-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Assassin's Creed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/assassinscreed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, gorgeous world that feels wholly alive.
 Fluid controls make it fun to run across city rooftops.
 Joyous mix of stealth, action, and platforming.
 Stunning sound design features fantastic voice acting and a beautiful musical score.
 Tons of small details will constantly amaze you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Confusing ending.
 A few small visual glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.3, 81 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 20,411 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Assassin's Creed is a beautiful and exciting experience that you'll remember for years to come. 
 

  Assassin's Creed will stay with you long after you finish it. Here is one of the most unique gameworlds 
 ever created: beautiful, memorable, and alive. Every crack and crevasse is filled with gorgeous, 
 subtle details, from astounding visual flourishes to overheard cries for help. But it's more than 
 just a world -- it's a fun and exciting action game with a ton of stuff to do and places to explore, 
 rounded out with silky-smooth controls and a complex story that will slowly grab you the more you 
 play. Make no mistake: Assassin's Creed is one of the best efforts of the year and a must-own game 
 for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owners.  

           The citizens of Damascus have a lot of secrets to hide.      

  Not enough can be said 
 about the living, breathing world that you'll inhabit in Assassin's Creed. As assassin extraordinaire 
 Altar, you'll explore three major cities of the Holy Land in the 12th century: Jerusalem, Damascus, 
 and Acre. Each city is beautifully rendered from top to bottom and features meticulously crafted 
 towers that reach for the sky, bustling market squares, and quiet corners where citizens converse 
 and drunks lie in wait to accost you. As you wander the streets (and rooftops) , you'll push your 
 way through crowds of women carrying jars on their heads, hear orators shout political and religious 
 wisdom, and watch town guards harass innocent victims. Altar has a profound effect on this world, 
 but the cities are entities all their own, with their own flows and personalities.  

  The visual design has a lot to do with how believably organic everything feels. The cities are 
 absolutely huge, and though you don't get full exploration privileges in the first few chapters, 
 they eventually open up to let you travel seamlessly from one side to another. Everything is beautifully 
 lit with just the right amount of bloom effect, and almost everything casts a shadow, from tall 
 pillars to Altar's cloak. In fact, sometimes the shadows get to be a bit much and may make you 
 think for a moment that there is artifacting on your screen, when in fact it's a character's head 
 casting a shadow on his or her own neck. Every object, from scaffolds to pottery, is textured so 
 finely you feel as if you could reach out and touch it. Animations are almost as equally well done. 
 Altar scales walls, leaps majestically from towers, and engages in swashbuckling swordfights that 
 would make Errol Flynn proud. And he does it all with fluid ease, generally moving from one pose 
 to another without a hitch. Minor characters move gracefully as well, though one of the game's 
 few visual drawbacks is the occasional jerky animation on the part of a citizen. However, it's 
 easy to forgive, considering that the cities are populated with thousands and thousands of individuals. 
 In fact, these tiny blemishes are noticeable only because everything else looks so incredible. 

  What you hear is even more impressive than what you see. At the top of a temple, you hear little 
 but the rush of wind, the twittering of birds, and the barking of a far-off dog. In the most populated 
 areas, your ears will fill with the din of street vendors, the pleas of beggars, and the occasional 
 humming. It's never too much, though, and the game does a good job of making sure you hear what 
 you need to hear (for example, the cries of citizens who need your help) , without filling your 
 ears with pointless noise. All these effects, along with the clangs of swords and groans of assassinated 
 foes, are outstanding. The voice acting of the supporting cast is similarly remarkable. Conversations 
 are completely believable and delivered with the perfect amount of solemn dignity. Oddly, the weakest 
 link is Altar himself. Actor Philip Shahbaz does an all right job, but he isn't up to par with 
 the first-rate acting of his fellow troupe. Rounding it all out is a beautiful orchestral score 
 that is most notable for its subtlety. Many of the game's most impressive moments are accompanied 
 by lovely musical themes that add even more threads to the game's rich living tapestry.  

           Climb to the pinnacle of a tower for a bird's-eye view.      

  Fortunately, the story 
 that binds it all together rises to the occasion. Actually, there are two related stories in play. 
 The unfolding drama of Crusades-era Palestine is a mere memory, forcibly pulled from a modern-day 
 bartender named Desmond by a resolute researcher using a machine called an animus. The memories 
 aren't Desmond's own -- they are Altar's, stored safely in the hapless subject's genetic code. We 
 follow Altar as he assassinates nine public figures at the command of his master, and as the common 
 thread that ties these men comes into focus, so does the true identity of Desmond's captors. There 
 are no cutscenes in the traditional sense; every bit of story exposition and dialogue flows smoothly 
 from the gameplay and takes place entirely within the game engine. The ending is confusing, and 
 it blatantly leaves open the possibility of a sequel, but it's a small blemish on an otherwise 
 stirring tale. Altar's world is not one of absolutes. His assassination targets aren't always 
 evil, and Altar isn't always likable. As he is fond of reminding us, "Nothing is true. Everything 
 is permitted."  

  Of course, such an authentic world would be meaningless without a lot of fun things to do in it. 
 Thankfully, Assassin's Creed is endlessly entertaining in that it features a fine mix of stealthy 
 exploration, tight platforming, and exciting combat. To discover the whereabouts of your assassination 
 targets, you must first follow up on possible leads. There are several different mission types 
 in this regard. In some cases, you sit on a bench and listen in on secret conversations. At other 
 times, you will closely follow someone carrying an important letter that you'll pickpocket. Alternately, 
 you can beat the information out of your target. Most missions are relatively easy to pull off 
 in the early stages of the game. But once the guards and townspeople start recognizing you (or 
 you alert them to your presence too close to the scene of one of your crimes) , they get a little 
 tougher.     

  There are also some optional tasks, such as rescuing innocent townspeople from the clutches of 
 guards. The reward for doing so is a group of vigilantes who will hang out in the area afterward 
 and hinder any foes chasing you. It's also a good way to try out Assassin's Creed's combat, which 
 is surprisingly satisfying, considering the game's focus on sneaking around. You can pounce on 
 enemies using your hidden blade (an incredibly rewarding one-stab kill) , or use throwing daggers 
 to take enemies down from a distance. However, your sword is your melee mainstay, and though the 
 hack-and-slash combat may seem simple at first, it gets more challenging once you unlock the various 
 countermoves. Often, you'll have a dozen or more attackers to fend off at once, but though these 
 fights can be a little tricky, you'll never feel as if you're in over your head. In fact, the few 
 circumstances in which you are forced into combat -- such as a late-game boss fight against a seemingly 
 endless crowd of attackers and their leering leader -- are challenging and require some pitch-perfect 
 timing to counter every strike and lunge.  

           Combat is a whole lot of bloody fun.      

  Nevertheless, brute force is rarely the 
 best way to handle a situation. You want to slink unnoticed through the crowds, but you can draw 
 attention to yourself in a number of ways -- whether it be galloping past a guard station on a horse, 
 knocking pottery off of someone's head, or getting so frustrated by the various beggars that you 
 fling them away from you. (And trust us -- these are the most aggressive panhandlers you'll ever 
 meet.) If you antagonize the guards, they'll give chase. Yes, you can stick around and fight, and 
 though it's never the easiest option, breaking stealth does not damn you to death like it does 
 in other sneaking games. But why not lure them to a rooftop? Once up there, you can grab them and 
 fling them to the street below. Or if there are too many of them, you can jump across the rooftops 
 gracefully until you find a hiding place, such as a nice bale of hay or a curtained garden. Once 
 you're hidden, they'll break chase and you'll be free to roam about.  

  You can also seek refuge in small groups of scholars who serve as mobile hiding places. It's a 
 bit contrived to walk into a stationary cluster of scholars and have them suddenly start moving 
 simply because you're there, but it gets the job done. Actually, if there's any drawback to the 
 usually excellent gameplay, it's how synthetic certain elements feel. Vigilantes are always in 
 the same spot, missions reset if you don't get them right the first time, and those same guards 
 will be harrassing that citizen, an hour after you pass by. It's easy to forgive these quirks though, 
 given the easygoing flow of the world surrounding these pockets of gameplay.  

  Climbing up buildings and jumping around the rooftops is fun and breezy, thanks to effortless controls 
 that strike a great balance between ease of use and player input. You can leap across alleys and 
 scale walls with the pull of a trigger and the press of a button, and though it's possible to launch 
 yourself from a wall or hurtle through a vendor's booth by accident, these moments aren't very 
 common. You'd think that a city specifically designed to let you climb structures and caper about 
 the roofs would look overly artificial, yet there's never a moment when you will think to yourself, 
 "Wow, that looks like a place where I'm supposed to jump." The architecture looks completely natural, 
 which makes Altar's abilities all the more exciting to pull off. The environments don't look as 
 if they were created for him to climb around on; he just uses the hand he's been dealt, as any 
 good assassin should.  

           Eavesdropping will reveal a wealth of information.      

  In Assassin's Creed, the 
 greatest joy comes from the smallest details, and for every nerve-racking battle, there's a quiet 
 moment that cuts to the game's heart and soul. Climbing towers to uncover portions of the map is 
 a simple mechanic but forever satisfying, thanks to the beautiful vistas and soft musical themes 
 that accompany the view. Even the drunks that pester you are amusing and fun, though their constant 
 shoving is more than annoying, especially if you are trying to pickpocket a pedestrian or eliminate 
 a target without a fuss. It all makes your missions that much more compelling, and you'll be inclined 
 to explore every nook and cranny and take on every optional task, just for the fun of it. There's 
 a ton of stuff to do, and even when you've exhausted your official tasks, you can search for the 
 collectible flags and crosses strewn around the cities and countryside. You could probably plow 
 through the main quest in 20 hours if you're lucky, but completists might spend close to 50 hours 
 finishing every quest and gathering every collectible.  

  There are few differences between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. PS3 owners are blessed 
 with a slightly more solid frame rate, although the 360 version features a little more contrast 
 in the lighting, so it's pretty much a wash. But regardless of which platform you go with, you'll 
 have an amazing and unforgettable game. Assassin's Creed is the kind of game you tell your friends 
 about, and one that should be in your collection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1779 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  this game made me feel like an elderly speedwalker, circling a middle ages mall early in the morning. 
 
  
  let me get this straight: i was thrilled for about 2.5 hours. the scenery - stunning. the amount 
 of hustle and bustle - citizenry galore - wow! and there the joy walk ended.
  
  walk, walk, hide, hide, lie low, elbow a dude to start something. this is THE game that made me 
 realize that some games get heaped with unending praise when they're really quite flawed, while 
 others (i suspect they haven't produced enough payola to the press) get panned unfairly. 
  
  as someone who enjoys a good, fast paced game, this became unbearably boring in a short amount 
 of time. i believe that it's a Canadian effort and was pleased for them, but come on - this was 
 not a top notch game. medieval snoozefest. i would have welcomed a stage that let me hunt a wild 
 boar, kill it with a stick, build a fire and watch it spit roast for 9 hours. maybe you could mash 
 the B button to Braise? at least i'd feel a sense of accomplishment.
  
  Summary: pretty, atmospheric, dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lusitano1318
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I first began following this game the day news about it started. I'm into history and especially 
 the time period of the Crusades so when I heard there was a game coming out about it, I had to 
 dig deeper. You play as an Assassin who is part of the brotherhood. However, your not just some 
 lowly foot soldier, you are the best of the best. You play as the greatest assassin the guild has 
 to offer and just watching the intro makes that obvious. When the trailer for this game came out 
 I knew I would have to buy it, without a doubt. How could you not be compelled to play a game with 
 the main character being a smart, sly, badass assassin who personally kills all the Templars in 
 the Holy Land?
  
  The gameplay it offers is astonishing. You can truly climb anything, no matter how tall. You can 
 jump of edges, leap across a market place and grab onto a ledge. You can run from beam to beam, 
 swing off poles, and hide in a pile of hay. The graphics are simply stunning, being by far some 
 of the best I have ever seen. The voice acting is well done and the movements of characters are 
 realistic. The combat system is fun and stylish and the weapons are well used. I believe that this 
 game's story is the factor that makes you come back for more. All of your targets have a story 
 and a motive, and I found myself playing ahead just to find out the link between all the men and 
 what truly is their greater purpose. The story becomes more intense as it progresses and the twists 
 are shocking and well done. Throughout the story you see as your character progresses and changes 
 into a better person. He becomes more humble and modest and in doing so, becomes even more powerful. 
 I noticed the change in the tone of his voice and in the words he chose. I grew an attachment to 
 him and his well being and I just wanted to learn more.
  
  Many people complain about this game being repetitive but it is only as repetitive as you make 
 it. I have a feeling that the people who say this are the people that don't listen to the dialog 
 or understand what is going on in the story. Every submission has a different story and you learn 
 something new about the target, people of the city, or even the city itself in doing these. They 
 also complained about the fighting system, saying it was too easy. It may have been a bit on the 
 easy side but as the game progressed, the use of counter attacks no longer killed the enemies, 
 it just knocked them to the floor. I personally enjoyed the battle system very much. With each 
 swing in the sword I could feel the emotion and intensity the character felt. The animations were 
 very well done with the strength of the assassin showing.
  
  Overall, I believe this game was truly remarkable. I now find myself waiting for news on a sequel. 
 I believe that this game offers something to everyone that enjoys platforming in a middle age city 
 while fighting off hoards of guards. Nonetheless, this game will go always be remembered and will 
 go down into history as being innovative and a truly great experience. This is one to definitely 
 have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: In_Chaos
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  "Use the Leap Of Faith to land safely."
  You used to be an normal guy, but a crazy company discovers you were in a past life a assassin, 
 and now, they use a machine named ANIMUS to you revive those memories of past! They wanna know 
 about a lost memory they don't have how to access it.
  The pioneer in this game style, Assassin's Creed leaves you to the highest places in diferent towns 
 to do a bunch of secondary missions, like visit Viewpoints, save Citizens, discover flags, KILL 
 WITHOUT BE NOTICED, assassinate peoples who know informations could used to injury your allies, 
 beyond discover the truth behind your creed.
  If you need a reason to buy an 360 or PS3, the gameplay of this game is the answer you need!
 
  Check it out TODAY!
  "I see you killing me.
  You see what I want you to see, Altair" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longcat2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Play as an assassin and uncover a conspiracy as you travel through the immersive Holy Land fulfilling 
 your mission. The main character Altair, whilst his voice acting is very off (he has an American 
 accent whilst everyone else in the game has middle eastern) he is still a very likeable character. 
 He is your typical badass and is a member of the Assassin's Brotherhood. His master Al Mualim orders 
 him to kill 9 people who are corrupting the Holy Land and committing misdeeds. 
  
  The game is an original tale, with an excellent plotline. The setting in Jerusalem, Damascus and 
 Acre make for an unique atmosphere. The graphics in the game really are spectacular, and the sand-box 
 style game allows you to travel across the entire land. Travel from poor ghettos to huge castles, 
 through open land. This game could really be described as a Legend of Zelda game.
  
  There are plenty of side missions to keep you occupied and a lot of new areas to explore as you 
 go along. One criticism is the repetition of the game, but that barely gets in the way, and besides 
 its fun slashing heaps of guards. You're in for a 20-30 hour game assuming you do all the side 
 missions. This game is definitely worth getting, if you own any of the consoles it's been released 
 on. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Presentation: Assassin's Creed is one of Ubisoft best games of course there are many other but 
 this one game is different it combines a stealth game/Action/Adventure/Sandbox and really it makes 
 a great story now the story is about an Assassin known as Altair and he deprived of his master 
 Assassin rank because he did not follow the rules of the Assassin's Creed so the master of these 
 Assassin's stabs the main character but when he makes up he finds out that he isn't dead, he appeared 
 to be dead but the master tells him otherwise thus the story begins and the Master sends him off 
 to kill 9 major leaders. Then the story begins to unfold. There are 3 main weapons at your disposal 
 a sword, hidden blade, and throwing knives/Short blade, All these weapons are effective in combat 
 at first the fighting gets a little getting use to type but once you nail it you will be a pro.
 
  
  Graphics: This game is gorgeous and when I say that I mean it everything in the environment has 
 details to all the people, landscapes, and so much more if you have a HDTV you are a very lucky 
 person.
  
  Sound: Overall the sound quality is superb from slicing people throats off to just jumping off 
 a roof later landing in some hay its all the small things that really tell you how good the sound 
 is.
  
  Gameplay: Overall the game runs smoothly, there is nothing that gets too hard or to easy although 
 sometimes I had problems with the sprint and jumping especially on rooftops and also some Assassinations 
 get difficult with these problems.
  
  Lasting Appeal: Overall this is a game that you have to play it is just amazing but really if your 
 not hardcore and just want to past the story I suggest you just rent it because once you play through 
 once there's really not much playability but it is fun kill kill kill haha
  
  I give this a SOLID 9 out of 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent fast paced combat system, The Animus, brilliant characterization, brilliant 
 setting, clever well thought out story sure to please, leaping from building to building is awesome, 
 environment looks alive, easy to catch on to the controls, beautiful environment like no other 
 game I have ever scene, outstanding visual design, awesome original soundtrack, sound effects.
 
  
  Two people, two storys, one legendary experience to last a lifetime. If your looking for that one 
 addictive/awesome game Assassin's Creed is no doubt that game. You take on two roles in the game, 
 1 you play a former assassin that has been kidnapped by a mad scientist, 2 you take on a every 
 day assassin in the 12th century. What's cool is that the two timelines is in sync with each other, 
 I've never scene a game like this before. What sold me on this game was the story, I love story, 
 the more story the better, the story is all the pillers of the game, if the story was just a little 
 bit underdone than it is now it would have sucked. Everything works together in Assassin's Creed 
 to make a legendary experience that you won't forget which is one of the pluses of the game. No 
 matter what kind of gamer you are, who you are no doubt you'll enjoy Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrischamp
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I purchased this game way after the release and the hype. I bought this game unbiased 
 by trailers, and was nothing short of impressed. The attention to detail in this game is stunning, 
 and it holds up graphically against new games made 2 years later. The flawless movements of every 
 character make the game easy to enjoy, and make it fun to perform different actions that may seem 
 menial in different games (ie. climbing buildings which is great, or simply stealth stabbing someone) . 
 The cutscenes you get to see once you earn the use of counter moves are impeccable, as it seems 
 as though every possible action for every possible scenario has been taken into account for this 
 game. The gameplay makes the game, but the details complete it.
  
  Starting out in the game, you are an experienced assassin who is forced to start from scratch, 
 conveniently enough. As you play though the game, you continue to gather more information and more 
 targets. Through different investigations you gather information about your targets, until you 
 have enough data to go through with the assassination. Though the lack of investigation types makes 
 the gameplay a little repetitive, it is still fun to progress through the game's story.
  
  That being said, there is more to do than just follow the story and kill major people. Not as much 
 as would make the game truly exceptional, but there are options. While in the sections of cities 
 you are permitted in during various phases of the game, you can opt to do more than the needed 
 amount of work needed before the assassination. You can (if you choose to) save citizens who are 
 being harassed, climb all the viewpoints you can reach (which provides a stunning view of the city, 
 landscape, countryside etc.) , or collect as many flags which are hidden around the world as you 
 can find. This task seems menial and impossible at first, as there are hundreds of flags in each 
 category (some are for within a specific city for example) , but while completing the story you 
 will gather more than you would think you would, which makes you spend a bit more time hunting 
 for the rest to complete your collection. You unfortunately don't gain any gameplay extras by collecting 
 all the flags, only self satisfaction and an xbox achievement if you are playing on the xbox. you 
 can also opt to roam around the land hunting for templars, knights you wan tto kill, who again 
 don't give you much other than inner chi. For those not into collecting almost useless items, it 
 is nothing short of amusing to just wander around the living breathing city. The great controls 
 make it fun just to jump around rooftops and climb buildings, which you will undoubtedly find yourself 
 doing eventually.
  
  The story in this game is nothing to run away from, as is the case in many other adventure games. 
 I was quickly intrigued by the storyline, which is helped along by the spot-on voice acting (other 
 than the American accent of the Arab main character) . This really makes it seem like every person 
 you meet is unique, and makes the game even more amazing to play. 
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is an exceptional game that is a classic for any system you play it on. 
 Though the repetitiveness of missions is a downfall, the beauty and quality of the game make up 
 for any disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  This games mechanics should be a standard for some Non-Linear games in the future, the free roam 
 aspect in the game is great, allowing the player; walk, run, or take a horse to his destinations, 
 this game allows the player to break away from that straight line combat and explore the entire 
 environment that the game developers worked so hard polishing and creating for each gamer. 
  Also the the fight mechanics are great, they really slowed down to allow for a more realistic version 
 of combat, not swinging wildly in hopes to strike down your opponent, but instead they focus on 
 timing and planning out your strikes to take each down one after the other.
  As well being able to climb any ledge wider than a couple of inches makes it great, this game allows 
 the player to be as creative as possible, I am definitely excited for the second one to come out, 
 and hopefully more games will follow with this style to come in the future 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wl11lam360
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:36 am PT
Review:  I was'nt planning on getting this game, but when I saw it in HMV for 20 I got it. People said 
 it was a really good game, but that was a long time ago. It was already an Xbox classic by the 
 time I got it.
  I got it home and was able to do through the story fairly quickly, I have almost completed it. 
 The only reason I put it as hard is the horribly frustrating guards the hide spots and the assassinations 
 in cramped areas really get me annoyed. But the free running is really good and its oh so atmospheric 
 that you cant dislike this game at all.
  I think this game would be even better if it had more rpg elements in it, like a customisable character. 
 Something I hope to see in assassins creed 2.
  But one thing in this game is quite unrealistic though, a Muslim has an American accent!? Get it 
 right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix0003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  My brother played the first half of this game, and then I beat the last half. Perhaps this is why 
 I did not encounter the extreme repetitiveness of Assassin's Creed that I have heard so much about. 
 I can easily see how people can compare this game as if they were checking off their chores list, 
 but I had a great time playing this game.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a great looking game and fun to play. At times I truly felt like a badass in 
 the game. Once you get the controls down, you can start taking on 10 to 20 guys at once, and to 
 defeat all of them is a very satisfying feeling. There are three or four huge cities to explore. 
 It is a cool feeling to climb up buildings and view the world from such a high destination. 
  
  The story in Assassin's Creed is good, but could have been presented better. One will be able 
 to understand the gist of the game, but it felt like the story builds up slow, only to really pick 
 up speed towards the end of the game. Everything seems to hit the player all at once, and one is 
 left with the "what the?" feeling. But even though many people felt as if the ending was too much 
 of a cliffhanger I thought it was appropriate and a good place to end the game at. Can't wait to 
 see what Ubisoft has done with Assassin's Creed 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanOwns1207
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this simple.
  
  The Good: The first 45 minutes are pretty fun, climbing is pretty cool, graphics are pretty good
 
  
  The Bad: The other nine hours, EXTREMELY REPETITIVE, very easy, can't skip cinematics, cinematics 
 are boring, there is a cinematic like every two minutes and they are like three minutes long, storyline 
 is hard to follow and really stupid if you actually look up a plot synopsis, you are not actually 
 an assassin (you go back in time to be your grandpa or something) , nothing new after the first 
 45 minutes, retarded AI (like seriously you can kill someone right next to his friend and they 
 willnot even notice) , no reward for being stealthy and assassin-like, much more rewarding if you 
 just run through and kill about a billion retard-guards, everyone looks the same, annoying people 
 who push you around for no reason, listening to the same cinematic over and over, combat is heavily 
 flawed, button mashing is the easiest way to win, you can kill like thirty guards with your eyes 
 closed or use a rubberband to hold down your R-button while you wait for the guards to die (swear 
 to god i did both of those) , deja vu happens constantly it is so damn repetitive
  
  The Bottom Line: Do not buy this game, even if you find it used for 15 dollars like I did (unless 
 you are a masochist or are in some weird cult where you like to inflict pain and frustration on 
 yourself with repetition) . It might be worth a rent but I wouldn't waste my time. You will regret 
 buying this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joker_cliq
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the best games I've ever played. But that doesn't mean that the game 
 doesn't have a lot of gameplay bugs.
  The good of this game is, in the first place the level or graphical detail (it's the first thing 
 that hits you when you start the game) . But the game is revolutionary from one point of view, you 
 can climb on anything, and when I say anything, I mean anything. It's not like the other games, 
 when can climb only on the highlighted objects. Also the storyline is pretty strong and it makes 
 the game easily addictive.
  The bad part of the game are the game play bugs. Especially when you are fighting some soldiers 
 and you can't see what you're doing because of the camera. The game gets repetitive at some point 
 but it doesn't stress you out.
  In a few words this game is one of the best I've ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aversqaz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  This games mechanics should be a standard for some Non-Linear games in the future, the free roam 
 aspect in the game is great, allowing the player; walk, run, or take a horse to his destinations, 
 this game allows the player to break away from that straight line combat and explore the entire 
 environment that the game developers worked so hard polishing and creating for each gamer. 
  Also the the fight mechanics are great, they really slowed down to allow for a more realistic version 
 of combat, not swinging wildly in hopes to strike down your opponent, but instead they focus on 
 timing and planning out your strikes to take each down one after the other.
  As well being able to climb any ledge wider than a couple of inches makes it great, this game allows 
 the player to be as creative as possible, I am definitely excited for the second one to come out, 
 and hopefully more games will follow with this style to come in the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mf29
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 4:15 am PT
Review:  From first glimpse of the screenshots and game cover, you wouldn't expect that the character all 
 over the advertisements for the game is actually only a mere memory and an ancestral construct 
 of Desmond Miles, a typical bartender who is oblivious to his lineage. A select few times in the 
 game, you will be able to wander around the laboratory as modern-day muck up of Altair. You are 
 only able to walk while outside of the Animus, considering that all of the central gameplay takes 
 place in Desmond's time in the Animus device.
  
  The game Assassin's Creed bases itself on extremely conspicuously recurring but enjoying gameplay 
 elements. The game is a sand-box action adventure experience where only a handful of actions can 
 be committed. Basically as Altair the Assassin, your duty will be to follow the orders of Hassan-i 
 Sabbah, over and over without lead. His orders are for the most part non-negotiable. After a major 
 plot point in the beginning all of your weapons and abilities are taken away from you, as a temporary 
 demotion. So by the end of the game, you will eventually have had already gained everything you 
 lost in the start of the story.
  
  As an Assassin you wield a one-handed sword, knives that can be thrown, a knife that can be distended 
 from your special swiss-army knife like gauntlet, and your petty fists. So, in-between missions, 
 ninety percent of the time, this is what you will be doing. There is a map that has various icons 
 that indicate which missions are present. There are viewpoints scattered all across different districts 
 of cities. The purpose of these randomly placed viewpoints is to allow you to climb them, and look 
 upon the area or city around it. What this does is, it discovers new missions to complete. So ordinarily 
 your map will be empty until you activate a viewpoint.
  
  Each major story element is in a form of a DNA strand, as a presentation to correlate to the ancestral 
 point of the game. They are separated as Memory Blocks in the Animus device. As a regular modern-day 
 human, you will lye down upon it, and there is a visual hologram that contains several different 
 Memory Blocks. Only so many missions are required to unlock the next Memory Block. Each mission 
 is actually a single strand of the DNA resembling Memory Block, not all strands need to be filled, 
 but that's up to the player and if he or she wishes to complete a Memory Block fully.
  
  Masyaf is your home town, your kin is located there, and basically, no missions take place there. 
 You can however, accept missions from your master, and practice in the tutorial lounge, to ostentatiously 
 display your swordmanship. Masyaf is the central portal to all other cities. Each city has a different 
 district. They are separated by working class, Rich, Poor, and Middle district. You can ride horses 
 easily as a form of transformation in-between different cities. Horses are not allowed inside cities, 
 however.
  
  There are two icons on maps that aren't missions. Scholars, whom of which are a four man group 
 of scholars who slowly stride throughout town. The purpose of these guys is to help you get past 
 guards. You can walk in-between them at their pace, and you can copy their mannerisms to blend 
 in. The second are the Mercenaries. The Mercenaries are a form of citizens that help you escape 
 or face guards. The more citizens you save from guards, the more Mercenary groups that will be 
 around town to help you.
  
  In each Memory Block the process is as follows. Visit the Assassin's Bureau, which is a small room, 
 and there is only one located in each district of each city. In the Bureau, there will be a man 
 to assist you in the mission at hand. Upon encounter, you will witness an in-game cutscene. After 
 this cutscene, missions will be placed across the map. They include; "Save a Citizen", "Viewpoint", 
 "Pickpocket", "Interrogate", "Information", and "Eavesdrop". I'll explain the missions that aren't 
 self explanatory. The "Information" missions are those of which, are comprised of talking to some 
 type of nomad, he will make you do a miscellaneous selfish mission to give you information regarding 
 your task. The missions can range to collecting flags, and silent assassinations. After all of 
 these minor missions are completed, your health capacity will sometimes increase an, your major 
 Assassination mission will be available for you to complete.
  
  All cities are structured the same. They all contain a seemingly infinite amount of guards. You 
 being an Assassin, catches their attention easily. Your synchronization bar contains your health 
 capacity, and your status with the law. A yellow eye indicates that the guards are watching you, 
 a red eye indicates that you have done something wrong, and that the guards have suspected you. 
 Once the guards unfortunately discover your misdemeanor, they chase you until you manage to escape 
 successfully. There are safe hiding spots laid out around the map, and they can only be hid in, 
 if your status indicates color yellow. You have the choice to fight them, which is less of a hassle 
 once you gain the ability to counter attack.
  
  Aside from the relentless always watching guards, the townsfolk are as fairly unlikable. When you 
 climb buildings, which are readily easy, they often make scolding comments about it. Also, you'll 
 be harassed and chased by needy townsfolk who need money. The climbing system is extraordinary. 
 Nearly anything can be climbed and grasped. You can simply run towards a wall, and Altiar will 
 run up and grasp whatever object is sticking out from the wall. He can scale walls, walk upon skinny 
 foot boards, and can climb just about anything on a wall if it's sticking out in any form or fashion. 
 The speed at which this is done is also realistically animated. He jumps automatically across gaps, 
 and will only lose so much health if he misses a ledge or a platform.
  
  - Saving the Citizen
  There is a problem with this mission. Sometimes when trying to save the 
 citizen, he or she runs away from the fight. After you are done killing off the bullying guards 
 you find out that the citizen is nowhere to be found, and if you chase he or she down, you cannot 
 talk to them. So, you'll sometimes end up having to leave the "Save the Citizen" target, and return 
 shorty thereafter when the game decides to re-spawn the victim citizen and guards. Also, for some 
 illogical reason you can even walk towards the guards that are picking on the victim, without targeting 
 them or having your weapon unsheathed, and they will still automatically start fighting. I find 
 it irrational that my synchronization bar tends to turn to a red color, when I'm not even the one 
 that provoked combat.
  
  - Informer
  I had a personal debacle with the one informer that shows up each time. He insultingly and sarcastically 
 acknowledges my presence and then demands that I fulfill one of his own selfish missions for two 
 sentences of information that I could generally do without. The flag collecting isn't so bad, but 
 the silent assassinations are just asinine scenarios at times. When tracking down your victims, 
 the guards will for no apparent reason, recognize you, when you haven't even perpetrated anything. 
 You can blend in to avoid attention, but when I do this he walks extremely slow, so I cannot chase 
 a person that I want to kill in blend mode. If I get detected by a guard the mission is automatically 
 disbanded, that's very aggravating and frustrating, this crud is unacceptable.
  
  - Casual Walking
  I can't even casually walk around town and see the sights that there are to 
 see without some jackfool guard breathing down my neck because they have no one else to pursue. 
 If I even walk close to a guard, they sometimes get the abrupt desire to kill me just for my existence. 
 It doesn't make sense to me, on account of how guards pursue me and fight me when I'm walking around 
 town, whistling, while singing Beatles tunes.
  
  - Horse Riding
  I really never understood this. The game states that in order to get around guards while on horseback, 
 is to, trot slowly. What I am I doing wrong by galloping?
  
  - Retards
  I assassinate any retard that decides to push me on sight in the middle of the town. This is heavily 
 irritating. Especially when trying to escape the guards. They push me, and it takes so long for 
 Altiar to recover from his stumble. Then, when you actually kill them the game faults you for doing 
 so, as if they are giving retarded citizens an excuse for their rude behavior.
  
  - Beggars
  I also like to assassinate beggars, who get the audacity to chase me and harass me 
 for money that I couldn't give them even if I wanted to. This is even more upbraiding when there 
 are more than two beggars all over your genitalia for money, when you're on a mission or when you 
 are trying to escape from guards.
  
  While in the city, you have high and low profile. Low profile actions are "low profile", which 
 are stealth-like and sly. High profile actions are obvious, abrasive, rude and gruesome. Holding 
 the High profile button while running will make you run even faster. Apply this to everything else, 
 weaponry, and personal gestures. Within crowds, you can hold a button to courteously move people 
 aside without upbraiding them. More actions can be gained as the story progresses. The climbing 
 system is generally the forgiving quality in the game for its exponential repetitive nature. If 
 I said anymore I would be spoiling at this point.
  
  With so little said, there is some content and stuff, I have not revealed. Assassin's Creed's graphics 
 are "good" for it's time of release. The soundtrack is groundbreaking, also along with the well 
 created glitchy sequence sound effects. The voice acting is well done. Altiar has a surprisingly 
 straightforward personality type, and this is even intensified by the cinema dramatic voice work. 
 Here is yet another warning, the gameplay exuberantly repetitive beyond occasional belief, but 
 the platforming, climbing, swordplay, and acrobatics is what balances that out for the better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antidon2000
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  Early on I was really looking forward to playing Assassin's Creed because I love a good stealth 
 game that has a kick ass protagonist. The idea of being an assassin who does contract killings 
 and is super good at it was very intriguing. Sadly, this is not the game I was so looking forward 
 to. In fact this game is falls flat in disappointment.
  
  The game had everything going for it because Ubisoft, which has made many great games in the past, 
 developed it. I love the Splinter Cell series and the early Prince of Persia games were really 
 fun so I can't see why this game turned out so wrong. The game had all these set ups to draw in 
 gamers but the result turned out to be very shallow.
  
  The whole thing about wall climbing and jumping from building to building was pretty much the only 
 thing done properly. Being able to climb onto any roof and jump from one wall to another was fun 
 but like everything else in the game it got boring really fast. There is nothing in this game that 
 wasn't overly repetitive and too easy. I like the idea a being this super assassin but when I'm 
 able to kill every guard in the city I just rolled my eyes. The combat mechanics were very easy 
 to do and made killing one hundred guards a total cheese walk.
  
  What I mean by repetitive is that in each city I had to do the same task over and over again. The 
 game hyped about having each individual being unique and having a variety of methods for stealth. 
 Trust me that is a total lie. Having to scout like ten buildings to get the eagle eye view for 
 the map got really annoying. Walking around the city I was constantly being stopped by the same 
 lady asking for money and being pushed around by drunks. You would think there would be dozens 
 of ways to hide from guards when being chased and not just having only three or four options. Those 
 should have only a few of the many options to choose from. The same thing went for the people as 
 well. The drunks (whom I killed many times) and the beggar lady (whom I pushed many times) , again, 
 should have only been a few of the many people I should encounter and not the only ones.
  
  Having to save like twenty civilians in each city got very tiring in a very bad way. I can't stress 
 enough on how stupidly repetitive this game is. The characters and the story were no help either. 
 All characters were shallow and the story felt uninspired if that makes any sense. Believe it or 
 not, the part of the game I actually enjoyed the most was when I was playing Desmond and talking 
 with Lucy. Okay now that's really sad that i like the boring stuff better than the actual game.
 
  
  The only credit I give to this game is that it looks good. Not the character models but the environment 
 with the look of the cities and the valleys. This game does not deserve the score Gamespot gave 
 it and I can't help but wonder if Ubisoft had their hands in the scoring. This game is worth a 
 rental at the very least.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supardood
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:27 am PT
Review:  To call Assassin's Creed an incredible game would be a huge understatement. It's a solid and thoroughly 
 enjoyable gaming experience. The gameplay itself is a blast; the game's platforming is entertaining 
 and challenging, keeping you on the edge of your seat as you fly across rooftops and city streets, 
 climbing up towers and running along narrow ledges. The combat is built on a simple but elegant 
 formula, and the game runs excellently. The 'hide-and-seek' elements of investigation call for 
 some quick actions and resourceful thinking. But the developers didn't stop there. The game also 
 boasts breathtaking graphics and immersive sound, plunging you into a lush world filled with detail. 
 People talk as they carry their goods, guards shout, birds chirp in the trees, and the whole game 
 surrounds you with life.
  
  Finally, the real gold in the game is its story. The gameplay revolves around a suspenseful and 
 intelligent storyline reminiscent of a Dan Brown novel. The characters and events are subtle but 
 profound, and lead up to an epic and intriguing ending which leaves you hungry for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0oMAGIKo0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the most amazing game for the 360, let me tell you why....
  Without giving too much away the beginning may seem a little bit odd but trust me this game is 
 as good as it looks (and it looks hot) the graphics are superb the game play plays smooth and easily, 
 counter attacks feel perfectly done and the game sucks you in with its fantastic story line... whats 
 not to like? the game is based in crusader times in the jerusalem area, You play an assassin who 
 is given contracts to kill many medieval folk, you unlock new weapons as you progress through the 
 game and gain achievements for doing various deeds. Key Features: Well you get to use horses and 
 mounted combat, Counter attacks are incredibly fun, Jumping from hights into haystacks is also 
 just done fantasticly and being able to walk around medieval citys and take on several guards with 
 a few swishes of your sword gives a feeling of power to the game.. all in all this game is a must 
 buy and anything below 9/10 is obviously a bad review so trust me i know what my fellow gamers 
 want, and this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:40 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game actually 'set' in the future, following the capture of a guy who is 
 taken to a lab of sorts so that white coat scientists can force him to relive the memories of one 
 of his ancestors. His ancestor is a ruthless Assassin named Altair, living in the year 1191 during 
 the third crusade in the Holy Land, and this is where you'll be spending 99% of the game. The setting 
 is actually a really good one, as you'll be playing mostly in a timeframe completely untouched 
 in video games so far. The game serves up some vast and beautiful places to explore, and an interesting 
 and thought-provoking story, which may even cause you to see certain things a little differently, 
 and raises some interesting questions. It also has Prince Of Persia type mechanics for climbing 
 and jumping across rooftops.
  
  The gameplay in Assassin's Creed is awesome when you're doing assassinations, and engaging in sword 
 fights. There's a quick kill system implemented so you can creep up behind people and stab them 
 in the back and then disappear into the crowds, which works great, and the sword fighting is also 
 implemented well enough that you can take on 10 guys single-handedly and win with enough practise. 
 So you can play these sections whichever way you feel like; and this is coupled with the cities 
 in the game being huge, which makes for some refreshing and non-linear gameplay. You are given 
 9 targets over the course of the game, but that will probably be far from the amount of people 
 you will end up killing. Assassin's Creed advertises itself as a stealth game, and it certainly 
 CAN be a stealth game, but it's almost like a hindrance if you do play the game stealthily. Although 
 creeping up on a target and stabbing him in the back feels rewarding, and is likely going to be 
 easier than running into there and chopping everyone up; once you've done that everyone knows what's 
 happened anyway and the game descends into bloody chaos as you slice guards and climb up walls 
 to get out of there. This makes the stealth you took all that effort to do feel a bit dry in the 
 end. You will also likely stealth-kill a number of guards on your way into the area, and likely 
 be seen at least once and trigger an alert, which makes the stealth style of gameplay feel a bit 
 too difficult to pull off flawlessly to really bother with all the time.
  
  The sword fighting combat is great fun, and there are a number of 'fatality' moves you can pull 
 off if you time it right when an enemy swings to attack, which are satisfyingly violent. You feel 
 very powerful when sword fighting, because you can take on dozens of enemies at once and leave 
 without a scratch if you're good enough. Guards will even run away in terror if you kill all their 
 buddies! It does take some time to master though, and the general controls (not just combat) may 
 feel a little overwhelming at first, and during a hectic fight they can become a little cumbersome 
 even once you get used to them.
  
  Another problem with the gameplay in Assassin's Creed is that you have to do so many mundane little 
 things before the game allows you to proceed to your next assassination. For a start, you have 
 to ride on horseback from your assassin 'base' and then chose a city, and if you've never been 
 to a city yet, you have to ride all the way there too. Then you have to sneak into the city. Then 
 you have scope out the locations of some repetitive and irritating side quests for various people. 
 Then you have to DO the repetitive side quests once you've found them, and only then can you finally 
 go after your target. Each time, this will suck up about an hour of your play time before you're 
 even allowed to go after your target. It's just a lengthening tactic which is completely fake, 
 and twice as many assassinations in the place of these side missions would have made it a much 
 better experience for me.
  
  Lastly on the subject of gameplay; there is a very uninspired boss fight at the end, which felt 
 pretty unbelievable and lame. There's hundreds of un-skippable cutscenes too. Very annoying.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a gorgeous game. The three cities and surrounding landscape are meticulously 
 detailed, huge, and occupied by thousands of civilians. The whole thing is rendered with literally 
 stunning lighting and shadows which at times can look almost real. Climbing and jumping across 
 buildings is smooth and fun, and the architecture looks completely natural; nothing looks like 
 it was made specifically for your character to climb all over.
  
  The game has some really memorable music, voice acting and other sound effects. The musical score 
 is produced by Jesper Kyd (of course) , and as usual he presents us with a beautiful musical score 
 which fits the environment and setting perfectly, immersing you deeply in the experience. All the 
 voice acting is great without a single amateur in the lot, though Altair's accent doesn't exactly 
 sound right for the year and location (in other words, he sounds suspiciously like a modern day 
 American.)
  
  Assassin's Creed is a great idea with some annoying flaws, which are almost exclusively in its 
 gameplay. I can't help but think that without the endless trudging around and crappy side quests 
 we could have had a really superb game on our hands. As it stands, Assassin's Creed is good, and 
 I'm glad they're working on a sequel. The story is compelling, the core combat is mostly great 
 fun, and the games main areas feel gorgeous and alive. If they can work on these positive points 
 on the game to make them even better, and get rid of the bone-headed gameplay decisions, Assassin's 
 Creed 2 has the potential to be something truly special.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, my reaction was something like this: "Holy sh*t! This game 
 is so cool!" The flashy moves, the semi open-world style, the spectacular visuals and concept of 
 the game had stunned me. So much so, that after playing this game for about an hour, I went on 
 to call this the greatest title I had ever come across in a long time. 
  
  Anybody would say that. After all, there were so many new stealthy or in-your-face flashy moves 
 to perform, an all new control scheme, stunning visuals, and a story that seemed to be one of the 
 best ever for any game (in the beginning, at least) . But as I played on, I found out that this 
 game wasn't all that I was making it out to be. It was not the perfect flashy and breathtaking 
 title I thought it was. In fact, it was quite disappointing.
  
  Once I beat the game (it wouldn't take a lot of skill to do that, trust me. The AI is so dumb. 
 But more of that later) , I realized that this game was repetitive, glitchy and downright boring. 
 The things I had initially come to love were the only things that the game offered. You would initially 
 be awe-struck by the awesome gameplay style, the concept, the assassination style, the open world 
 of this game but later on, those very thing turn out to be downright irritating, repetitive and 
 boring.
  
  There's a new control scheme for Assassin's Creed. It's rather different. You have one face button 
 for different body parts of Altair. One for the head, one for the legs, for the hands and so on. 
 Each task requires you to use one of these buttons. If you want to look around, use the head button. 
 If you want to use your sword, use your right hand. If you want to leap from building to building, 
 use the legs button. 
  
  The context-sensitive actions can be changed by holding down a trigger to switch from stealth mode 
 to high profile mode. This can change the way you kill somebody. For example, if you're in stealth 
 mode, then the assassination of the guard would be quick and stealthy and if you are in high profile 
 mode, then you might make a loud leap and cut the guard's throat with your knife.
  
  One of the only good things about Assassin's Creed is running along rooftops and scaling buildings. 
 To run along rooftop, you just have to hold down the legs button and we automatically keep running 
 and jumping. Whereas this sounds very boring, its quite fun. To scale buildings, you use the same 
 controls as running along roofs, only this time, you use the analog stick to control your hands. 
 The great thing is that the easiness of scaling buildings depends on their architecture. You have 
 to look for cracks and wall ornaments that offer a good foothold. Grab anything that look like 
 it can be grabbed an climb further upward. 
  
  Getting vertical is the best part of this game. You're rewarded when you find View Points. In these 
 key locations (which are abundant in every city) , you gain a panoramic view over the city. It's 
 breathtaking, to say the least.
  
  The View Point are of other use too. The can be used to spot people of interest, when on an assassination 
 mission. 
  
  To make for a successful assassination, you must first gather information on your target. There 
 are a half-dozen people to investigate for each assassination. You are required to investigate 
 at least three of them for most assassinations. 
  
  There are less than a handful of mini-quests possible for an investigation. You may be asked to 
 pickpocket in which you have to walk up to the target and hold down your "empty hand" button without 
 being noticed, or eavesdrop in which you have to sit on a bench and hit the "head" button to listen 
 to a conversation, or interrogate a suspect for which you have to beat them up until they talk, 
 or speak with an informant, who will have you either assassinate a citizen or a guard or have you 
 run a flag-collecting race. 
  
  The more investigations you perform, the more information you have about your target. For some 
 time, undergoing these extremely simple investigations isn't all that bad. But later on, it becomes 
 so repetitive and boring that you want to scream, pull out your hair and throw the remote away. 
 
  
  The same goes for all the main assassinations. At first, you may be awe-struck at the awesome assassinations, 
 which require you to pull off a stealthy move or an in-your-face move. But later on, doing the 
 same things over and over again becomes highly tedious and more of a chore than a mission.
  
  Before every assassination, there is a cutscene in which our targets always turn out to be 
 badass politicians. After assassinating your target, you have to watch a prolonged cutscene, in 
 which Altair talks to his target. And all of them say the same thing: you're being tricked, though 
 not necessarily in as many words. Once, you assassinate your target, the guards of the city become 
 aware of your presence. They chase you through the town. The best option is to find some elevation 
 and do some rooftop free-running. Your goal is the local Assassin's Bureau, which can't be entered 
 while you are being chased. So on your way to the Bureau, you must loose the guards. To do this, 
 you need to break their line of sight and then hide in one of the city's many conveniently-placed 
 piles of hay. Guards are persistent, especially when the city is on the alert. They climb ladders, 
 hop up on roofs, throw rocks and shoot arrows when you are too far to catch. But they are never 
 too difficult to ditch. 
  
  These chases happen at other points in Assassin's Creed away from the main assassinations. You 
 are free to do as you please in the city, even take out every guard you pass, but you generally 
 don't want to. In the upper left corner of the screen is a helpful meter showing the awareness 
 of guards in the city. White means they are unaware of your presence, yellow indicates they are 
 suspicious, and red shows when the guards are alerted. Much like the wanted system of GTA. As the 
 awareness meter moves from white to red, it takes fewer actions to tip the guards off to your location 
 and give them reason to fight or give chase. This can get annoying in the later parts of Assassin's 
 Creed, as you are often forced to move very slowly to get from one end of town to the other without 
 being spotted. 
  
  But not being stealthy is much more easier. The AI is really, really dumb. All you have to do and 
 run along rooftops. If the guards spot you, then they'll raise their sword and just stand there 
 foolishly and warn you that you're not supposed to be there. You can just throw your knife at one 
 of the guards (the others just keep staring) or you can drop off the edge of the roof. The guards 
 do nothing. They don't alert the other guards. They don't even care to look down to see if I'm 
 gone or if I'm still hanging from the roof. So all you gotta do then is wait till the guard turns 
 around ans stick a knife in his throat.
  
  The AI remains the same even when you assassinate someone of high importance. 
  
  All that 
 I've written above about the gameplay is not just about one level of the game. Neither is it spread 
 out properly throughout the game. All of this happens over and over again in each and every level. 
 This is all you have to do in each and every level. This makes each level quite much the same. 
 
  
  The graphics of the game, though stunning to look at, have a few texture pop ins and many frame-rate 
 issues. Even though the frame-rate issues are pesky annoyances in the beginning of all levels, 
 later on, they turn out to be very irritating major hindrances.
  
  The sound is bad. Sometimes, there's no soundtrack at all. Maybe to make the game more atmospheric. 
 But they failed at even that. The game is not atmospheric at all. The voice acting is bad. Whereas 
 all the characters have great voice overs, the main character has a bad voice over. 
  
  There is one really good thing about the game though. The cities and people have been designed 
 really well. They're beautiful to look at and it is really great to see how the cities and people 
 could have been some centuries ago.
  
  Ultimately, Assassin's Creed is a decent game with more glitches and boring parts than the good 
 ones. Even though you'll get bored pretty soon and the game will get very repetitive, rooftop running 
 and scaling walls is fun. I suggest that you overlook this game. It's not worth the money. But 
 if you really want it that bad, then rent it. But you'll be disappointed. That's for sure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that can impress anyone simply by a picture or a video, 
 the amazing visuals come with an excellent and intriguing story, there are two stories happening 
 at the same time, one takes place in the year 2012 when a bartender named Desmond Miles is kidnapped 
 and forced to be the subject of tests for a company, basically one of his ancestors was an assassin 
 and they are doing tests with his DNA to search for remains of memory from this ancestor. The other 
 story is with this very ancestor, named Altair, who is an assassin, and his quest to eliminate 
 targets commanded by his master, Al Mualim.
  
  Some might say the game mechanics are overwhelmingly repetitive, I say it fits right at the purpose 
 of the game, you in the role of an Assassin who needs to investigate and eliminate targets, you're 
 given a name and a location, it's up to you to find the victim. To make the investigation you firstly 
 need to recognize the place, so you climb at some of the various high points in each city and examine 
 the surroundings, by doing that you spot numerous places for information gathering. Then it's time 
 to go on and actually get the information, it can come from hearing other people's conversations, 
 pickpocketing items from people around the city, forced interrogations or from another of your 
 fellow assassins scattered around the cities, they will surely ask you some favor in return that 
 revolves around killing stalkers or collecting some flags around.
  
  You're gonna be summoned by your master, who will give you the orders and targets, you need to 
 kill nine targets, you then need to head to one of the three big cities, Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus; 
 then you need to find the city's assassins bureau and speak to the representative assassin in that 
 location, he will help you a little bit and show you the better places and directions to start 
 searching but the actual target's location will be up to you to find by what you discover in the 
 streets.
  
  The real fun about this game is the stealth and assassination, you are forced to stay unnoticed 
 due to obvious reasons, and will be given a Synchronization Bar which tells you how much health 
 you have but also gives you another important information, how noticed you are at the moment. If 
 the center of the triangle in the bar is white you are completely unnoticed, no one knows you're 
 there, people don't even know you exist. If it gets yellow things are still good for Altair, but 
 citizens and guards around you know you're there, at this moment they don't necessarily already 
 know you're a cold-blooded assassin with uncontrolled thirst for blood but they know you're there, 
 depending on your actions the center of the triangle will start blinking and if the actions are 
 extreme or too much out of the socially accepted a guard may start watching Altair's actions, which 
 will give you a red alert. Note that only the center of the triangle changes at first, for the 
 entire triangle to become yellow or red certain requirements must be reached. An entire red alert 
 is when the guards are chasing you with you in sight, and an entire yellow triangle is when you're 
 in a chase but out of the guards sight. If you're only a suspect yet, only the center will blink 
 and change color.
  
  When you're being chased you can fight or you can run away, if you fight, other guards may come 
 in and confront you too, but eventually they will stop coming and you'll be free to go, but you 
 should exit the battle location quickly because other guards will reach the spot and start asking 
 question about what happened there and who was the responsible for that, and since you're the responsible 
 for that and the streets are full of citizens with enough willing to talk, it's better to disappear.
 
  
  The last color you have is blue, the blue color appears when you were being chased, broke their 
 line of sight, and successfully hid yourself in one of the locations available to you, which are 
 benches, rooftop gardens, haystacks, haystacks carts and blending within scholars. After a few 
 seconds hiding you should be fine to continue your quest normally.
  
  There's not much variety in the tasks you are asked to do, that's true, but they are always pretty 
 fun and seems very real. You have an immense freedom on how you can achieve your objectives, and 
 that adds to the non-linearity of the game, allowing you to choose which sources of information 
 you should go for or which place to visit first.
  
  All that come alongside with one of the most amazing aspects about this game, the graphics. They're 
 beautiful, absolutely gorgeous, it's certainly one of the best technical graphics as for today. 
 They're not only technically impressive, and that's what makes them so amazing, they're artistically 
 coherent. The cities are flooded with people, average people of all kinds, merchants, scholars, 
 beggars, guards. Every city has three types of districts; the poor, the middle and the rich district. 
 Each show differences in architecture, number of beggars, quantity of guards, etc, and each will 
 be available at some distinct point of the game. You can climb upon basically every single building 
 in any of the cities, and it's easy to do so, just by pressing one or two buttons and running against 
 a wall and you're done, the system is easy and satisfying, you really feel freedom about what you 
 can do with the wall climbing.
  
  Spoken dialogs are practically mandatory for today's games, and Assassin's Creed is no exception, 
 every dialog has voice-over and it was nicely done. The story develops in a very interesting way, 
 with the character evolving and learning to question his own acts, and the acts of the ones in 
 his group.
  
  Each assassination you're asked to perform demands a different kind of approach, sometimes will 
 be easy to just go there and kill with just some guards following you, but sometimes will be harder 
 and will even demand different kinds of strategies and some serious stealth from your part. The 
 fights are actually pretty fun, there are some techniques that helps them to not fall into a systematic 
 action.
  
  There's no multiplayer, but there's a lasting single player experience that will probably make 
 you come back for more after you finish it for the first time, just to do everything you've done, 
 but now after you mastered the controls, using different approaches, and really getting into the 
 intriguing and complex story. It's not a surprise to see they added lots of collectibles to keep 
 you playing long after you finished, and there really are various things to be found, hundreds 
 and hundreds of flags scattered all around, various Templars for you to kill, and of course all 
 that in a world full of little details, alleys and hidden places.
  
  In the end what you get is a game that succeeds truthfully in putting you in the skin of an assassin, 
 the job might get tedious but it should be done, and you probably will do it since it's really 
 fun, but the very nature of this game puts it in the love or hate field, if you like the adrenaline 
 of stealth action in an amazing 12th century atmosphere this game should be a must play. And ends 
 up being a prime example of a game that has a soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huggy12345
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is in a league of its own. I've never played such a sneaky game before. You don't 
 realize how fun it is to kill people with knives and swords until you play this game. It's one 
 of my favorite games I've played in a while, but don't get it twisted this game is f**kin hard. 
 The first mission I was confused with all of the unique jumping, climbing, and running movements 
 but with enough time put in I was jumping off walls and jumping for towers into haystacks. Its 
 extremely addictive I even had to put GTA 4 down to play it. Riding horses and using swords may 
 seem dorky but Ubisoft made me a dork for enjoying all of it. Pocket picking is a bit confusing 
 I had my friend talk me through it over xbox live because it was so hard but once you understand 
 all of the unique things to be done in this game you can't stop doing it. The assassinations are 
 one of my favorite things about this game, you find the guy and either kill him softly or get into 
 a sword fight with him which I prefer. Then after the job is done you get to sneak around on roof 
 tops and hide from your enemies. Not to mention throwing soldiers off roofs which is one of the 
 more fun past times that I enjoy. Other than that, I highly recommend this game to anyone, TRUST 
 ME YOU WILL LOVE IT !
  
  Money will spent ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a lot of fun! My favourite things to do is climb on top of building, jump for 
 one to another, leap of faith, pick pocket, eavesdropping, especially assassinating and all that 
 fun stuff to do is amazing.
  
  Assassins Creed has great gameplay, the good thing about it is that there is no difficulty, just 
 play until you finish it. It builds up on u, you need strategies to play this, like countering 
 attacks with a sword, knife and blade.
  
  The story is good, everything is well done and it's a game to learn about history, even though 
 this game is like three years old, it's graphics are pretty good compare to other games.
  
  First when I got the game, I thought that you are in history, but actually it's this random guy 
 who gets flashbacks of his ancestors and stuff, really good and creative, I can just say that this 
 game is amazing!
  
  It deserved to get a 9.0 rating. It is very different compare to other games, there are only very 
 few historical games and this is the most fun at out all of them.
  
  I would give this game 5 stars and recommend you to play this, it is enjoyable for everyone.
 
  
  Thank you for reading my Review, this is just my opinion:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icarl001
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed has a very well adapted environment, a great game system and a storyline which 
 lets you take on a time when abilities were more important than the weapons themselves, I have 
 found playing it very entertaining and pleasant to take on a journey that certainly allows you 
 to approach your mission objectives in any way you want to, the important thing is to get the missions 
 done. I really recommend this game to anyone who is looking for an open world game in which no 
 matter how you do things the story keeps going on and there are enough ways to have fun jumping 
 around and killing some bad guys, the game does not go so far as to let you decide whether to be 
 good or bad (like Fable does) but still let's you decide how to act upon certain situations. As 
 you progress through the game and achieve your goals the story drags you deeper in a world and 
 time we hardly imagine and it does this very well too. I have found that the story outside the 
 animus is not very good and lacks a lot of sense, at least up to the point where I have played 
 so far, nevertheless this is by far one of the best games I've played and a very welcome difference 
 from shooters, terror games and many other kind of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kataro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed Delivers A masterpiece that's intuitive in ever aspect. With its Amazing Graphics 
 and landscape that really makes you feel apart of the World you play in. The Voice Overs and Cut 
 scenes Are so Superb that its impossible not too feel like a Movie your acting for as your given 
 complete freedom to move around and change the camera angle as the dialog continues. The gameplay 
 of course being what most people look for in a game (Im more into the Story) is Outstanding with 
 its smooth and quick responsive system, that really makes you totally in control of your character. 
 With four Deadly types of weapons all with there own unique fighting styles and different Stealth 
 kills Will have your Enemies second guessing there approach, You might even have them running for 
 there lives! 
  The game is long Enough to be satisfied with your purchase as you play the Character Desmond Miles 
 who is a former assassin from a family blood line of assassins. Who is kidnaped by an organization 
 who puts him in this Virtual machine called the animus that puts Desmond in the life of his ancestor 
 Altair to relive past moments that will lead up to knowing the whereabouts of an ancient artifact 
 that is claimed to possess Devine powers. So as you play through the memory logs of Altair every 
 so often you'll be pulled out of the animus to go through some dialog that might better help you 
 under stand the situation but really that's a small and meaningless part of the game. While playing 
 as Altair you will be exploring a Huge landscape with 5 (I believe) Large cities located at edge 
 points of what some could call a World map Known as the Kingdom. All completely exploreable and 
 all with there own objectives. Without limits you are able to climb pretty much any building or 
 anything with ledges. Run up walls doing incredible acrobatics, pickpocketing, interrogate , and 
 even eavesdropping. 
  This game without a doubt is a Great game but sadly at least on my part doesn't have that much 
 replay value. You might find yourself once and while throwing it back in your system to kill a 
 few guards here and there or even do some of the objectives over (cause they are fun) But over 
 all you'll probably just use it to brake up substances on ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Just by looking at the front cover and the back description, (well for me anyways) , is just screams 
 out sweet game. Assassins Creed delivers on each part of the game, the only slight problems that 
 occur is that these parts can get repetitive.
  
  Starting with the story. You will start in the office place with the attimus machine. The whole 
 story line when you arent playing as the assassin is a good idea to fill the players in on the 
 story line as it can be confusing, but it is incredibly boring and time wasting.
  
  When you play as the assassin though, its magical. The game is beautifully graphiced and definately 
 resembles historic towns and cities. Your characters controls and movements are very fluent and 
 is easy to work with.
  
  The object after a couple of intro missions, is to kill 9 men. Here is where some of the parts 
 start to repeat. There are only 3 cities you travel to which means 3 men ae in each city. You do 
 go to various districts within the city but more variety may have been nice.
  
  The way to kill the men is to plan your attack, then accomplish it. The assassination parts are 
 well thought out and gradually get harder as you make it through the game, but the planning isnt 
 all that fulfilling. You climb pretty the same styled towers 5 or 6 times, then jump. This then 
 records your objectives on the map. Times that by 9 men and it can get very redundant.
  
  Now, less about the negatives and more about the positives. The reward system is well constructed 
 in how you receive certain abilities and a piece of weaponry after each successful kill. The combat 
 is brilliant. You can start swinging your blade at enemies to slice them up or waiting for them 
 to attack and do a "God of War" style quick time. Technically its not god of war as no button appears 
 on screen you have to hit but its all about timing.
  
  Lastly, the ending. Its been out for 2 years so I dont think anyone will mind if I use spoilers. 
 It is confusing, but if you paid attention to the story line and dialougue it should be ok. Not 
 the greatest ending to a game, but with the announcements of AC2, it all seems to fall into place.
 
  
  Assassins Creed is a top notch game, now thats its been 2 years the price is lower and should definately 
 be player if you havent. Not a lot of replay value though, maybe just for achievements, as once 
 you play it once, the second time isnt as much fun. Disagree if you want these are only my thoughts. 
 Tracking AC2 right now.
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Here we are with Assassin's Creed, a title that at first glance could have been interpreted as 
 a typical platform-adventure based game in pre-modern history that probably wouldn't have been 
 viable enough to take away your attention for anything more than 10 hours at best. What a startling 
 experience I had after beginning Assassin's Creed and realizing how far a first interpretation 
 can go when so easily influenced by less capable titles of present-day.
  
  In Assassin's Creed you start off as a disciple of the creed, which is a radical sect maintained 
 by an order of Muslim assassins who ultimately aim on maintaining order throughout the country 
 by abolishing those who stand against their dogma of freedom and justice with the element of assassination. 
 As a certain disciple -- pompously recognized by the name of Altair -- you will venture through three 
 cities: Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus -- each of which will be interacted with at least three separate 
 times throughout the game.
  
  Now what sets apart Assassin's Creed from the majority of other titles is its highly intelligent 
 writing: everything is based with a strong emphasis on theory, philosophy, and other fabrications 
 of logic, which make you feel as if you are filling the role of Altair with your own judgment as 
 you put to death conspirators, Christians, corrupt government agents or mere guards, or even delusional 
 beggars in the market place who have no other means of living.
  
  Equating Assassin's Creed's positive qualities against its draw-backs is not very difficult as 
 the only negative elements in the entire game are spending a large share of time collecting the 
 flags of a respective city or hunting down a scattered list of Templar knights opposing the order 
 you represent; this is a title that comes about as close to perfection as perfection can come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W3En
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an addictive game that is enjoyable but could use some work. During the game 
 you play in an fully explorable open world environment, a very vivid one at that... everything 
 is done to look what you might think it would in that time period. The only problem was not being 
 able to climb all of the builds you see but it wasn't a huge deal. The story during the game is 
 intriguing unveiling a conspiracy that you have been working for the entire game and if you don't 
 already know how the game ends it is extremely captivating. The reason to me giving the game a 
 rating of 6 is due to the repetitiveness of the game play, every mission you either interrogate, 
 pickpocket, eaves drop, or do a mission for an informant. For the first two "levels" or assassinations 
 those several different mission types are fine but later on in the game you realize that it is 
 all you have done. The game play takes an approach similar to that fable II took which is single 
 button combat in correlation with the analog stick. This allows the game to be much more smooth 
 then a simple button basher. The addition of running and climbing up building hiding etc... had 
 only one problem and that is the guards seem to have the same acrobatic ablility as you do, meaning 
 that if you climb a wall or a building to escape they will be there right behind you and end up 
 doing some of these things as fast as you which makes evading them much more difficult. Overall 
 the concept of the game is good, the story is good and just about everything else is... just a few 
 flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonMaster909
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Yet another great and satisfying game worth playing start to finish... (sorry it took me so long 
 to get to writing a review) anyways, lets get down to business! For those readers who already know 
 me than you'll know what strong points of Assassins Creed stuck out to me right off the bat; why 
 yes, the Art and the storyline (despite how bizarre.) I found the futuristic young hero Desmond 
 "linking" to our religiously torn medieval past to secretly take down evil men and their sinister 
 plots via a slightly strange DNA-blood-genetic-code machine called an Animus forcing him into the 
 boots of Altair, an assassin from the past an ideal base for an action adventure game. Plus your 
 "past" version, Altair, is like a medieval-age "white" Ninja who uses a hidden wrist switch blade 
 to assassinate people quietly, but in case you do get caught your sword-fighting skills are up 
 to the challenge (as long as you can time counter strikes well enough) and you only lack web-slinging 
 powers for all the wall climbing and roof jumping you'll do throughout the game, pretty cool huh?
 
  
  You'll spend a large part of Assassins Creed in three famous medieval cities completing missions 
 (AKA "hit jobs" AKA "assassinate bad guys") and return to the Assassins Creed's main base to regain 
 your honor, which you lost at the beginning of the game, as well as all your abilities and weapons 
 (hmmm, does it smell like Samus Aran in here? Remember? She always loses her power ups at the beginning 
 of all her games heh.)
  
  Game play is extremely fun, cool and satisfying (imagine being able to assassinate your target 
 all alone in a dark alley after having raced across rooftops and trailed slowly behind him through 
 innumerous crowds waiting for just the right moment before going in for the kill) controls aren't 
 complicated once you get used to them. Big battles are exciting at first but can get tedious after 
 a while. 
  
  Environments are, simply put, amazing. Kudos to the artists who worked on this game, it must have 
 taken forever and a half to have built all the cities in this title (and make everything work) 
 Everything looks so real and feels authentic to the time (the future included) One of the most 
 satisfying parts of this game to me was climbing up the view points, checking out the scenery, 
 and then doing the death jumps to land (completely safe and unharmed) into the waiting hay-carts 
 below. 
  
  Music adds excitement to the battle and serenity to calmer parts in the game, but grows old and 
 stale after awhile (imagine Final Fantasy VII's exact same fight music every random encounter.)
 
  
  Alright, now for some downfalls 3 words: "Buy a flipping game-guide" okay 4 words, but you get 
 the point. In the middle map connecting all the cities I got so frustrated because I got so freakin 
 lost! And people kept attacking me! Some of the time I could just out run them on my horse but 
 they usually frustrated that by hacking at my horse's legs, thus forcing me to the ground for a 
 fight. Also I kept wandering around until I found a path only to take it all the way down (battling 
 along the way) just to find out I had reached the wrong city. It was only after reading the game-guide 
 that I figured out where to go and how to put markers on the min-map as a guide bleh! Also don't 
 even THINK about collecting all the flags on all the different maps without help unless you plan 
 on playing this game for a LONG time
  
  The beginning of this game delivers thrills and excitements and every turn, unfortunately what 
 seems so cool at first begins to wear off and like the story's plot, doesn't turn out as cool as 
 it first appeared to be. Near the end playing felt more like a chore to see how it all ends up 
 rather than exciting and fulfilling like before. 
  
  Though the ending was climatic (sort of) it ended abruptly without much of even an attempt at an 
 explanation, let alone an attention-grabbing cliffhanger, leaving the gamer with a WTF? expression 
 on his face and the thought "they better make a sequel to this because that is definitely an open 
 ended plot or maybe like a whole bunch of open ended plots" 
  
  However despite it's downfalls Assassins Creed is worth at least a one time play-through; players 
 will be rewarded with true medieval assassin wall climbing action, heart pounding roof jumps, and 
 stylized swashbuckler battles, with a splash of mysterious futuristic scientist and intrigue. Sounds 
 like your bowl of soup? Then eat up, but be warned, the food goes cold quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugiex
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it was all the hype around this game that made my expectation high for assassin creed or 
 maybe it was something else? i really dont know because it was a long time ago and the hype high 
 was long but over since the game was release in store. One thing i can say about Assassin creed 
 is that it looks beautiful from the city to the country side you can see all the details that the 
 developers put in the game once you stand there and take the moment to look at the environment. 
 I can see why other gamers would love this game but to me the falls short of my expectation, to 
 me its in between great and a ok game.
  
  The story begins with a character name desmond miles which is captured by two scientist that was 
 forcing him to go back in time to find out more about this ancestor in the middle east. to fix 
 the problems in the future. His ancestor he plays in the past was a assassin group that he works 
 for a do mission to assassinate important people that believes to be ''evil''
  
  The games story presented was a questionable thing for me, it left the sense of feeling of not 
 understanding what was really going on. It left me out of the inner circle of what the scientist 
 really what with his ancestors and him. why he was locked into a room with lucy all the time. I 
 just wish the presented was told a little better and more information about the scientist would 
 of been great.
  
  Assassin Creed presented the story in the game was really great and presented itself to the viewers 
 of the game with sense of understanding part of what was going on. The only thing that i had the 
 problem was with the dept of the game, i just wish they gave out a little more information about 
 what the two scientist want with his ancestor and why they want to kill him afterward if its really 
 for the ''good'' it take a while to get to use of the controls of the game because of its different 
 buttons to certain action movement. When you press a wrong button you can find yourself dead or 
 doing something that you really dont want to do while fighting in a big crowed city surrounded 
 by guards. ''climbing up walls'' for instance what happens when i press the wrong button.
  
  Perhaps one of the things that enjoyed about assassin creed was the world was free to explore, 
 you can see everything from the city to the country side. The busy streets of follow the leader 
 pot holding line or take a deep breath of everything in the city from scaling the massive towers 
 structure of the outer city limits. You can do a little rooftop dancing while trying to get away 
 from guards or ballet your way through the crowed streets either way its really fun.
  
  Before you get to assassinate the target you would have to do some endless task that repeats itself 
 in every mission through the game. yes it gets boring but you would have to do it to progress in 
 the game to get the ''information''that is needed. These task considers you to do three things 
 eavesdropping that requires the players to sit on the bench and press the
  button, pickpocket get your assassin close then press another button and there's beat up a person 
 mission which requires you to beat up a person to get information. Like most of the stealth games 
 that iv played in the past, creed stealth mechanics are buggy and sometimes work or not. it makes 
 it pointless to even use stealth if you cant get a clean kill or get way. Isnt the point of being 
 a assassin being able to get a clean kill without being seen?
  
  Assasssin creed doesn't fit the description of a stealth game, hell stealth doesnt really existed 
 in this game the first place. its hard to tell where this game fits in maybe in a action adventure 
 type style. but other then that i suggest that you rent this game first before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkGrizzly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  
  Immediately, this game intrigued me with its seamless game mechanics and enthralling storyline. 
 
  
  Urban navigation is intuitive as you jump, pull, and climb your way through various middle eastern 
 cities. The combat is also
  fluid. Timed attacks and counters produce both beautiful and gory combat sequences. There are a 
 few challenges in combat, but there is sense of mastery as you cut through you opponents towards 
 the end of the game. The beautiful graphics don't hurt either. 
  The the story builds more intrigue the longer you play. Hunting down maniacs has never been so 
 enthralling. Their plots are insane, but sometimes you can't help but feel a shred of sympathy 
 when they explain themselves before they die. Furthermore, they cause you to question your purposes 
 in the game. On that note, an ability to change allegiances in the game would have added to the 
 open ended environment. 
  
  If you have are looking for an engrossing experience, I would put this game on the top of your 
 list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyowns
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off this game is a great game. It could have been amazing, but not quite. It gets 
 repetitive at the end and the investigations can get annoying. Before you start an assassination 
 attempt you have to investigate. These get repetitive. The fighting can be fast or slow depending 
 on how you want to play. At the end I felt like i had mastered the sword. The controls were easy 
 for me to learn at least. how ever there was a beginning, the middle part, and i commercial at 
 the end for the next game in this series. 
  
  Out of ten
  game play 9
  controls 9
  Graphics 9
  freshness 6
  Replay value 3
  Sense of accomplishment 9
  camera 9
  Uniqueness 
 9
  Exploration 10
  Overall 9
  
  Final thoughts: A good stealth action game that every x-box 360 owner should at least give a try. 
 Great environments that are fun to explore and just jump around. Give this game a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_arya1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  when i first played it at a frnds house i was like wtf
  
  but when i borrowed it i was like WOAH this is AWESOME!!
  
  you will love the first few levels!!
 
  thats when the game is new to you and you have loads to explore and learn
  but as you go on the missions are quite similar even though they get quite tougher later and its 
 hard to go around unnoticed..
  but the whole feel of it is quite real
  the melee fighting in the game is loads of fun once you get the hang of counters, but at some places 
 its just plain frustrating with 20 guards surrounding you and nowhere to run and you just keep 
 getting hit... :p
  
  the concept of the game is quite unique but the story leaves you with a lot on your mind
  loads 
 of things are left unanswered 
  hopefully for a sequel!!
  but on the whole its a game everyone should play
  even though it might prove difficult there 
 are many fun aspects like the leap of faith ;) and picking off guards with ur throwing knives or 
 scaling walls or jumping across rooftops!!
  personally i really like it despite it getting slightly repetitive later on...
  but a gr8 game 
 nonetheless
  
  a solid 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  THIS is my opinion if you don't like it don't waste your yime reading it...
  
  
  
  This was the very first game I played on my new xbox and a friend of mine lend it to me. I really 
 wasn't expecting it to be this good. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Being an 'old' game the graphics are great. great detail and when you are in view points its breathtaking.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  you catch up to it very fast. simple controls. however gets kind of boring after a while.
  
 
  Story:
  
  Very creative story even thought it leaves so many questions unanswered. The ending wasn't that 
 good neither.
  
  Replay:
  
  play only once. continue only for achievemnets.
  
  Overall:
  
  It was a good game and it deserves to be played for any xbox owner. The bad are 
 the story that really doesn't give you an ending and the repetitive kilings, objectives.......... blah 
 blah
  
  Currently, the price is very low and it's a great game if you have 20 to 25 bucks to spend. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1coolguy50
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so I have no idea about how to do this.
  Anyway the ASSASSINS CREED is an beautiful game I have to say. And when I first played this game 
 I though "Oh my god this is so cool and exiting"
  But then I played the game more and more every hour I played I felt like it was getting boring. I 
 don't know about every body else but to me this game felt repeated. The combat was like incredible/great!! 
 The maneuvering was nice and the camera never glitched or when't crappy. This game is not bad at 
 all. But as you play it might feel like "I was here why do I have to go again" (disappointed) The 
 open world was like nothing I ever saw. But the only two problems I found with the game was that 
 1. I think there could have been more experiences
  2. The buttons occasionally stopped working and that just got me pissed off. I love this game but 
 the more I played the more I got bored. I had to stop playing because I was so bored!!! The fact 
 that the ending was weird or did not make sence did not matter to me because 1. There will be a 
 second part and 2. The game explains its self as the story progressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deth_Walkr
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Looking at the previews and such for this game I was so excited about it. But, it just doesn't 
 hold up to standard.
  
  The good. The game is beautiful. Truly it is. And, the music score isn't that bad. Climbing on 
 any building is pretty cool and it can be fun to do so in different ways. It's even more fun when 
 you are running from enemies and leaving them in the dust along the roofs. For those of you who 
 like great big worlds well this is as big as any. You'll find yourself roaming for sometime if 
 you want to explore all of this game. I was playing for a few days and hadn't even uncovered even 
 a little bit of it yet.
  
  There main missions lack variation or different approaches to complete them for such an open ended 
 game. There aren't many different types of side missions either. Makes the game very very repetitive.
 
  
  The battles are horrendous in their simplicity and lack of difficulty. It is hard to go on the 
 offensive if you are in a mass of people so you often tend to rely on your counter. How the battle 
 pans out is that you are always using your counter as if you veer away to much from utilizing it 
 you will end up in trouble more often than not. Simply stand and counter and that's pretty much 
 how the fighting mechanics are set up.
  
  Searching for flags is fun at first. Til you realize that the world is huge and there could be 
 flags anywhere. With seemingly no tangible bonus to finding these hundreds of flags. Another annoying 
 occurrence in the game is that you cannot skip cutscenes even if you have seen them before. This 
 cuts into the action, even moreso when you are restarting the mission after just failing it.
  
  Assassins Creed is an ok game but don't look for anything above mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baboy_baka
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  After playing Assassin's Creed, I had some mixed opinions of this game. The graphics and the visualisations 
 are very high def and the story of this game is somewhat interesting, but there is one thing that 
 kept on bugging me, and that was the repetition of the game.
  
  Every mission that you encounter in Assassin's Creed has the same routine that goes round again 
 and again. Whether your in Jerusalem or in Damascus, assassinating the target becomes very predictive. 
 The Repetition also makes the game a breeze to finish, unless your a player who has a bad omen 
 of dying. Eavesdrop, interrogate and assassinate is what I can describe about the structure of 
 game play of Assassin's Creed.
  
  The Cut scenes is another annoyance that i had to encounter. Although there are some cut scenes 
 that are good to watch, there are some that drag on and on to the point that you just want to skip 
 the damn scene. Unfortunately, you can't skip the scenes, which makes the game feel long.
  
  Other than that, the game is still pretty fun to play. The combat scenes are brilliant and 
 the open world such as the cities (which in my opinion is pretty big) is really great to roam around. 
 The game isn't linear, which allows you to do side missions such as rescuing citizens and challenges, 
 or get straight to the objective.
  
  The graphics are really good especially if you have a high def TV. It's very smooth and in some 
 cases it looked realistic. There are some few glitches here and there, but it doesn't seem to bother.
 
  
  I thought this game would've got a better score if it wasn't so repetitive and had less dragging 
 cut scenes, but overall, it is still pretty fun to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crocodile_Key
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game so bad. It seems lately all games are missing that old feeling I used 
 to get that caused me to play a game for days and months. Unfortunately, Assassins Creed failed 
 with me also. The game play is annoying, repetitive, and stupidly hard.
  
  I have a lot of problems with this game. First of all, you do the exact same things through the 
 whole game. Save citizens, pick pocket, climb buildings to get to view points, interrogate, rinse, 
 repeat. The game never changes up, it is the same all the way through. One of the most repetitive 
 games I have ever played.
  
  The combat, oh boy the combat. There are a lot of cool moves and fighting abilities you can use, 
 but you will never need too. I will now tell you all you need to know to survive any fight you 
 get into, hold RT, hit X as soon as your foe attacks, and you counter, that's all you need to do. 
 If they grab, you, hit B instead of X to break the hold. You have now mastered the fighting game. 
 
  
  Now you ask, why did you say this game is so hard if the fighting is easy? Let me explain the most 
 annoying part, even more annoying than the repetitiveness. Many missions require you to assassinate 
 and go unnoticed, understandable for this game, and they are cool, except it is all but impossible 
 to go unnoticed. You can be minding your own business, and boom the guards spot you and you are 
 fighting again. Then guess what, time to replay the whole segment, but you have to listen and watch 
 the same video and mission start again because there is no skip option. Brilliant, loving this.
 
  
  Let's throw in the fact you have time limits on these assassination missions also, and you get 
 a completely annoying game that is cheap and will aggravate you past the point of reason. Why oh 
 why did that 1 guard see me with 20 seconds left as I slowly walk back to my informant? Well, time 
 to try again. 
  
  This is not fun. You are too stealth as an assassin right? And I agree the game should not be easy, 
 but it is almost impossible, which really ruins a game based on stealth.
  
  Very disappointing for a game I looked forward too so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIackwoIf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I have completed Assassin's Creed, and I am ready to deliver my critique. Being that many have 
 compared it to the Medieval adventure game Oblivion (Elder Scrolls) , I will use a couple of comparison 
 references. So here it is......
  Okay, Do you want the good news or the bad news? Lets do bad news first. Saving options for this 
 game are very limited. You must wait for checkpoints, and they are only 100% effective as long 
 as you don't shut off your system. Otherwise, when you reboot you'll end up at a different location. 
 I never did figured out their science behind saving. Also, if you kill posted guards in a city 
 (let's say on roof tops, or in front of doorways) if you shut down and then reboot, they will be 
 resurrected and there again. This tended to force me to play longer and later sessions than I normally 
 would have. And the most horrible factor is, There is no way to skip it's lengthy cinema clips 
 throughout the game. That's fine for my first viewing, I like to know what the storyline is, but 
 when I have to see it more than once, it tends to be quite annoying. As for the ethical and moral 
 value aspect... Definitely an evil game. Aside from the killing of the sacred order of Templar 
 Knights and holy crusaders, there was some reference to Jesus and other biblical characters stating 
 that their miracles (such as water to wine) were actually only illusions created by a certain magical 
 or holy artifact. So if your a high octane Christian, you may become offended by certain cinema 
 dialogues and rants of street preachers. Also I'm not crazy about any game that limits my movement 
 by having invisible force fields to prevent me from let's say "jumping on a rock" In that way Oblivion 
 was the Master game of total freedom. No lab rat in a maze feeling. Another complaint I've heard 
 is that the missions are redundant. This is true, but sport games, and one on one fight games, 
 and even Halo games are redundant, but if you like the sport, or fight, or gameplay in general, 
 who cares.
  Now with all the bad features out of the way: The melee battle system is amazing. That portion 
 of the game alone is mind blowing and extremely addictive. Unlike the more simplistic fighting 
 of just block and swing (like in Oblivion) the grappling, parrying, and alternate weapons and moves 
 is resemblant of a Mortal Combat style game. The texture mapping and architecture of the cities 
 are unsurpassed in my view. They literally put you in a medieval time period that you can walk 
 around for hours in, without even caring about your current mission. The Ai is enjoyable. There 
 is a multitude of character reactions, amusing responsive dialogue, and they have many different 
 character voices. Unlike Oblivion, which was like The Simpsons, 5 people doing the voices for an 
 entire world. I also like the factor that it is always daytime. The aspect of day/night and climatic 
 change that Oblivion has is realistic, but who likes rain, or squinting your eyes in the dark?
 
  Gameplay is tremendously enjoyable as well as addictive. And even though I have completed this 
 game, I enjoy just reloading past levels and walking around and battling in it's medieval setting 
 (though again, I do not enjoy having to sit through an lengthy old cinema to get there) Keep this 
 game away from any kids under 18. No, really. You are a killer. The game is just killing. And truthfully, 
 I have never had such enjoyment committing acts of violence as I do with this game. So my consensus 
 is......
  Given the pros and cons of this game, ethical and moral views removed (That's your own call)
 
  There has not been a game with such an elaborately detailed world, vast variation of characters, 
 and intricate yet easily managed fighting system as does Assassin's Creed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is awesome, really, just that. It takes place in the Holy Land as an assassin named 
 Altair of a league called the Creed. As Altair you assassinate soldiers, corrupt nobles, slavers, 
 etc. The only bad thing about it is that it gets somewhat repeatitive, but if you look past that 
 is amazing.
  
  The controls are neat, they are designed like X is weapon hand, B is empty hand, A is feet, and 
 Y is head. The triggers also preform a special task of high and low profile (low is defalt) and 
 for targeting.
  
  Assassin's Creed has great graphics down to the fingers of the characters to the highest buildings 
 in its wide open citys and countrysides. They are some of the best on any platform, or any game.
 
  
  The gameplay consists of, well, assassinations. But before each one you have to do things in the 
 giant, wide-open citys, such as Pickpocketing maps, Interrogations, Eves-dropping, and doing assassinations 
 for informers. But in this theres not just story mode, there's always lots of thing to do around 
 the 4 citys and huge countryside. Assassinating random soldiers just for fun, or if you want to, 
 just give em a push or slash them for open conflict. Climbing is always fun, climbing to view points, 
 running on buildings and jumping on a soldier, etc. Theres also lots of collectible flags, scattered 
 in hidden spots. And then there's the Templar's to eliminate. 
  
  The sword and knife fighting is sweet, especially the counters and combo kills. You can also dodge 
 sword swings and then do a nice blade-slash if you do it right. You can grab people too, and throw 
 knifes at people to disbatch several soldiers.
  
  The sound and voice acting is great, the citizens, Altair, the Creed, the soldiers, it all sounds 
 great. The randomly heard soundtrack isn't to bad either.
  
  So overall this is a must buy if you don't have it, and a keeper if you do with all the increadible 
 gameplay and everything else. Hopefully the repeatition won't ruin this amazing experiance for 
 you.
  Gamplay: 9.7
  Sound: 9.8
  Graphics:10
  Replay Value: High
  Overall: 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JWKurusa
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  I liked this game for the feel of actuly being a part of the creed showing the emotions and thoughts 
 of war religion and power through the extensive gameplay that I love. mere swords play and intense 
 close combat action as you master the art of the kill to honor the power of the creed to live like 
 an assassin you must be swift and skill full to kill your prey. The achievments are very classic 
 and are somewhat hard to get as you try to achieve to be a true assassin. The feelings in this 
 game are legendary very hard to interpret until you play your way to the game to unlock more. Several 
 of your victims are crazed or insane and as you defeat them explain to you why they think what 
 they are doing is so right and necessary to survive. This game is very action packed and free willed 
 most people disliked the ending but i thought it was necessary for them to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a bloody dive into a beautiful world of warriors and the assassins who hate 
 them. Beautiful animation, stylish low-saturation graphics, and city-wide chases are all fundamentally 
 wonderful in Creed. There really isn't another game quite like it. Unfortunately, there isn't another 
 game with issues quite like Creed's, either. Assassin's Creed tries to be a stealth game, an action 
 game, a stealth kill game and a platformer, and to innovate in each category. But for each amazing 
 step forward, Creed takes a half-step back.
  
  Quietly Killing Time
  
  Assassin's Creed revolves around the assassinations of nine key targets in the Third Crusade (as 
 well as some "other" points in history) . Acre, Jerusalem, and Damascus are rendered in beautiful 
 grays and earth tones, creating the effect of free-running across a giant tomb. It's in the free-running 
 that you'll find the game's most original and satisfying gameplay, tearing across cities as medieval 
 hitman Altair.
  
  By holding down a trigger and the action button, Altair can nimbly ascend anything. Once you're 
 free-running, gameplay becomes about maintaining a perfect line of motion rather than hitting the 
 jump button at just the right time. There's a very steep learning curve, because these free-running 
 portions look more like platforming than they actually play. The basic idea is to hold down the 
 free-running buttons and point Altair in the right direction. Your job isn't to micromanage jumps; 
 your job is to point Altair towards his victims and make sure they die cleanly.
  
  
  In order to secure your targets' deaths, you have to climb a few "synchronization points," the 
 tallest buildings in a city's district. Each district has half a dozen or more of these, with each 
 city divided into three districts. Climbing to the very highest point of these structures is really 
 fun. There isn't any other game that quite captures the heart-pounding pleasure of simply ascending, 
 endlessly, with nothing but your wits and fingertips to guide you.
  
  Each sync point unveils a roundup of choices on your mini-map, including citizens to rescue (who'll 
 then help you later) and various clues you'll have to unlock in order to earn permission to kill 
 your target. You might have to interrogate an enemy agent, pickpocket a map, or simply kill a few 
 Templars without being caught -- and within a time limit.
  While that sounds like a forgiving, interesting way to represent "investigating" your target, the 
 mission types all blur into a homogenous mix of unskippable introductory cut-scenes and difficulty 
 that is always too hard or too easy. Until mission seven, the toughest job you're likely to have 
 is to go to your HUD marker, sit at the bench, and hit the Y button to listen in on a conversation.
 
  
  I've Never Run
  
  But once you hit the seventh mission, the timed stealth murder sprees become trial and error, simply 
 hoping you can make your hits before some random guard bumps into you, forcing you to redo the 
 entire mission. They're not long, but it's an irritant to repeat the same mini-mission over and 
 over again. More disappointing, chances to explain why your target deserves to die are passed up 
 for simple chatter. Each mini-mission's cut-scene is merely exposition, always telling instead 
 of showing.
  
  Missions in free-roaming, open-world games give the player a sense of direction, a sense of not 
 being lost in the world.
  Overall Rating- 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oshaun123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Killing without being seen. That is the mark of a true assassin. Assassin's Creed is the latest 
 production from Ubisoft Montreal if not the greatest. It immerses you in the time of the third 
 Crusades and the conflicts between Crusaders and Saracen forces. You begin the game as a master 
 assassin who screws up a mission and is stripped of his rank and title. The over all premise of 
 the game is earning the right to regain your rank. Again you must go through the fundamentals of 
 the assassin. In doing so you will be transported to ancient Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre. Three 
 crucial cities in the history of the crusades. Environments are beautifully rendered, gameplay 
 is smooth (and with practice and flow very smoothly) , storyline is deep and involving with a surprisingly 
 high amount of conspiracy twists spanning the course of several hundred years. Everything you have 
 heard is true. There is a science fiction twist to this game. But to understand it you will have 
 to play the game. I can honestly say nothing bad about this game. It is fun, deep, and involving. 
 This is one of those games you should not pass on. it is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game shows an insane amount of effort and polish in every single area except one: the gameplay 
 itself. Anyone who watches five minutes of the game will instantly fall in love. The more time 
 that passes, the more disappointing the game gets.
  
  The first thing that I should mention is that the game plays far more smoothly than any other game 
 I have ever seen. The controls are, hands down, the best I have ever used. Each move flows together 
 and moving around the city is seamless. After getting used to the controls, anyone will be running, 
 jumping, and climbing around the city in ways that were once thought impossible for a video game. 
 This game, more than any other, really makes you feel like anything is possible while still being 
 firmly based in reality.
  
  The combat is quite entertaining at first, but looses it's appeal as the game continues on. It 
 takes some practice and is definitely not a button masher. Each strike has to be launched at the 
 perfect time and you must be prepared to defend yourself at all times. The more practice with the 
 fighting system, the more you will learn to exploit it. It is actually possible, with a minimum 
 of effort, to block every single attack and counter each for a killing blow. As the game moves 
 on, your health increases and it eventually gets to the point where you have so much health that 
 it is completely impossible to die. I could easily take on thirty or more enemies without breaking 
 a sweat. I have yet to die in the game and in the last half I never dropped below three quarters 
 health.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is the complete lack of variety. The game progresses the same 
 way in every level. You begin with the name of your target and a the city where they are located. 
 You must go to the city and gather information in order to narrow down where and when to strike. 
 In order to find out how to proceed, you must climb towers located around the city and scope out 
 the surroundings. Doing this will show you where to begin nearby investigation missions. It is 
 a cool idea at first, but there are only a few different types of towers. After a short time, you 
 begin climbing the same tower that you have scaled ten previous times in different locations. The 
 investigation missions are completely identical for every level in the game and do nothing to progress 
 the story. Some have you sit on a bench and eavesdrop on a conversation that supplies you with 
 completely useless information. Another asks you to pick the pocket of a particular person, but 
 you never even find out the use for what you steal. The most asinine was the mission where a person 
 asked you to gather flags that he lost. He somehow lost them across the rooftops along a path that 
 leads in a circle straight back to him. Oh, and he needs them back in three minutes. Each time 
 I had to do one of these missions (and I had to do it many, many times) , I couldn't get over how 
 dumb the premise was. It would be fitting in a game like Grand Theft Auto, but not in a game that 
 is trying to take itself this seriously. There are several other missions and some are fun at first. 
 After doing each of them over and over, the game looses all it's appeal. The final assassination 
 mission for each level tries to mix things up by throwing in cutscenes, but completing each breaks 
 down to running straight at your target and fighting a sword fight against a group of guys just 
 like the hundred other fights you have been in leading up to that point. All the information that 
 you just spent the last few hours gathering is completely useless, other than the actual location 
 of the target. The game is so mind-numbingly repetitive that I had lost all desire to continue 
 playing after about halfway through.
  
  The cities themselves don't help keep things interesting. Each of the four look almost identical. 
 I have played several hours in each city. If you dropped me into the middle of one of them at random, 
 I would have no idea which it was. From a realism standpoint, this makes sense since they are all 
 geographically close and in the same country. From a gameplay standpoint, they are just boring. 
 Most every building is generic and there are very few structures that stand out. The inhabitants 
 of the cities are quite varied. Rarely will you see the same character model more than once on 
 the screen even in a crowd. The problem is that each mission type usually begins with the same 
 character model. For example, every flag gathering mission is given by guys who look exactly the 
 same. Even in the missions with different people, the same recordings are used for starting and 
 completing each. If one more citizen in need of help tells me he wishes his sons were more like 
 me, I swear to God I am going to stab someone (which is actually quite likely since there is really 
 no penalty for killing innocents) .
  
  The story itself is a fairly cool idea. The game throws an interesting twist at you early on that 
 I don't want to spoil for you. Unfortunately, the only time anything story related happens is at 
 the end of each assassination and the rest of the time is spent repeating the same boring content.
 
  
  The game is a great idea that is very poorly executed. It is worth a rental because no other game 
 makes you feel like such a badass. Normally I hate short games, but I actually wish this one was 
 short instead of being artificially extended by repetition. It has a lot that is worth seeing but 
 will start getting old after a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiggums
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. The characters, the investigations, the mystery. Assassin's Creed 
 takes stealth to a whole new level.
  
  PROS:
  Addictive Gameplay - The ability to use multiple button/trigger combinations to create a variety 
 of attacks, maneuvers, and skills make this game's general playability addicting. The fact that 
 you can dive through merchant stands, climb almost any ledge or wall, and use the people and surrounding 
 environment to keep hidden and stealthy is astounding.
  
  Weapon Selection - The weapon selection in the game is also quite varied. You can use your basic 
 close-range long sword, short sword, or fists, or go long-range for enemies (like archers) with 
 throwing knives. There's also the assassination option, using a hidden blade and walking up to 
 the foe from behind, stabbing him or her without alerting others around you. Not to mention that 
 each weapon has certain combo attacks, and that the hidden blade has dozens of different applications 
 (from a leaping stab to face-to-face kills) .
  
  Story - The story in Assassin's Creed is immersive, to say the least. You quickly get sucked into 
 the mystery. Each major assassination is just another piece of the puzzle, and with each piece 
 rises more questions. Who's pulling the strings? Why are these men all connected? What is their 
 goal? Eventually, it culminates in one grand and epic finish, against unlikely foes.
  
  CONS:
  Glitches - Not as bad as it sounds (I lack better words) . There will be many times that 
 you can't quite make Altair face the direction you want, and there will also be times that you 
 find yourself stuck in random objects like trees. It doesn't happen often, thankfully.
  
  Repetition - Perhaps the biggest gripe I hear over this game is that it is too repetitive. True, 
 I'll give you that. It is essentially the same thing over and over, head into a town, gather information, 
 save a few citizens, and go assassinate your target. It will get somewhat dull, and after 2 or 
 3 assassinations, it's no longer challenging in the least. You'll notice, I consider this game 
 easy, since the difficulty starts off somewhat hard, and progressively gets easier.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  Overall, the game is very, very good. If you don't mind a little repetition, and 
 can handle a few glitches here and there, you'll find this to be a wonderful, and addicting game. 
 I give it a 9.5/10. Looking forward to the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very interesting game in many ways. It is a fictional spin on historical 
 events. It is a good action-platformer game. It is a cool sci-fi story. And overall, it is a great 
 game to play if you are into fictional historical sci-fi platforming action games!
  
  Visually, the game is very pretty. Particularly when you scale to the tops of the tallest towers 
 and survey your surroundings. However, the game's artistic style tends to be a little washed out. 
 Everything tends to have a bluish-white hue which eliminates any vibrancy the game might have had. 
 But the game engine renders large crowds, cities and environments very well.
  
  The gameplay is fairly open, where you can choose your own path for the most part. Ultimately, 
 your task is to eliminate several key targets. The way you do that is by exploration and gathering 
 of information. You might consider these side-quests, and there are quite a few variations. However, 
 by the end of the game, you might be tired of the repetition. But the actual assassinations are 
 kept interesting with twists on the locales or methods you use to get to your target.
  
  The controls are fairly intuitive, and once you get to know them, you will be running across the 
 rooftops like any good anime ninja. Combat is pretty good with a mix of weapons, attacks, blocks 
 and combos. And the stealth portions work well, and allow you the opportunity for some serious 
 sneaky assassinations. Once in a while, you will get overwhelmed when more than a few guards jump 
 into the fray. But that's actually somewhat realistic. The only problem with that is near the end 
 of the game when you are forced into a combat with multiple foes. So depending on how good (or 
 careful) you are, you might run into a little frustration here.
  
  There is a pretty cool sci-fi plot wrapped into all the historical assassinations. And this extra 
 plot adds to the overall game instead of giving it some weird dual personality like it might have. 
 The ending of the game has an interesting, and not entirely predictable turn of events. But like 
 any new IP, the game ends with plenty of plot threads for the inevitable sequel. But I for one 
 am looking forward to that sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:14 pm PT
Review:  MAN this game is pretty. It's like Ubisoft drew a really good picture, but intead of just showing 
 it too you they photocopied it 10,000 times and taped it all over your room. Then taped it all 
 over you. Then taped it all over themselves. Then ran out of tape....
  
  Very good game, great voice acting by all major characters, the combat system is incredibly easy 
 to pick up and makes you feel amazing when you accidentally fall off a roof, aggro 10 guards, but 
 kill them all with a combination of counters and overpowing whacks. In combat you have a choice 
 of a few different weapons, with each its own strengths and weaknesses, and, more importanly, animations 
 for killing blows. 
  
  Running across the roof tops is a blasty, and reminds me of the old Prince of Persia days. Its 
 very smooth with little punishment for falling, everyone just thinks you're really weird. But why 
 shouldn't they? You're wearing a white robe, with a white hood, and holding a sword, wait... why's 
 he have that sword out? Oh well, I'll just keep carrying this water jug on my head.
  
  The assassin-y part is incredibly fun. The feeling of gathering information about the target, his 
 tendencies, history, background, and where he'll be, feels necessary and doesn't feel too redundant. 
 Then the actual killing sequence, where you make sure you don't get noticed before jamming a knife 
 into the target's neck is INCREDIBLY satisfying when done right, though it can be very difficult. 
 But that's what makes it all the more amazing when executed properly (get it? Executed? Bwahaha) . 
 Though how the targets continue talked after I sliced open their neck is beyond me. 
  
  The biggest downfall is repetitive-ness. Though each mission is different technically, you go to 
 a combination of 3 cities, 3 times each in rotation. By the third visit to each city, I began to 
 grow weary and hoped for the end of the game, which is never good. But the house jumping and combat 
 kept me playing, which is good. 
  
  Also Lucy totally wants me. It's a secret. Don't tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  - Unbelievable parkour chase system? CHECK!
  - Wide array of deadly sneak attacks? CHECK!
  - Ultra satisfying fighting system? CHECK!
  - Breathtaking level design and scenery? CHECK!
 
  - Beautifully integration of game features with story? CHECK!
  - Anus tightening jumps and leaps of daring with a simultaneous lack of annoying jump puzzles? 
 CHECK!
  - Ability to replay your favorite missions? CHECK!
  - "Sandbox" freedom? CHECK!
  
  SWEET! The perfect action game right? Slow down...
  
  - Annoyingly slow storyline sequences? 
 Check : (
  - Over the top yet anticlimactic ending? Check : (
  - This is getting to feel repetitive? CHECK : (...
  
  Very very solid 8/10 for this title, but 
 be warned. Its more like playing a long, repetitive (though satisfying) movie. Once you've finished 
 the game, there's very little reason to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb-of-God
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  great game in terms of combat. loved it X ) but it felt very bland doing the same routine over 
 and over. ie such as climbing from perch to perch to find your next target... cool at first but 
 after about the 20th time it gets old, and is a requirement to preceed through the story if you 
 have never played. it becomes very bland and takes away from the combat. also i thought that the 
 assassin could do with an upgrade on skyward kills that made the prince of persia series so fun.
 
  
  the story itself is entertaining and very well done. and the graphics are so crisp it feels like 
 you are there in atmosphere. since all dialogue and sequences are ingame this is also very good. 
 the voice acting is very well executed.
  
  very fun game but with a repetive downside. though it was great the feel was tooken away, a problem 
 i hope they fix in any follow ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holabendez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  After playing Assassin's Creed my immediate thought was how incredibly repetitive it was. The game 
 looks beautiful and the gameplay elements are simple and fun, the parkour aspects for example are 
 great, but at the end of the day there isn't enough to do, and the game makes you do the same things 
 over and over again. But for the fact it was relatively easy to do and I was making decent progress 
 through it I might've given up, but the story was interesting enough to have me see it through.
 
  
  It felt like it wasn't enough of a full game, and they had to pad it. Which is a shame to say that 
 because it's otherwise quite impressive. Three very large, living breathing cities and compelling 
 (enough) fight mechanics, and unbeatable parkour acrobatics. Maybe the sequel will get it to where 
 it needed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is like a box of chocolates. Some chocolates are good like the wide open world, 
 great graphics, interesting story, and cool game mechanics. But then you get those chocolates you 
 can't stand like repetitive gameplay, fetch quests, and sometimes poor AI. Basically Assassins 
 Creed boils down to this... go here, get info, pickpocket, kill man rinse and repeat. Sure the wide 
 open world is expansive and well detailed and it never gets old jump knifing guards on rooftops, 
 but the game leaves you wanting more by the end. I did quite enjoy using the Prince of Persia inspired 
 jumping and running abilities about town and freaking out townspeople. Not to mention if you get 
 spotted by guards often monks will come by and you can blend into them for cover which is quite 
 neat in my opinion. Great game and a great concept, but limited quest variety and short single 
 player helps push Assassins Creed into more of a rental then an actual buy. But hey its your money 
 I just suggest spending it on more worthwhile long term games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolves95
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed
  
  Great. The game itself is very very good. The swordplay is amazing, it's a great idea, a good ending 
 and overall worth a sequel.
  
  GOOD: This game has ALOT of good points. First, the graphics are truly good. The swordplay and 
 counters look great and the sounds are fantastic.
  
  ALSO THE FREE ROAMING IS EXCELLENT
  
  BAD: Well, It is a good game but some faults. Firstly your great Assassin probably the best 
 who could fend of 50 guards can't swim? The controls could get confusing say some and also it is 
 so repetitive. You have to make 9 Assassinations before the Climax and it's all the same:
  
  First visit the village the Target is in.
  Go to Your Bureau for Infomation
  Reach a view 
 point
  Information comes up. You Pickpocket, Beat-Up and do a duty for a friend
  
  FOR 9 TIMES!
  
  That is only the Big Flop for this game
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 9/10
 
  Game-Play 9/10
  Fun 9/10
  Repetitive 7/10
  
  Overall 9.0/10
  
  A Must have if your willing to do the same thing 9 Times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to a game that's over a year old now, especially one that at the time was so hyped, 
 there is little for me to say when it comes explaining what the game's about. For those who have 
 been living under a rock, Assassins Creed sees you taking the role of master-assassin Altair, a 
 Saracen during the period of the crusades. Set against the backdrop of King Richard and Saladin 
 battling for control of the Holy Land, taking the role of a Muslim warrior and systematically murdering 
 those aligned with the Christian templars makes for mature subject matter but Ubi-Soft's title 
 manages to handle this well. The twist with Assassins Creed comes with a modern element to the 
 story being added at the same time, making the story almost sci-fi in some ways but again, while 
 most of you probably know the twist, I'll leave these details at that in case for some it will 
 still be a surprise.
  
  Altair's adventures follow a set structure. There are three large sandbox style cities in the game, 
 each divided into three districts which must gradually be unlocked. In each district you must complete 
 a number of tasks in order to get enough information on your target to take them on in a variety 
 of scenarios. The tasks required to gather information are all basically the same. You have to 
 eavesdrop on people (simply sit on a bench and listen to them) , interrogate people (follow them 
 and beat them up) , pickpocket people (pick their pockets unnoticed) , collect some flags or assassinate 
 some generic guards within a time limit. The game's main flaw is that it does become repetitive 
 to do these tasks over and over, but I found it isn't a big downer on the experience as long as 
 you take time out to explore (there are various achievements to be gained by doing so) and do the 
 "save the citizen" side missions which result in some bloody sword fights. Once the information 
 is collected you proceed to go to where your target is and after a cut scene you kill them, sometimes 
 stealthily and sometimes in fully fledged bloody combat (depending on if they see you or not usually) .
 
  
  Combat in AC is one of the game's key strengths made all the more enjoyable by the game's fantastic 
 controls. As you progress, lethal counter moves can be learned to slay even more guards and make 
 you a killing machine to be feared by all if you get good at the timing of counter strikes and 
 blocking. Altair can die fairly easily though evidently coming from the "made of jelly" school 
 of male lead as opposed to the "built like a brick with a shot of adrenaline up its backside" Marcus 
 Fenix side of things, so it's imperative to master all your weapons and skills quickly. 
  
  One of the finest achievements behind AC is the game's general look and animation. Never has a 
 character moved so fluidly as Altair as he leaps from rooftop to rooftop, beam to beam with grace 
 and realism. It's almost breathtaking to see him leap around animated so well, and I never thought 
 I would say that about a video game's technical prowess. The visuals of the city itself look amazing 
 too, with every building reachable, almost every wall scalable and every citizen on its streets 
 reacting to your actions, begging for money, running in panic and occasionally slumping to the 
 ground with a hidden blade in their eye. "It wasn't me Mr. Guard.. honest!"
  
  To be honest with you, other than the repetition, there is little to fault Assassins Creed. It's 
 lots of fun, has a good storyline and it's satisfyingly violent to shove swords in peoples necks. 
 If you haven't tried it, it's well worth picking up now at a bargain price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop36
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I began keeping up with this game back in i think 2005 or so when it first showed up on the radar. 
 When it was supposedly supposed to be PS3 exclusively and not 360. Well I was going to buy a PS3 
 just to play the game lol but thats now how it ended up. Well I'll keep it simple and list the 
 pros and cons:
  
  PROS:
  --great graphics and atmoshphere
  --good voice acting
  --some chases can be thrilling 
  --you feel powerfull, taking out whole groups of soldiers
 
  --the horse riding looks good
  --lots of npc's walking around
  --immersive storyline
  
  CONS
  --the combat gets old after awhile
  --gets annoying having to pickpocket throwing 
 knives everytime you run out
  --some missions are repetitive or overly difficult
  --you cant climb "everything" and its annoying to run into something and have to find somewhere 
 else to climb
  --the gaurds can be alerted for stupid things, or totally oblivious ( kill someone right in front 
 of them)
  --he cant swim at all
  --not really alot to do
  
  Overall this is a good game with some cool ideas and a unique storyline and setting. For that I 
 give it credit. But it couldve been so much more. And in the end you dont have as much freedom 
 as you thought you would. The highpoint of the game for me was the riddles at the end allover the 
 room. Sets up some very interesting questions for the sequals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a bad game, it was just HYPED SO MUCH AND GAVE YOU NOTHING.... let me explain
 
  
  Story- The story is not too bad, what keeps you going is knowing they are making a Trilogy with 
 the Assassin's Creed. So hopefully the story gets more excited and intense. Overall for this game, 
 you go around and kill several different people who have power.......... really thats it. Oh, and 
 you play as the Assassin's heir in the future and are hooked up to a machine to replay the memories 
 of the Assassin. Which is pretty creative i think, since these other people are wanting to get 
 a hold of the memories to find..... something.....
  
  Gameplay- This is where the game goes down hill. At first the gameplay is really neat, but after 
 the next couple hours or so you are asking yourself "Wait, didnt I just do this?" The gameplay 
 is VERY VERY REPEATITIVE, you go in different cities, scope the land on big towers and look for 
 the guy to kill, find him, kill him, then RUN LIKE HELL!!!! And repeat this process until you beat 
 the game, cause that is all there is to it. Also its crazy how the city is so big and there are 
 so many shops, but you cant buy stuff or anything, i thought that was a let down, i figured a HUGE 
 WORLDED GAME WITH SO MUCH FREEDOM would put a few places to buy equipment would be in there, but 
 no. What was really annoying, is how they hyped this game saying there was a bunch of ways to get 
 passed a place with guards, well there are only 3, no more, no less. You can either fight your 
 way through, find a place to climb around them, or find some monks and fit in with them, which 
 looks kinda dumb cause out of the monks you are the only one with swords, daggers and all this 
 other assassin stuff belted to you. BUT, its just a game. What IS neat is that people actually 
 see your actions and react to them.
  
  Graphics - Not bad.
  
  Sound- Good.
  
  I could go on and on about this game with all the little things that make this game bad and good. 
 
  
  Overall, this game is ok, might be better to just rent, the more i think about the gameplay and 
 how repeatitive this game was it gives me a headache. It was just a disappointing game and all 
 I have to say is that IT COULD HAVE BEEN A LOT BETTER!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok here's my story, I'm using game fly. For anyone who doesn't know what this is ill tell you. 
 It is a very helpful rental system where you basically rent a game, beat it, send it back, and 
 then they send you the next game on your list that you pick. This was a very high anticipated game 
 so I figured that I would love it! So I plugged it in and realized that the game storyline is actually 
 about a guy who has memories of an assassin and some stupid scientists have kidnapped you and put 
 you in a high tech machine called an animus. This recalls the memories of his ancestors and you 
 guessed it his ancestor was an assassin. So the graphics are nice the voice acting is repetitive 
 and frankly the entire game is repetitive! You will get so burned out on the same exact pattern 
 that eventually you will just give up. I think that the designers know that it was too much of 
 the same thing so they made dang sure that the game was not too long therefore posing another problem. 
 This game has the right idea and the right intentions but you will probably be extremely disappointed. 
 So if you are a person who rents games a lot I think that it would be a good idea to rent it. Just 
 please people DO NOT, I REPEAT, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RmStriker17
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:01 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I had a blast playing this game! However, there are some major flaws 
 that really make it lose it's enjoyment. The graphics are great in this game. The gameplay and 
 fighting are also excellent. It's awesome being Atair, a beast who ascends to the top of buildings 
 and sneaks behind my unsuspecting victim only to slit them right in the back. Or deflecting an 
 attack and then watch as the camera angle alters to see the blood gushing out!
  
  
  Having said that I'll now get into some problems I encountered:
  1. It's repetitive. I beat the 
 game and have very little desire to play it again. The plot gets soooo old. The people you help 
 in the street always say 1 of 2 things after you help them. All the main guys you kill have the 
 same message!
  2. Doing other tasks besides main story are completely irrelevant! Helping citizens or collecting 
 flags don't affect the gameplay at all! The creators really need to put some incentive behind completing 
 these tasks!
  3. The drunks in the street are so obnoxious. I understand if they sometimes throw you off randomly, 
 but for some side missions they are continuously harassing you... You try to just walk by but since 
 the drunk pushed you the po po are alerted by this. 
  
  All and all I did enjoy the game... I won't discourage you from buying it but the replay value 
 may not be that great if you're on a tight budget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boba_ben
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is good, but thats all it is. The game revolves around the religious crusade were 
 you take on the role of an assassin, who is sent to assassinate seven leaders of that time, yuu 
 achieve this by eaves dropping on passers by, pick-pocketing and questioning different people. 
 As the story developes you find out that the person who is giving you these targets is behind all 
 of the bad goings on. Once the game has been completed you can replay the past levels you have 
 completed, although this does get a bit repetative and boring. You can, however choose to search 
 for the 300 flags that are scattered around the entire map or drop from every view point. There 
 arnt many enemies in this game and most of them aren't very powerful, but if you do manage to get 
 into too much trouble, you do have the ability to blend in with scolars. This game is rumoured to 
 have a sequel which will hopefully be better than this and won't be any worse.
  Overall, this game is a basic game and if it wasn't for the violence, it could easily be done by 
 a young kid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulcf85
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I received this game as a Christmas present, didn't really know how well i would like it since 
 its not exactly my type of game. I got playing the game and loved it from the very first stealth 
 kill. It starts out pretty easy, helping you gain knowledge of the controls, and how things work, 
 growing more difficult as you play. The graphics are really great, the game helps are actually 
 helpful, such as the practice outside arena outside of the Assassins main holdout. I love jumping 
 from rooftop to rooftop, and climbing up the walls, it feels a little like spiderman in that manner, 
 but personally way better. love the stealth killing. 
  I dont really have anything to complain about so far, but i have heard that the ending is a little 
 confusing. Just going to have to wait and see what i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizmo12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a great tale in a setting avoided by most game developers. Its set during the 
 crusades and the settings are well crafted and realistic. You wont be able to take your eyes of 
 it at first as free running is great fun, assassinations are great fun and riding a horse for the 
 first time will fill your mind with joy. Until of course the repetitiveness sinks in. You start 
 to find travelling on horseback a bore, assassinations a repeat of the last and the one before 
 that. Most people either run through this game very fast and are fine or get bored halfway. Or 
 get stuck if your that bad at it. I ran through it pretty fast but it did get dull in the middle 
 until the spice-full end made brought that joy all back again. I would reccomend this game to fans 
 of any genre and its definitely a must have game. But I would suggest taking a break from it at 
 the halfway point, put it back on your shelf and play a different game for about 4 days. Then pick 
 it back up and complete it, that cures the repetitive bore for me and most people.
  
  Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelhokie123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:38 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game about a guy named Desmond Miles, a bartender, who is kidnapped by a 
 corporation called Abstergo. Abstergo is one of the largest companies in the world and plans to 
 use Desmond to test a new invention called the animus. The theory behind the animus is that animals 
 carry the memories of their ancestors in their DNA, and that those memories can be accessed through 
 DNA. (For instance birds know where to migrate because they carry the memories of their parents, 
 so they know where to go.) The animus is supposed to be able to access those memories.
  
  When Desmond is put into the animus, it accesses the memory of his ancestor, Altair. An assassin 
 who lived in the Holy Land in the time of the crusaders. He is part of an assassin's clan that 
 kills the people that they believe threaten the peace of the Holy Land. And he is the character 
 you play. You start off on a mission in which you break the rules of the "assassin's creed," and 
 you are punished by being stripped of your weapons and high rank in the clan. You have to kill 
 a bunch of people to regain your rank and weapons. The procees of how you do that gets really repetitive, 
 but it's always fun.
  
  If you want a fun game that isn't like any other game, get Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehrman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed brought you in with an attractive story and game concept. I mean, who doesn't 
 want to be a stealthy assassin running around killing whoever you please and then using the roof 
 of a building as your diving board to safety? But the let down comes after playing for a few hours 
 when you realize that you have been doing the same actions and events over and over again in each 
 town.
  
  [Breakdown]
  Graphics: 9/10
  One of the stronger suits, the graphics of AC really shines. It really helps give the player a 
 feeling being there with Altair stabbing an unsuspecting guard in the back. The detail is truly 
 stunning.
  
  Sound: /10
  
  Story: 9.5/10
  I really liked the story in AC. The Animus was a great addition and added some conspiracies to 
 the game. Along with not giving all of the answers right away, it adds a sort of mystery to be 
 left for the players to form their own predictions and thoughts. It really helps you get involved 
 in the game.
  
  Concept: 9/10
  With this new generation of gaming it really seems like developers need to shock and awe their 
 players or else they won't get enough popularity. Assassin's Creed is perfect for this. How could 
 anyone resist the amazing thought of running around freely and killing people with a hidden blade 
 and running around rooftops with the push of a few buttons?
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The controls were great. It was easy to do all of Altair's fancy jumping and scaling, which is 
 extremely important, because if you can't successfully use these moves it only hinders your chances 
 of catching an enemy or getting away to safety. It was very fun climbing all of the buildings and 
 surprise attacking your enemies and even jumping from extreme heights into bales of hay. It just 
 seemed like the same thing again and again. The fighting was pretty cool, especially when you get 
 the counter-attack ability so you can execute precise (although automated) maneuvers to kill your 
 enemies one by one. It just wasn't as interactive and fun as it could have been. 
  
  Replay: 6.5/10
  I had trouble getting through the game in one run doing the same thing over and 
 over; I can't see myself doing it again. Yet, there is still some replay value to an extent. If 
 you're one of those overachievers or have lots of time on your hands then going for another run 
 to collect every flag and do every vigilante/rescue, it'll suit your purpose.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  In the end, I really enjoyed the game and would at least recommend renting it 
 to check out the awesome agility of Altair. The story is also catchy. I know I'll be coming back 
 for more when the sequel hits the shelves. Hopefully they can give the gameplay a little spark 
 so it doesn't seem as repetitive. The fighting (sword vs. guard) could use a makeover, too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a good game but that might change over the time you play it. It is good enugh 
 to play but when you get bored of it, it is most likely not going to bring you back around. you 
 will enjoy it quite a bit and as the gane goes on you will get things that were taken from you 
 (you will understand when you play) but when you are all done gettign your stuff back you seem 
 to lose interest because what you have been playing for is now over. But you will still like playing 
 it just because of the conter attacks and assassinations. So you will play this game and get your 
 money worth but dont spend more that $25 on it. A good 8.5/10. Oh yeah sorry for this being so 
 late. Well for the people that have read this and haven't played the game go out and rent it or 
 but it for a cheap price and you won't be sorry until the end that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gun-runner
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I will start with the good things about Assassins Creed:
  
  The world is very lively, it feels as if you weren't there things would just keep on going. The 
 game has you assassinate 9 main targets in the cities of Acre, Jerusalem, and Damascus; however 
 there is also the in between area called "The Kingdom" and Masyaf for you to explore. 
  
  The environment that you will be playing in looks incredible, oh and you see that loose board above 
 the doorway? Oh my you can begin scaling the building using that! Almost every building can be 
 climbed in some way on all 4 sides of it. My favorite part about the sound is being around a block 
 of houses and still hearing someone give a speech to a large group of people and you can hearing 
 them cheering.
  
  Controls in this game are very friendly for new players, you can switch between weapons, running, 
 and free-running very easily.
  The selling point in this game for me was when I climbed to my first view point and took a look 
 around the world that surrounded me, very beautiful.
  
  I haven't played this game too much so I could not really see any flaws but I'm sure any flaw will 
 be overshadowed by all of the wonderful things in Assassins Creed. The story is hard to walk away 
 from, go pick this up if you already haven't I give Assassins Creed a 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamefreak375
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed was very addictive from the moment I started playing it. Controls are very sharp 
 and you have plenty of weapons. The story was very deep and it had much suspense. Sword fighting 
 was very life like and graphic, especially counterattacks and thrusts. Missions were fun and required 
 you to use a lot of weapons, stealth and abilities. Flag collecting was hard but addictive. The 
 ending was kind of like the first two Lord of the Rings movies -- it leaves you hanging. It definitely 
 prepares the game for its sequel but it could have explained a little more. I wish there was a 
 way to skip cutscenes but that's one minor flaw. I would easily recommend this game to anyone.
 
  
  The verdict: This is probably the best single player experience I have ever played on the xbox. 
 It is a definite must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilasMars
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a wonderful multi-platform game that gamers will cherish for a long time. 
 
  
  That being said, Assassins Creed is a must buy for gamers who enjoy a great storyline and a superb 
 adventure. I will not go into detail on the background of this game, Gamespot did a great job at 
 summing it up. This game will, however, keep gamers interested for hours, even after the campaign 
 is over. The storyline is superb, the characters are interesting, the voice casting is great, and 
 the controls are easy to learn, and just feel right. 
  
  Achievements are fun to obtain, and some reveal more of the storyline gamers may have overlooked 
 otherwise. If you're interested in spending a few days playing a superb adventurous game, it's 
 well worth the 30 bucks.
  
  (If you're a PS3 owner, I suggest you look at these achievements: Hungerer for knowledge, Conversationalist, 
 and Visions of he Future. These achievements given to 360 owners reveal more storyline.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramram1993
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  i think that assasinaition games always have gd story .... i live in alepo in syria and damascus 
 is the capital of syria ... in the game they show u the real old damascus with great graphics ... 
 the old souc (market) but i dnt know about jursalem and arc ..... anyway the arabic languege is 
 gd and it makes me happy cause i can hear my languege in the game ,, even now its all cursing :P 
 ........ so any way hope that assasins creed 2 dnt have the same reapiting .... cuz the assasin's 
 1 have lot of reapiting in it story .... the game is all about : jumping , clumbing , killing . 
 assasing . help poor peopole . make the world better ... its a hard game but i beat it in i week 
 :S .... short story ..... u know what i think its a game that tryn to be like tomb raider .. but 
 its impoooooooosible ..... 
  no game can challenge tomb raieder in mysteries :D and climbing and jumping and its amazingly gr8 
 ....
  gd luck assasin's creed 2 :) hope u make it to the top 10 of xbox 360 or ps3 games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is like a cross between grand theft auto and metal gear, so is it worth playing?
 
  The story has u as altair, an assassin from the third crusade, well atleast it was suppose to 
 be like that. U r some guy that is a desendit of altair and ur in a simulation kinda like the matrix. 
 Some sciencetists kidnaped him and want to know what altair did. The gameplay is unique but feels 
 like it has been done before. U sneak around each of the 3 cities and gather info on ur target. 
 U will climp buildings, kill guards, and explore the city to catch the guy. This works well but 
 u do it 9 TIMES throughout the game. After 7th time u feel like the game is over when its not. 
 The graphics are amazing but in order to main tain a good a frame rate there r several glitches 
 and when u r in high alert mode the AI seems to be retarded. The world u have 2 explore is huge 
 and massive, which makes more painful when u have little to do besides killing and sneaking around. 
 The voice acting and sound is really good and delivers. Its hard to even complete the game because 
 u do the same stuff through out the whole game but when u do nothing cool or different happens. 
 The controls are difficult but smooth. Once u know them u will be a master of moving altair. Assassins 
 Creed is solid game but has flaws that can keep some away from playing the game but it can be a 
 masterpiece for others but i enjoyed but was able see the faults and wrongs with the game.
  
  Story: 6.5
  Gameplay: 7.8
  Graphics: 8.0
  Controls: 7.4
  Re-play Value: 6.5
  Overall: 
 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chessmaster1989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game I never would have bought had I not seen a friend playing it. However, 
 it looked entertaining, so I decided to give it a try; needless to say, I was pleased with the 
 result.
  
  Assassin's Creed is immersive and entertaining, with an unusual combat system (the combat system 
 is difficult to get used to, but works fine when you adjust to it) . However, this game is as much, 
 if not more, about stealth-you are an assassin, after all. The city's are fairly large, but objective 
 markers help to keep one from roaming too far astray, and sub-tasks, like saving citizens, keep 
 one entertained while wandering the city.
  
  The only true drawback to this game, and the reason for which I did not give it a 9 or higher, 
 is the long cut-scenes, which cannot be skipped. These would not be so bad if the audio and video 
 were not frequently out of sync, which means one often finds oneself watching five-or-more minute 
 cut-scenes that are out of sync, which gets frustrating.
  
  I recommend this game highly, although possibly one should have an alternate activity (a good book, 
 for example) to keep oneself occupied during the cut-scenes (if, that is, one does not wish to 
 watch them) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsmith16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great, original game, with impressive visuals, memorable characters, extremely 
 fun gameplay, and is overall a must have. You play as Altair, an assassin from the 12th century 
 holy land. As you play, the immersive and in-depth story will keep you guessing from both sides, 
 and you'll want Altair to win in his quest for peace. The gameplay and physics are very original, 
 and are a fantastic addition to the Xbox 360. The locations are all massive, and look extremely 
 stunning as you climb, leap and kill. Riding a horse through the Kingdom is a true feeling of freedom 
 and majesty, and it is done with great detail. The detail of the blood as it flies from the throat 
 of your enemy or target is stunning, and the best part is, nonoe of them will know what hit them. 
 Altair is an invisible one man army of impending doom, and being in control of that makes you feel 
 as if you control the fate of eveyone. Being an assassin is truely the best job ever. It is a definate 
 must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdsk8erdude
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game with some of the best swordfighting I think.
  The fighting is what makes it fun for me. I purposely attack guards to get them to follow me and 
 have great chases across the cities and get into battles against 20 guards.
  
  Well, anyway, the storyline is great. Very very interesting, and creative.
  But the missions 
 can become repetitive. You set out in a city and you climb some buildings, then you hide in the 
 crowd to pick pocket or assassinate someone, then when you get enough info on your target you set 
 out to assassinate the target.
  It; s very fun, actually. but the missions are all the same. so it gets repetitive, i kinda do the 
 missions when i feel like it. mostly i do side missions like saving citizens from guards or whatever.
 
  Its a great open world to explore though.
  The cities feel different, and everything if free for you to climb, and it can get pretty intense.
 
  Horseback riding is fun, i wished there was more of it. its the best horseback riding in anygame 
 - kills oblivion, and yes, even zelda.
  The graphics, are off the walls. Some of the most gorgeous environments you will ever lay your 
 eyes upon.
  
  Anyway, this game is great. Tons of fun, great graphics, fun to just roam around and get into fights 
 and scale buildings.
  its innovative becuase its the only game of its kind, really.
  i cant want for assassins creed 2 to come out.
  my only beef with this game is that its too repetitive. 
 thats why i gave it an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrentyBoy93
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  The first time I watched the trailer for Assassin's Creed, I loved the idea, but frankly, I didn't 
 think Ubisoft could live up to all of the hype. Well... I was completely wrong. The minute you enter 
 into the shoes of Altair, you're hooked. The game is simply flawless. Gameplay is smooth, gradually 
 becoming more and more challenging as the game progresses. Graphics are picture perfect, nothing 
 more to be said here. The controls are great, and you can even control Altair during loading sequences. 
 Also, multiple combinations of buttons allow for the player to perform different movements during 
 fighting scenes, providing a fun, highly interactive fight, rather than a regular hack and slash. 
 All of these elements are then placed into an open world, where the user can browse the environment, 
 and complete objectives as they roam their new world. All around, Ubisoft has generated not just 
 a great game, but a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dveke
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  this is an awesome game and will be one of the best games of all time. it is number 1 on my gaming 
 list an will always be. choose if you want a thrilling game. compared to other games, it is god 
 and all others are mortals. there is no need to not buy this game for it is the best. stunning 
 quality with amazing backgrounds. number 1 must buy game of the gaming world. there isnt much more 
 to say about this game except that is fenominal and that it has killer graphics that are off the 
 hook. buy this game if you feel that you are a somebody kjhkljjhl fs dajklf; s \ asdfffffffffljk; 
 gdfoipufgsddsfg sdf dfgoipduu kl s adfjkl; sdfgdfskgjldfkl; sg hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  this game looks amazing. the cities feel real, the fighting looks and feels real, its just all 
 amazing.
  
  the story sets off with an assassin who loses his rank. he needs to work his way up the ladder 
 again. he therefore goes off to kill. i dont remember which city he is sent to, but it doesnt really 
 matter, you have to go to each city 2 or 3 times. This game gets a bit repetitive. Each level is 
 the same. Go to the bureau, get your mission, go up the view points, get the information, go back 
 to the bureau, and then go kill the target. Its great for the first 5 missions. Then it gets a 
 bit boring. Plus there are a ton more guards who all seem to want to die. 
  Throwing knives at men on rooftops and hearing the crowds below scream in fear is outrageously 
 funny. It never gets old. 
  Ok this game looked great, felt great and was great. It was just a bit repetitive. And once you 
 beat it once, there was no point in playing it again, so there was nothing left to do...
  
  it is worth the 30 dollar price tag, andi encourage people to go out and buy this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Assasins creed is a good game and very good graphics. The career has a lot of stuff to do but it 
 can get repetitive. So i wouldnt recommend you to do the career twice unless you love it. Ther 
 is lots of stuff to do though like pickpocket, assasinations, and eavesdropping on people. It is 
 also very good how you can climb walls and jump of things and land in straw and it wont hurt you. 
 I reccommended it 9.0 because its great graphics and there is lots of things to do. I HOPE YOU 
 HAVE ENJOYED MY REVIEW AND IF YOU HAVE ANY MORE THINGS YOU WANT TO NO SEND ME A MESSAGE BACK AND 
 HOPEFULLY ILL BE ABLE TO ANSWER IT  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Gears_COD
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful. Thats all there is to describe this game. Whether your riding through the country on 
 a pth, walkng through the crowded city streets, or climbing way up high on a tower to overlook 
 the entire city, this game is visually stunning. This is by far the most beautiful game ever made. 
 The audio is top notch too, some of the best I've ever seen and heard in a video game. The story 
 was a very interesting one, and although the ending didn't make much sense, it was still a great 
 story. The action and sword fighting is also stellar. It is extremely satisfying to nail down a 
 counter move perfectly and watch the camera zoom in as you cut apart an enemy. I also found it 
 even more satisfying when I ran up behind an enemy and drove my hidden blade through his neck. 
 I just loved it. Although this game isn't totally perfect, it still deserves a 10 out of 10, and 
 is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  After only playing this game at the end of 2008, a bit late but i had to see why it is so good 
 and i know now. The game takes a different stance on open world games. You take control of Desmond 
 Miles a future decendent of the assassin and you are strapped into a machine that acceessed generic 
 memory by an evil company.
  But the game takes you into the shoes of Altiar, an assassin from back in the 1100's. the setting 
 is very interesting, and the plot can be quite exciting. 
  The free running around the beutifuly made citys are marvelous and make you feel really accomplished 
 when you have ran around the whole city to get to your destination. The AI are another benchmark, 
 they will react to something suspision, the will talk about you to a friend, they might throw rocks 
 at you or even call a guard. The combat is also simply and fun, espialy the assassinations with 
 your hidden blade. As you progress you get more weapons.
  Either way you should play this, it is also really short so i guess you could rent it if you wanted 
 to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  pros: great graphics and sound, pretty good although repetitive gameply, awsome combat, you can 
 do awsome sthealth kills, great stoy
  cos: one of the most repetetive games ever, terrible ending
  
  so assassins good game although 
 extremley repetitive you play as a assassin named altaer that breaks the creed (rules) it says 
 dont kill inocent people never get seen etc. most of it is set in medevil times but its actually 
 a sci-fi game you travel back in time and play as your ancestor very dumb part of the story anyway 
 the story proggreses like this you pick peoples pockets, eavesdrop, and beat people up for information 
 on where the bosses are then you go back to the h. q. and get somethin new like more knifes the 
 combat is bloody and really good you do counters and special moves that look cool the stealth kills 
 are cool with your retractible knife and the graphics are amazing i guess some people like it more 
 than others but for me its worth a rental and since its cheap maybe a purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fabler4
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  OK well, Assassin's Creed, probably one of my most anticipated titles for my 360. 
  
  At first, it was pretty cool, jumping from rooftop to rooftop, climbing towers and jumping and 
 soaring in the air... Graphics stunning, game play smooth. But then, I realized, every GOOD ability 
 had to be unlocked, same with weapons. Now I'm not saying that you shouldn't be rewarded for killing 
 big targets, but once you get the counter skill, things become useless. Dodge I used 5 times on 
 3 play throughs. The short blade though fun, just made me feel weak, so my broadsword was always 
 out. Then once i got the counter ability for the Assassin's Blade, that's all I did. 
  
  The story to me, though intriguing at first, falls flat, mainly because of the repetition. The 
 leaping from rooftops, it gets boring after you do it for the 10th time. Jumping from towers though 
 still cool, takes too long. This is Assassin's Creed right? Sure you get to assassinate high profile 
 targets, and guards and people who talk, but that's all. Most of the fighting is done with blades... 
 not daggers in people's backs. The fighting is also repetitious as you always do the same thing 
 no matter how many enemies. Counter, attack, Counter, attack or run for your life over the rooftops... 
 Which unless you hide (sometimes in plain view) is useless because your enemies are just as agile 
 as you are.
  
  The best thing about this game was the first assassination, it felt so fresh, so new, but then 
 it is the old tiresome repetitive thing over again. Run, climb, punch, collect, kill... and that 
 over and over again. Forget what i said, the best part is riding/running through the fields, then 
 getting off and having to fight 30 guys. That is fun, but not a neccesary part.
  
  In my opinion this game deserved a 7, because it did bring interesting things to the table, and 
 yes I played through it 3 times, but not for the story, only for the acheivments... I doubt I'll 
 return it anytime soon, but I know that it might gather dust. A disappointment... With all the 
 hype it stuck a knife in its own neck.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 7
  Difficulty: 5
  Story: 4
  Learning curve: Probably 30 minutes (no fighting for the first 30 so maybe longer) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenomorphus28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly amazing game; original story, based on history, highly addictive, lots of replay 
 value. I'd say the biggest boon to the combat system is the counter-kill technique, which allows 
 you to counter any opponent's move with a shove or a kill. The same fighting system however is 
 a little tight-ended in that the techniques don't always work and it gets tedious at times. The 
 climbing in the game is also good, but it also gets very tedious later on. In these politically-sensitive 
 times it would not make sense to make a game that positively highlights a faith and screws another, 
 but because the game is made by a multicultural team of different faiths, then that works out well. 
 One major problem with the game play is that the character can't swim and that caused me problems 
 with one of the bosses since I died in the water a lot on the way there. Hopefully they will enable 
 swimming for the sequel of this game. Due to its highly addictive nature, don't be surprised if 
 you spend roughly 2-3 hours just to clear out all the missions within that main mission. Lastly, 
 this game is probably one of the better fight-related games since the Zelda series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:48 am PT
Review:  Positives
  + Stunning visuals
  + Solid voice acting
  + Feels good to play
  
  Negatives
  - Action gets repetetive
  - Short campaign
  - Some fustrating moments
  - Combat 
 is easy
  
  Welcome to my review for assassins creed on the xbox 360, first of all you play as an assassin 
 in the middle of the holy wars, at the start of the game your demoted to the lowest rank for breaking 
 the creed by being a bit of a rebel and your given a task to assassinate 9 people.
  
  The story runs pretty smoothly even if your not getting all the details you'll be able to understand 
 most of it by the simple outline, bassically your given a task to go and see someone, you go and 
 see them, collect the evidence by pickpocketing or threatening and then you go in for the kill, 
 of course you'll assassinate lots more people, as your on the run for being infamous among the 
 other cities guards will constantly be on the look out for you, so any suspicious behavihour such 
 as climbing on roofs, drawing your weapon out or pushing a guard then they're onto you.
  Once they're onto you, you have several choices, run and hide or fight your way out.
  
  Graphics 
 are stunning, you go across desert like plains and through bustling cities including Jerusalam 
 and Damascus.
  All the textures are very smooth and most locations have a lot of detail.
  
  Music and audio aren't bad either, voice acting is almost perfect, they get all the arabic/far 
 eastern accents right.
  There isn't much music in the game but it suits it when there is, for example- when your running 
 away it play quite a quick and catchy drum and bass style tune.
  Sound effects are also good, the sound of 2 blades clashing is a sweet one ;)
  
  You can also 
 blend in with scholars, free run on roofs, throw knives, grab people and throw them, ride horses 
 from city to city and collect flags.
  Collecting flags go towards achievments, there are 30-100 flags in every area, collect them all 
 and earn achievments.
  
  Overall assassins creed is a good solid game on the xbox which is great value and has it's very 
 cool moments, thanks for reading, I hope this review has helped!
  ~Gormo
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paramore289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  The only thing that let this game down was the repetitive streak this game got after killing half 
 of the targets. I found myself getting bored of it and leaving it for a couple of months while 
 i concentrated on some other games and went back to playing it and completing the missions. Also 
 - theres no way of getting back into the anamus to get flags / templers etc to get achievments. 
 Instead you have to start a new game and work your way through it again. It is a brilliant storyline 
 and an enjoying play but if little things could be sorted this could have been an almost perfect 
 game! If the second assassins creed is due out soon, I would like to see them try to either beat 
 their own work and make the second one better, or just keep up with the same standard as this one. 
 However, time will tell if this is going to be a sucessfull series of games or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is truly one of the most revolutionary game to have come out. I've had this game 
 for a while but never really sat down to play. 
  
  More fool me, little did I realize what i was missing out on. The game sets out from the perspective 
 of you being a "lab-rat" so to speak. You've been kidnapped to help a medical company to find "treasure" 
 they seek. You are the key to that treasure although you don't realize it. 
  
  Lucy the Dr assist, is the sensitive person that looks after you and stops the Dr. from pushing 
 you too hard, with extra material of being able to read her e-mails, it gives you plenty of different 
 perspective in the games to look at. The depth to which the game has is outstanding. 
  
  What they are doing, is trying to access the memories of your ancestors. The things we call instincts 
 and how animals know where to go when they go and mate although they've never been there. All of 
 this in our Genetic DNA, The memories of relatives that came before us. The Animus which was created 
 is the tool for you to access the memories. 
  
  You appear as an assassin when you step into the memory. You go explore the world around you and 
 complete the missions and side quests. 
  
  The effects in this game is of top class. The creators have gone into so much detail everywhere 
 that the world looks amazing!. The graphics inside the game look almost 4D, 
  
  The only snack and which the game is not really at fault is the control system for the Xbox 360 
 seems rather clumsy, maybe I'm just used to playing these games on the PC however the game is just 
 works great and looks great on the xbox, and after playing I've gotten used to the control system 
 just fine. 
  
  The whole 2 different stories in the game you have to follow the one out side with lucy and ur 
 surroundings and the main world inside of your mind!. 
  
  This game is just one of the best you will ever! come across, I can not believe that people have 
 traded this game in. This one is one for the history books.
  
  This game has set the mark and standards which others in it's wake will have to follow for years 
 to come. Just simply AMAZING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorisSoad
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  In assassin's creed you'll play an assassin (duh) in the time of Crusades and knights. One of my 
 favourite settings. Beggars will annoy you, guards will pursue you, the poor people will beg for 
 your help when they are bullied around by the authorities. Simply said; the game feels realistic. 
 It really brings you to a time in which adventure was something common. And in that realistic world, 
 you can be the hero. How cool is that?
  
  The cool thing about Assassin's creed is probably the controls and the gameplay plus the setting. 
 Well, what else do we have in games that can make a game cool? Not that much, I suppose. According 
 to these three things Assassin's creed should be perfect. So why did I only gave it a seven? I 
 will tell you that in the end of my review. First I tell you why all the other reviewers gave it 
 nines and eights.
  
  You can climb every building in a movie-like way. Altair (the assassin you play) can jump, roll, 
 climb and fight. And at those things he is really good. Just climbing buildings which won't get 
 you any further is just plain fun. Especially when you reach the top and can make a high jump downwards. 
 You can nearly feel the cold wind flowing through your hair as your character jumps. So realistic. 
 And when you'll get in trouble with the guards (and I'm sure you will) , getting away is awesome. 
 The sky is the limit (well, at least it seems to be) . Decide how you want to flee in a semi-openworld 
 city. Make friends by helping citizens and you can be sure a couple of guys will try to stop the 
 guards when you are running through the street. But the best part about the escape will be the 
 roof-based action. Jumping from roof to roof feels like you are spider-man and every adventure 
 game should learn from this new way of gaming. It feels so intense and awesome when you are flying 
 over the roofs. There just is no way of describing that feeling with words, I'm afraid you'll have 
 to play the game yourself for that feeling. 
  
  When you need to assassinate your target, you will have to look for safe ways to get as close as 
 possible to your victim without alerting the guards. This can sometimes be tricky, but if it wasn't 
 a lot of strategy would be lost. Not that this is a really strategic game, no, but just bashing 
 your way through the bodyguards of your target is equal to suicide. or at least a long and boring 
 fight. 
  
  I hope I have made clear what I liked about this game. The realistic setting, the action and the 
 revolutionary controls which will set the new standard for action games. And if these parts where 
 the only things in the game I would give the game a 9,5 or higher. But....
  
  There are some very annoying things. One of them is the voice-acting. When you walk the roofs you'll 
 surely hear: 'You filthy thief! I'll have your hands for that!' a thousand times. And it really 
 gets frustating. You can't play in a open-world if all your NPC's don't feel like real people. 
 Because real people won't say such stupid lines over and over and over again. A small thing, but 
 a very annoying thing.
  
  And the story could have been a bit better. It isn't bad, but you won't get a bond with Altair. 
 Or with anyone in the game. The conversations were sometimes boring and the plot was disappointing. 
 The parts in the here and now were not necessary for the gameplay and didn't add anything to the 
 game. 
  
  Well, and then the major problem about this game. it all gets boring very soon. Fighting is nicely 
 done, and by timing and pressing the right button you can do some cool moves. But when you have 
 slain a fifty enemies I think you'll now all the moves and get bored with them. It's the same with 
 the rest of this game. It all is fun for once, but it gets boring soon. When you accidentely bump 
 into a guard, he'll get angry and there you go again; the great escape (for the fiftieth time) . 
 It gets annoying when you are trying to get to your target but you'll have to spend an hour fleeing 
 for guards. 
  
  Don't think I hate this game or anything. I really liked it untill the end, but on my way to the 
 ending I really was annoyed many times. The action is refreshing but soon will get boring. I'm 
 hoping they''ll change that in AC 2. 
  
  Casual/hardcore:
  Casual
  
  Violence:
  Not very violent, but there will flow some blood
  
  Pros and cons:
  + Great Action
  + Refreshing
 
  + New standard for adventure games
  - Action gets boring soon
  - The story isn't brought in a very spectaculair way
  - Weak voice-acting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zumachc85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The main story of the game is that you want peace and you have to kill all the men in your way 
 of your goal. You will use Knives, long swords, short swords, and your good old fists.
  
  This game is just simply amazing. Besides killing the main bad guys, you can work on saving citizens, 
 finding all 100 flags in each city, and just have fun scaling walls like spider-man. I have the 
 game and I played for weeks and weeks. The story line really isn't that long but just saving the 
 citizens and finding flags and Templar's, you'll be hooked for weeks. 
  
  The fighting is very easy too get into, and if you master the counter you can be very deadly when 
 cornered. If you don't want to sit there and fight the whole time, why not throw some knives to 
 make it quick and easy. One of the main fighting utensils in the game is the knife hidden up your 
 sleeve. You can be walking on a roof top and notice a guard is blocking you pull out your lucky 
 blade and shank him in the back to be sneaky or just run and jump him to get him on the back of 
 the head. It is really your decision on how to kill him.
  
  I really recommend this game to people of age of course. I hope this was helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikingz77
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is beutifally designed. It is also historically accurate. the citys are big with some 
 side missions such as save the citizen, and some other great stuff. The game contains dozens of 
 amazing counter attacks (my favorite weapon is the short blade) and one of the best parts of the 
 game is the hidden blade, where you can walk up from behind in front, or jump from above, to assasinate 
 your enemy.
  Another awesome feature is the leap of faith, which is very unrealistic, but so cool. Try jumping 
 off of the cathedral like building in acre.... its huge. This game has a great storyline with a 
 nice twist in the end. 
  The only problem in this game is the repetative play after you beat the game, there is not much 
 to do except kill (which is still great) , and capture the all of the flags which is almost impossible. 
 also you can kill the templars which may also take forever.
  Overall though i give this game two thumbs up and i believe you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starkiller529
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has many amazing features and has some pretty awesome combat and action scenes. The story 
 is great and I play it a lot even though I have beaten it already. This is an amazing game for 
 anyone who likes stealth, action, and killing people. I have played a lot of games with this type 
 of action but never like this. Ubi-soft really blew me away with this medieval themed game and 
 great graphics as well. I absolutely love when you assassinate someone and how dynamic it looks 
 the moment you do it. Overall, this game was and is still a fun experience and has a great replay 
 value even after you have beaten the game. I like how you, as Altair, can climb almost anything 
 you can see and get around any object or foe by memorizing routes and streets or specific landmarks. 
 This game is a great buy too .Now, you can get it for about 30 dollars new and about half of that 
 if you buy used. Get this game it will not dissappoint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeperMessiah44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game with incredible graphics, but has a few flaws. First off, the 
 assassinations and the graphics are the highlights of the game. The assassinations require a bit 
 of strategy and are different in situation each time. It's definitely what most people would look 
 forward to. The graphics are amazing too, very realistic renderings of old Jerusalem and such. 
 The controls are unique, have one layout of controls, and changes completely when the trigger is 
 pulled. That being said, the controls can be a bit complex, but they work out fine once you get 
 the hang of them. The combat system is a bit complex too, but also works out well. The game, however, 
 is pretty repetitive. Side-quests are composed of saving the same citizens over and over again, 
 interrogations, pickpocketing, eavesdropping, and undergoing tasks from fellow assassins. They 
 are all usually the same except for the latter. The same dialog will also be played over and over 
 again until you want to pull your uncle's shotgun on your console. It's still a fun game and worth 
 playing. Try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_ingrao
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm used to first person shooters or strategy games, but I really enjoyed the themes and flow of 
 this game. It has just the right amount of action and reality for me even though it's really a 
 fantasy based game. I think it has a great story idea with the flashbacks into time and I'm glad 
 Ubisoft decided on realistic cities and settings. Freedom to roam levels and play in you're own 
 style (silent vs obvious assasin) will give everyone a unique experience. Controls were pretty 
 simple to learn and combos weren't confusing or stessing on the fingers. After getting throught 
 the Animus tutorial, it's a pretty good game to just pick-up and start playing, though save points 
 are game defined. Only complaints I can think of so far is the inability to skip some cut-scenes 
 (or at least I haven't figured it out yet) and a few spots where the camera angles were off and 
 didn't work for me until re-centering.
  
  ... favorite move of the game so far for me is the "leap of faith". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamania
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Did you ever wanted to play a character that was imbued with the qualities of Spider Man and Solid 
 Snake that lived in the age of the Third Crusade? In Assassin's Creed, your wish is granted. But 
 it takes more than just climbing and stealth to achieve victory, especially in a world that is 
 both vibrant and alive. Even though it was released nearly a year ago, this is still a game that 
 will not be forgotten in a long time and a game worthy of discussion among your friends and family, 
 non-gamers included. 
  
  Players who either rent or purchase the game will have two stories to focus on. The first story 
 is centered around a bartender named Desmond, who is captured by a researcher and his assistant. 
 Their superiors are looking for information on something specific and thus force Desmond to retrieve 
 memories from a machine called the animus. The second story begins here, within the memories of 
 not Desmond, but of his ancestor instead. Altair is an assassin that serves under the command of 
 his master, who orders him to kill nine specific targets. These nine targets are apparently leaders 
 that are both corrupted and greedy. However, as the plot thickens, not everything you see or hear 
 is true at face value. This story is so good that players will be inclined enough to see the plot 
 to the end from start to finish. The obstacle in the story, however, lies within its conclusion, 
 serving as a cliffhanger and thus leaves a lot of questions unanswered. More importantly, the ending 
 also displays an obvious possibility for a sequel. This small complaint is brushed aside by the 
 mere fact that the game provides a strong, unique tale that involves both the world and its inhabitants 
 that are either significant or not. 
  
  In order to continue unfolding these two individual plots, players will guide Altair to three cities 
 that existed in the age of the Third Crusade - Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem. Each city has been 
 crafted meticulously and is a wonderful sight to behold. As you explore these cities, you will 
 bear witness to citizens and guards talking to each other in small corners, markets that bustle 
 with activity, along with huge, spiraling towers that can grasp the skies with ease. Since players 
 have the freedom to travel on both the streets and rooftops, they will also watch as the town's 
 guards give a few innocent citizens a hard time, listening to would-be prophets barking either 
 religious or political rants as a crowd gathers around to listen or silently, yet gently pushing 
 through an active crowd of men and women that just passing by. As you engage each city and the 
 dangers and pleasantries it has to offer, there is a common trait that exists in each of them - 
 a personality that is distinctive from the other, allowing them to be separate, yet unique entities 
 that players can't help but be drawn to, like moths to a flame. Meanwhile, their personalities 
 flows organically and naturally, changing at whim, depending on what course of action the player 
 chooses to take with Altair, for every action he executes will not be forgotten within their walls.
 
  
  Had Altair functioned in a world that was realistic, but did not have fun, exciting jobs and activities 
 to pursue, then the landscape would have not been pleasant. Thankfully, the game offers enough 
 entertainment in the form of excellent platforming, energetic combat, and endless, yet stealthy 
 exploration. Since players are tasked to find these nine targets and slay them, they must first 
 gather information that unveil the whereabouts of these nine men. To accomplish this, they must 
 climb up these huge, gigantic, yet beautiful towers that are marked by an eagle flying around the 
 structure. Once you reach the top, players can gain a bird-eye's view of their surroundings, thus 
 enabling new missions to open up. Some of these missions require you to sit on a bench and eavesdrop 
 on several citizens who possesses important knowledge. Other times, you are required to follow 
 a particular fellow and interrogate him by roughing him up a bit via combat before he gives in 
 and spills the beans or having to pickpocket other men who carry special letters or maps that may 
 be useful. Even several members of your brotherhood may require your assistance in either slaying 
 a few guards that hinder their quest or ask you to capture a certain amount of flags within a time 
 limit. Initially, players may find these missions to be fun, but repetitive, perhaps a little bit 
 unchallenging. However, as you progress further in the game, the townspeople, along with the guards, 
 will begin to recognize you and not forget your deeds in the days to come. In fact, in other towns, 
 you will find yourself going for a quieter approach, especially since guards patrol the rooftops 
 in Jerusalem and elsewhere, so things eventually become tougher and more challenging for the player. 
 
  
  Should players get tired of the main quest and wish to take a break, there are optional tasks for 
 you to focus on instead. One such task is saving innocent citizens from guards that constantly 
 harass them. Your reward, for completing this task, is either a group of vigilantes that hinder 
 your enemies from following you, allowing you to escape or four scholars to appear so that you 
 may blend in and gain access to an area that you may have not checked out yet. This is a great 
 way for players to explore the simplicity and depth that makes such combat exciting in the first 
 place. In fact, there are a few ways to kill your enemies. Initially, since Altair is unfortunately 
 stripped of his rank, skills, and abilities, his temporary melee mainstay is his fist. Luckily, 
 after completing your first investigation, you regain your sword. Once you don your sword, you 
 still cannot accomplish much, except to swing your sword, to block with your sword, or grab a nearby 
 enemy and throw them back, allowing you room to breathe. As you carry out these missions to the 
 end and see Altair's orders from his master come to fruition, you'll unlock new abilities, which 
 makes combat a lot more fun, yet challenging at the same time. You are able to deflect blows and 
 counter them with ease or, if an enemy grabs you, you can counter that grab with your own. If you 
 are dealing with enemies at a distance, you can immediately unsheathe a knife and lunge it at them, 
 killing them instantly. Or, if you feel sneaky enough, you can pounce on your unsuspecting foes 
 and end their life with a hidden blade that's attached to Altair's left arm. Thanks to these various 
 options at your disposal, killing is a satisfying experience that does not get boring nor tiring. 
 
  
  Combat, however, may not the best way to deal to handle every situation you come across, which 
 is why stealth is also essential in Assassin's Creed. As you explore these cities, guards will 
 be paying more attention to your presence. To avoid this, it is best to often become one with the 
 crowd by blending in. Keep in mind, however, that there plenty of ways for you to get both noticed 
 and in trouble very quickly. For starters, if you happen to knock off pottery off of a woman's 
 head or fling innocent bystanders or drunks, chances are you will be discovered quickly. If you 
 pester the guards long enough, they will immediately give chase. Standing around and fighting is 
 an option, but it's even cooler to lure them to the rooftop, like fish being lured to a fishing 
 rod through a bait, then immediately throwing them off, one by one. Of course, if there is too 
 many to handle, finding a hiding place and quickly jumping from one rooftop to the next, before 
 jumping into a secluded hiding spot or sitting on a bench between two innocent people and allowing 
 the guards to pass by are just a few other choices to consider. You can also rely on scholars as 
 a mobile hideout as well. Being shrouded in secrecy is just as fun and rewarding as combat and 
 is considered a remarkable joy to repeat from beginning to end. 
  
  Whether it may be combating foes, exploring the city in secret, or just climbing up walls and leaping 
 across platforms, all of these actions are executed fluidly, due in part to the effortless controls. 
 There may be times when you might miscalcute the distance of a jump and end up landing hard on 
 the ground below and causing a brief scare for the townsfolk, but for the most part, the timing 
 of every move is accurate and gets the job done. Some may conisder the whole process to be a bit 
 monotous, but the truth is, since each city has something new to offer and accomplish, the feeling 
 will eventually die and the game becomes more and fun exciting. If the controls turned out to be 
 faulty and complicated, that may have not been the case. But since the developer took their precious 
 time in fine-tuning the controls, it makes it an eaiser experience for the player involved. Perhaps 
 the best news, from all of this, comes from the fact that the world designed for Altair and his 
 abilities become natural, thus allowing his newfound abilities to become all the more exciting 
 to check out once they are unlocked. 
  
  The truth is, this game is a visual masterpiece to behold, even in it's smallest detail. The world 
 is indeed alive and never sleeping, with a lot of townsfolk just walking by or chatting with others 
 while guards patrol the streets and look out for anyone that can be trouble. Even the drunks, who 
 eventually become an annoying nuisiance, are fun to watch. One cannot help but admit that some 
 of the animation, especially the citizens, tend to get a little jerky. However, the rest of it 
 never falters, even when there is chaos going on. On that note, it is also interesting to watch 
 how people react to the player's movements with Altair. If you accindently roll through a vendor's 
 market or bump into a woman whose jar falls off from their hands, landing on the ground and smashing 
 into pieces, they will immediately look at you and scold you. If you engage in a fist fight with 
 one of the bullies walking around town, they will stop and watch the action. However, should you 
 decide to kill, they will run away, screaming for the guards. And if you get spotted and try to 
 escape by climbing on the rootops, the guards will follow you until either you or the guards are 
 dead. Since it is such a vast world to explore in, players will be enticed to look in and out of 
 every nook and cranny until every part of the city is seen in it's fullest. 
  
  Even if the visuals are impressive, the sound quality is just as impressive, if not better. As 
 you are walking the streets, you'll hear the cries and pleas from beggars or those working in vendors 
 and trying to pull through with a sale. If you are on top of buildings, you ears will be hearing 
 a chorus of chattering birds and the soft, calm winds, even a stray dog barking in the distance. 
 The good news is that the game only tells you what you need to hear, like an innocent bystander 
 crying for help when the guards harass them or when guards spot the dead bodies of their comrades, 
 searching around their surroundings and asking who is responsible. Of course, you are bound to 
 hear typical clangs between weapons and the death cries of those who are assassinated as well. 
 Even so, every meticulous detail put into the sound makes the package more complete than before. 
 What follows in its trail is a musical score that is both haunting and melodic, easily fitting 
 in with the times of the 12th Century. Should you be chased or engaged in combat, the music rises 
 and fills the air with intensity, but dies once the situation has been solved. The actors do a 
 surperb job, with the exception of Altair himself. Some players may or may not like personality 
 that much, especially in the beginning. Over time, however, they may grow and actually have a change 
 of heart. That said, the voice acting for Altair should have been given more polish. Even so, the 
 actors do a great job in delivering their lines, even the non-important characters as well. 
  
  For every game that has ever existed, there is bound to be a few faults and for Assassin's 
 Creed, this is no exception. For one, the articial intelligence is weak. Instead of not giving 
 in to the pressure, a few guards choose to run away and escape from the battle or give up the chase 
 when they cannot find you. It would have been wiser if Ubisoft had strengthned the artificial intelligence 
 in order to increase the challenge and make things interesting. That said, the boss fights become 
 a monotous process to endure, although each situation is different. You may have to take out a 
 few archers that were ordered to kill the innocent first or you may have to find a different way 
 to sneak into the whereabouts of your target. But once you catch up to the target and kill him, 
 that's all there is to it really. Yet it is fun to pounce on them when they are not aware of your 
 presence and executing the kill - there is great satisfaction to be had for that accomplishment. 
 Even so, the process is indeed tedious and offers little challenge. Finally, the story in itself, 
 while fantastic, drops the bombshell not too long after you get started and ends up being predictable 
 right from the beginning. With each kill, you'll hear the same information, although worded differently. 
 Once the ending comes into play, it all becomes for naught, as it opens up new questions and makes 
 the gamer wait for a possible sequel, which has been recently teased by Ubisoft not too long ago. 
 But the story, thanks to its voice acting and nicely-written dialogue, tells a tale that you would 
 like to revisit from time to time, like an old favorite movie or book you enjoy going back to. 
 
  
  Despite all its flaws, Assassin's Creed is a game that will not be forgetteon for awhile. Even 
 if you manage the beat the main quest around twenty hours or more. then go back to earn the achievements 
 by completing other tasks, there really isn't much to accomplish. As for what version you would 
 be picking up, the Playstation 3 or XBox 360 versions offer little difference from the other, so 
 you'll be buying or renting the same game without any extras added. Either choice, however, will 
 leave you a satisfying impression and entice you to come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobie2games
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed had a great trailer and I bought into the hype, but ultimately it was good game 
 that fell short. There are good things about Assassins Creed, but I don't understand the 9.0 rating 
 of this game and I actually blame this score for me wasting $60 on this game that I have no interest 
 in finishing. First of all the graphics are absolutely beautiful and the cities are breathing with 
 people and looks like a living breathing city. People are carrying pots, beggars come up to, drunks 
 push you, and guards are placed throughout the city. Climbing and scaling buildings; and jumping 
 between roof tops is probably one of the most fun of the game. Sword fighting is also very enjoyable 
 with fun to look at counters and fighting and you have other weapons such as: a hidden knife, a 
 mini blade, and throwing knives that are also fun to fight with. The AI is pretty good also with 
 people in the town reacting to a dead body and guards noticing you and chasing you. But I kind 
 of don't like how guards chase you, because your suppose to be this acrobatic amazing assassin 
 and the guards are climbing the buildings and jumping across them just as good as you. But that's 
 just gets annoying if your really nit picking because it is a blast have people throw rocks at 
 you and chase you. But what makes this game bad is the actual game-play over time. Being an assassin 
 in this game means you go across the cities to eaves drop, pick pocket, and climb buildings before 
 you assassinate your target (and the missions become just boring before you kill your target) . 
 At first its fun and enjoyable, but it's extremely repetitive and gets old really fast. I think 
 I killed 3 out of my 9 targets before I got tired of the game maybe 4. This game could have been 
 great, but should of have more variety of missions I mean you do the same old thing for each target 
 and its just boring. I am thinking about giving the game another try though because I did spend 
 $60 and now that it's like $14.99 used maybe its worth trying, but if your expecting 9.0 your going 
 to be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firehorse80
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  I know that this review is late, but I'm a casual gamer, who plays games when they are used and 
 I can actually go out and buy one. I loved this game from the time I saw the preview and reviews 
 all over the board. I never really played it too much because I was always over a friends house 
 and they, of course, wanted to play. 
  
  So I finally got my hands on this great game. I think the visuals and vastness of the cities themselves 
 are done superbly. I like how you have different ways of going about completing your missions. 
 I haven't been playing long, but I can already tell that this game is going to get repetitive. 
 I think that the concept is amazing and scaling the walls of the towns like spider-man is really 
 fun. I love the thrill of taking a leap of faith from the high peaks above. What I don't understand 
 is how you have all this, yet you cannot find another way for Altair to get information or kill. 
 
  
  Speaking of killing. I have thrown aside the true assassin's creed and just go walking into every 
 place like John Wayne. I mean, what's the point of hiding around, when I can just bust up the party 
 and then parry-strike every onslaught that comes my way. Now that I have gotten good at holding 
 the R button and timing my X button just right, I'm almost invincible. Now, nothing is perfect, 
 and I have died a time or two, but all and all, I can take on a huge amount of guards with no true 
 repercussions. I don't know about you, but if I was fighting one man, with 8 other guys....... I 
 don't see him winning. 
  
  Overall, the game is still fun. I do love kicking some Templar hyde on a one on one basis. Also, 
 there's something so fun about walking right up to the face of a "guard" and assassinating him 
 and walking away slowly as everyone gathers around not knowing what happened to him or who did 
 it. If you don't mind the repetitiveness of this game, and love explorer wide cities and just plan 
 having fun, this is an amazing game with great visuals and an interesting story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -JediPaul-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Another of Ubisoft's masterpiece: THE ASSASSIN's CREED! An stealth & action game blend together 
 at the same time and it has a unique plot: The game was set in the year 1191 AD during the Third 
 Crusade. The game has an impressive graphics too, it's enviroment has a quality detail and the 
 city is alive: you can see the citizens walk around and do their daily lives, (just like your real 
 life neighbors) .
  
  It's gameplay is like in the GTA Series, the world is so huge, you can explore the city, help citizens, 
 and fight guards. But aside from that, one of the main theme of the game is that you are an Assassin, 
 you have to find your target, assassinate the target, evade the guards, blend with the citizens 
 and scholars, and hide from the sight of your pursuers to avoid execution!
  
  The fighting is simple, yet more focused and detailed: slashing your enemies, do counter attacks, 
 grab and throw them away, and dodging their strikes. The camera perspective during fighting is 
 good to, you can see a good finishing blows during your kill in counter-attacks.
  
  But it's storyline is a little disappointing though. It's quite confusing though because of the 
 twist of the main story to another view. There is some several glitches that makes the downfall 
 to the game.
  
  And still, it is a great game to play: it's worth your money and your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes. This game. I just completed the main storyline about a few days ago and I must say that 
 I was very impressed with this game. It lived up to just about all of my expectations. It had beautiful 
 visual effects, it had superb music all through out and the action almost never let up. Since I 
 am a list kind of guy, I will make a good and bad list.
  
  Good...
  -Wonderful sound and graphics
  -Simple, satisfying gameplay and combat
  -Objectives make you 
 feel accomplished
  -Double story lines are both well tied together and equally interesting
  -Terrific voice acting
  -Removable HUD makes you feel like a true assassin
  -Bonus objectives 
 add some longevity
  -Easy gamer points
  
  Bad...
  -Fairly short
  -Confusing ending leaves you guessing and wanting more
  -Bonus objectives aren't all that fun
 
  -Some noticeable glitches
  -Some parts are frustrating
  
  Well this game can easily be beaten in a 5 day rental period, but if you want a game that you can 
 play in a few years and still have fun with, go buy it. I got my copy for only $13. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  I have just been playing Oblivion and can unhesitantly say that the horses movement in Assassins 
 Creed outshines the Donkey Kong movement of Oblivion. 
  
  So anyway, Assassins creed, by slamming this game is only a hateful vengence of what the Xbox 360 
 delivers you to a gaming platform, of course some won't like the Biblical Holy Grail setting or 
 storyline but there still should be enough in there for you to keep going for at least a good few 
 hours, a definate rent for you guys. For the rest who love this Arabian Nights landish type of 
 setting or any Prince of Persia fanboy.
  
  The storyline is well concieved, then the graphics are outstanding, and for comparisson if you 
 were to play this on a PC with min specs you would probably get crashes or game jolts. Plus its 
 so much more fun on the 360.
  
  Like I say the graphics are amazing, the actual game engine runs like an assassin in a platform 
 game and nothing else. Its a standard thing to say, but too many games out there achieve nothing 
 by being different. This game achieves it all by being different.
  
  I'm sold on this game and if they want to bring out an Assassins Creed 2, then I am game.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are revolutionary, The best you would see for years, all the light and shade 
 exactley where it is supposed to be. and every last detail is thought out in each city making everything 
 3D and not looking flat. You can see the passion and detail form miles away.
  
  Gameplay: for the 1st few hours still trying to unlock upgrades you have alot of fun thinking WOW! 
 everytime you see your assassin kill someone in a way you would never imagine. Until you become 
 incredibley frustrated when you dont wnat the guards chasing you and all your special kills turn 
 to a point when you think... oh well thats cool i guess. Then after further hours of playing you 
 become incredibley bored with the buildings you can climb around.
  
  Story: the story is really intresting at times until the incredibly long un-skippable cut scenes 
 come along. parts of the story really does make up for the gameplay but dont get your hopes too 
 high for anything to dramatic. you will hear things about a crusade nad you think that you will 
 have to fight it off or something until you start to realise. kill 5 guys run away, over and over 
 and over and over and over again... 5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestarter911
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Iam not one for stealth or tact. I hate snipers, never played Splinter Cell (never will) and id choose 
 a rocket over a sniper rifle for an assasination anyday of the week. But then i played Ubisofts 
 Assassin's Creed. And i loved it. Story's weird but stands up, combat's the **** and the characters 
 are good. I like the way the cities of Jerusalem, Damascus and so on looked and the character models 
 were good. But out of all the things that is good about this game there are some flaws. For one thing 
 switching weapons is kind of a **** using the d pad instead of the RB or LB buttons which probably 
 could have made it easier. Secondly you have to be so tact full that its kind of annoying. Who the 
 hell is suspicious of a guy running down the street? Seriously i couldn't go fast on a frickin 
 horse without arousing suspicion. Bit of a nuisance going place to place when you cant go fast without 
 hell breaking loose. But then they added this option of instantly going to the city once you visited 
 The cities of Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus which was actually a good way to ease this issue a little. But 
 aside from these issues, which arent that big of a deal anyway, this is an excellent game that deserves 
 recognition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larzarus1
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Judging by the screenshots I was quite excited by this game, however it was not long into this 
 game that I slowly lost any will to carry on, however I struggled on so I could fully appreciate 
 what had been accomplished in this game.
  
  Unfortunately the answer is not much. It has the potential to be fantastic but it is far too linear 
 and gives no options as to completing any information gathering quest.
  The structure is incredibly simple, you must attain information about how to kill your target, 
 there is only one method for each target and the amount of information you gather doesn't seem 
 to improve you're chances. There is a small selection of options as to how you acquire the information 
 and these options are identical for each target.
  As the game progresses it gets tedious to have to repeatedly do essentially the same objectives 
 over and over and I certainly got very bored after about 2 hours in.
  
  The graphics are good, the scenery is a little plain but it paints a realistic picture.
  The 
 combat, for me, is a major issue with this game. Surely an assassin will try to avoid combat and 
 kill his target without him ever knowing he's under attack but no. Towards the end you come across 
 a fixed battle where you cannot avoid having to fight a dozen heavily armed guards, hardly the 
 work of an assassin.
  It is not the difficulty that annoyed me but the fact that you aren't actually an assassin, you 
 are a sensible soldier that doesn't always fight his way into the most heavily guard fortresses, 
 he goes round, seems the only thing to do when one person is faced with a fight against many.
 
  The actual combat mechanisms themselves are average, nothing new or imaginative going on to draw 
 interest.
  
  For the sequel to appeal to me Ubisoft will have to vastly improve the structure of the game, though 
 judging by the oddly positive reviews I doubt that the second installment will appeal to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Assassin's Creed must be the best game I've ever played! Seriously!
  
  Where to start... The Story. As a Social Reject in the Creed, you have to complete tasks for your 
 leader to regain his trust as well as your rank and your Weapons. This quest to save the world 
 against evil does not go without questions which lead to more questions and then... the twist (which 
 I shall not spoil) .
  
  The Game Play makes you feel like you are truly in charge of your actions and your environment. 
 Being able to run where erever you want, climb every wall that has even a little crack in it, and 
 push around anyone you want just makes you feel totally in control and free.
  
  The graphics on the game is mind blowing. Everything and everyone has been created with the most 
 ridiculous detail ever. Altaiir is super realistic and extremely responsive, yet he does not loose 
 the feeling of being a real person. The Animation is fluent and without error. There are no loading 
 screens once you are in the cities, which helps with unhindered gameplay while you are on your 
 mission.
  
  One thing that I must complain about is the fact that the game can get a little repetitive to the 
 end. You have the basic same Sub missions and you don't have to complete them all if you don't 
 want to. Although I liked this, because I had a clear objective and I (being OCD) just HAD to complete 
 all the little sub missions before heading out to go kill the main target.
  
  Awesome game. If you have an xBox or any other console for that matter, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakan959
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  With Assassin's Creed, Ubisoft has merged cutting edge graphics with an immersive gameplay experience 
 to create an awesome third-person action game. You play the role of Altar, an important assassin 
 in the year 1191. Your mission is to assassinate some popular leaders in the Third Crusade.
  In Assassin's Creed, you have 4 weapons  a sword, a dagger, throwing knives, and the all-important 
 Assassin's Blade. It is hidden in a sheath, attached to the bottom of Altar's left arm. His left 
 ring finger was amputated to create room for the blade to pass. This is the weapon you use to assassinate 
 your targets, and maybe make a quick kill out of a guard or archer. In order to complete the game, 
 you must learn to use these weapons efficiently.
  The combat system in Assassin's Creed is great, but has a couple of major flaws, the most prominent 
 of which is the ease of combat. When you use a sword, you can simply hold down the block button 
 and become invincible. You can also just tap X when someone attacks to counter them, stunning or 
 killing them. This makes it a bit too easy to win a fight, allowing you to take 25-50 people at 
 once, and more if you're good. But, then again, you are an assassin fused with an eagle.
  Although, while it has its cons, Assassin's Creed also does have its pros. It features a completely 
 unrestricted world, where you can climb virtually everything, jump from building to building, run 
 up walls and across open spaces, and even perform leaping assassinations from rooftops. There are 
 handholds almost everywhere, allowing you to scale walls like no normal human beings could. 
  The graphics in Assassin's Creed are amazing. They combine with the unrestricted world to create 
 an amazingly immersive gaming experience. The light refraction within the game is amazing, and 
 the animations are flawless. Ubisoft took the Scimitar game engine and created graphics like no 
 game ever seen before.
  Overall, the rest of Assassin's Creed outweighs the flawed combat system, making this a must-have 
 game. Any achievement hunter will want this game, which gives you gamerscore for almost anything 
 you could think of doing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro_Impulse
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was absolutely incredible, but honestly, it lacked in a few areas that had a pretty 
 huge effect on the overall outcome. Even though this review may describe many faults in this game; 
 in the end, the goods most definitely outweigh the bad.
  
  The battle system had it's goods and bads. It was very realistic in the sense that you square off 
 with an opponent, swords drawn, and perform attacks and counters. That was a very realistic element 
 to the battle system. However, it became slightly unrealistic whenever you're squared off with 
 25 enemies, who attack you one at a time, in which case you find yourself just countering attack 
 after attack. Also, once you've mastered the art of fighting (which doesn't take long) , every battle 
 is a pushover and the game becomes entirely too easy.
  
  The gameplay and visual effects are amazing. To be able to run around an entire city where everything 
 is interactive and you can climb on anything and run into anyone with nearly perfect animations 
 was incredible. This alone is enough to play this game for hours. However, the downfall of this 
 is that everything that is interactive is only to the extent of battle: example : crashing down 
 a vendor stall : or cutting down a wooden structure : or pushing people to the ground. Another 
 downfall : Although the climbing and rooftop marathons may have amazing animation and is incredibly 
 fun, it gets terribly repetitive after you've done it for a few hours. 
  
  Yes. Repetition. That's the word I was looking for! This game, although awesome, could get pretty 
 repetitive in almost any aspect. Climbing a tower that overlooks the entire city is awesome! But 
 when every quest requires that you climb 4 or 5, it gets pretty old and eventually you grow pretty 
 tired of it. The assassin's blade that springs from Altair's forearm when performing a stealth 
 kill is dramatic, effective, and just plain awesome. But when you're mission requires you to do 
 it to 10 people over and over again, it loses it's love. Oh, and the absolute worst thing about 
 this game, is that when you load up your game, you have to go through the entire mission briefing 
 each time! Even if you've already beaten the game!... annoying...
  
  Goods:
  Amazing Graphics and Visuals
  Amazing Animation
  Huge Cities and 100% interactive landscapes 
 (climb anywhere)
  Great Story
  Cool Weapons
  Good Loading Time and Loading Screens
  Realistic Battle System
  
  Bads: 
  May get Repetitive
  No Social Interactiveness
  Mid 
 Mission Missions get Tedious
  Too Easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiragsharmadx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Fist things first this is a great game and is under rated by a huge margin. First the good stuff
 
  
  This game is one of the best looking games out there. If you where one of those people that would 
 say that the graphics on halo 3 where the best, play this game and you wont be saying that any 
 longer. If your like me, when you first see a person playing Assassin's Creed then you will say 
 that it is pretty darn boring. But ones you start playing this game you will be saying that it 
 is so addicting. The level difficulty is balanced out very well. When you first start playing it 
 you would say it is easy, but the farther you get into the game the harder it get's. The story 
 is very in trusting and keeps you in trusted through the whole game. You would never think that 
 killing people could be this fun but it is. The game also sounds great, like when you jump from 
 the top of a building into a hay stake you can actually here the wind. 
  
  Now onto the bad stuff
  
  Its to easy to just kill some on from behind, and is easy to escape 
 from people. The last battle you get into which is supposed to be the hardest battle is kind of 
 easy.
  
  All out this is a must play for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettchalupa
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Title: Assassin's Creed
  Publisher: Ubisoft
  
  First I will start off with gameplay. The difficulty of Assassin's Creed felt just right, it started 
 off easy and got more difficult after every assassination. There is no choice in difficulty, but 
 with Assassin's Creed the game is as difficult as you make it. There is only one game mode and 
 that is the story. With a game like this, I am sure they could have included some other modes, 
 even a time trial mode. While playing the game players can choose to go about the assassinations 
 in a few different ways. One way is of the "true assassin" where the player can quietly talk out 
 all of the guards and kill the target with a low profile stab with the dagger. Another playing 
 option is to hack and slash every single guard with your sword then go up to the assassination 
 target and slash him down. Either way will get you through game. The first couple assassinations 
 were extremely fun and felt like something completely new to me. However, after the fourth and 
 so on assassinations the game feels boring and repetitive. You spend your time gathering information 
 about your target, either pick pocketing, eavesdropping, or intimidating citizens. I found none 
 of these fun, actually all pretty boring, even more so after 9 times. The game is spent in different 
 districts of the same cities, while looking different all of them feel the same and don't distinguish 
 themselves from one another. The idea of high points to get an over all feel of the city and performing 
 leaps of faith is very interesting and somewhat fun at the beginning but wear off after 20 or so 
 high points. 
  The length of Assassin's Creed is what the player makes of it. One player may rapidly go through 
 the nine assassinations gathering only the bare minimum of information. On the other hand another 
 gamer may feel obligated to collect every flag in every city, view every high point, save every 
 citizen, and collect every piece of information before killing their target. The way the player 
 plays the game will determine the length of the game. The first gamer could beat the game in an 
 easy 6 hours, and enjoy the game for what it was. The second gamer could spend well over 12 hours 
 playing the game, but I don't think would enjoy it as much because of the repetitiveness of the 
 game. Assassin's Creed has next to no replayability. After the first four or five assassinations 
 the game felt like a chore to play and finish. I can honestly say I have no motivation to go back 
 and replay it ever again. If a certain player enjoyed it so much, they might go and replay it again, 
 but I highly doubt that. The direction the game was going, if any more assassinations were added 
 I feel like they would have taken away from the game unless something new was added to them.
  The controls in Assassin's Creed were mediocre, at times I felt Altair controlled terrible, where 
 I would miss jumps and fall to my death. Holding the right trigger button puts Altair into high 
 profile mode where every action is faster, where Altair will sprint, climb walls, and jump. Most 
 citizens in the city get upset when the player runs around in high profile mode and alerts the 
 guards in the game. A player holds a button to blend, where Altair puts together his hands like 
 he is praying while walking. Almost completely useless, I felt like I was walking to slow so I 
 never found myself blending. Combat in Assassin's Creed is mediocre at best. Once counter attack 
 is learned combat is strictly guarding and pressing x button whenever a guard swings his sword. 
 This got stale very quickly and I tried to avoid combat as much as possible. There are four different 
 weapons choices decided with the d-pad, left being a smaller blade/throwing knives, up being the 
 dagger used for assassinations, right being the sword, and down being bare fists. I never used 
 bare fists except the intimidating information gathering where you punch a citizen to get him to 
 "spill the beans." 
  The story in Assassin's Creed is average, nothing to ground breaking or intriguing. The game follows 
 the assassin Altair, who has some personality problems. I really enjoyed the setting of the game 
 and the atmosphere of it. It felt very real and this leads to the graphics. I felt the graphics 
 were very good, I saw little to no problems with them. All the animations were fluid and eye pleasing. 
 Game sound was decent, I didn't hear any great soundtrack but the sounds fit the game.
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is what it is. I would say if you found this game at the low prices 
 it is at now, pick it up. It can be very enjoyable. If you have not already played this game, I 
 would strongly recommend renting it. If I sequel is being made, I feel like if it fixed all the 
 flaws in Assassin's Creed, Assassin's Creed 2 could be a great game. 
  
  **Achievement Segment
  While not all gamers play for achievements, some do. Assassin's Creed's 
 achievements aren't to difficult to get. Over half of the game's achievements are playing through 
 the game in its entirety. With the other half being tedious collection missions. I couldn't stand 
 collecting flags and helping every citizen. The game has an average achievement list, with no extremely 
 difficult ones. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FJHrunner
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game full of killing and mayhem! You gotta get this game! It's so fun to 
 kill people (in video games) . Assassin's Creed is a fun game with lots fun things in it like the 
 hidden knife, throwing knives, small knives and of course, the occasional sword. I thought it was 
 cool how they created a game that everyone that I know enjoys! I think it should deserve 5 stars, 
 but something happened, the game can get boring! Now, if you want a 5 star game then, you will 
 need to have a non-boring storyline! That's what I say! You will need a really good story line 
 and a really realistic reaction to it! The character nails the performance, great graphics! All 
 together the game isn't bad, but it's not a 5 star! Overall, I really enjoy this game! Though the 
 rated "M" really stands out in this game because of the language and violence! From overall rating, 
 I'd rate Assassin's Creed... ****... 4 stars!! Thanks for reading my review and tune in next time 
 for a review on, "Tony Hawk's Proving Ground" for the PS2!! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Wolf88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an interesting game from Ubisoft that puts you in the role of a medievil assassin 
 during the third crusades. The game implements a climbing and free-running system that allows you 
 to navigate the differant citites of the holy land as you chase after your targets with a somewhat 
 poorly communicated storyline story.
  
  The story itself is rather good, but its telling is not. You are a bartender named Desmond Miles, 
 a retired assassin now working as a bartender, whom gets kidnapped by Abstergo Industries. Abstergo 
 is the remaints of the Knights Templar and they force you to undergo sessions on a machine called 
 the animus, in which you can relive your ancestors memories, because they need to find the locations 
 of vague artifacts. Once plugged in you play the role of Altair, you ancestor. You then proceed 
 to uncover a plot to rule the holy land and make an attempt to stop it. 
  
  A treasure known as "A Piece of Eden" falls into the hands of the Templars, who are plotting to 
 rule the holy land. Your master sends you to recover it and you mess up royally but still accomplish 
 your goals. You're demoted and then must kill nine targets to redeem your rank. These nine targets 
 are all men which belong to the Templar Order and are trying to establish a new order in the holy 
 land, and also know of the treasure's secret. Once you kill them you enter a otherwordly plane 
 in which you converse with them before they finally die, slowly revealing a plot twist. This places 
 you against a tenth templar, who will remain nameless here, who benefitted from the deaths of the 
 others as to gain singular use of the treasure and gain power over the holy land. None of this 
 however really comes together until the end of the game and your left wondering what it is your 
 doing any of this for until the end. Then you get landed with a cliff-hanger that leaves more questions 
 than answers.
  
  The gameplay however is rather great, but has its flaws too. The game allows you to roam around 
 cities using parkour. Practically any structure can be climbed and they are designed to look natural. 
 The cities feel alive as you move through them and the AI is average to be generous. The guards 
 of the city have a tendency to be always alert of your presence and attack you for being an assassin 
 even though you're just walking through the markets minding your own business. This kinda gets 
 old fast as you either run to a hiding place or just continously slaughter them all. The hiding 
 places are kind of obvious too and you wonder why they work. You can blend with monks, but you 
 are basically covered in blades or sit on a bench casually. There is also a box room on the rooftops 
 with curtains blocking your view of the inside or you can jump in a pile of hay. This is the kind 
 of stuff that may work in cartoons, but it doesn't transfer over very well when applied in life. 
 I
  
  Graphics are beautiful. Highly textured buildings fill the cities and lighting creates wonderful 
 atmospheres. Though it does seem like most cities are replicas of one another with slight architectural 
 changes and a new coat of paint. Character models are detailed as well and done so with variety, 
 more-so the main ones than the civilians however. 
  
  While the story wasn't presented well and the gameplay had it's holes I found AC to be a rather 
 enjoyable game. It's not for everyone however and it really does comes down to a game you either 
 love or hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Everything Gamespot said in their reviews were true, but they didn't seem to put in more than a 
 few hours of game play. After about 5 hours, the game gets repetitive. They left out the fact that 
 you'll repeat the same thing in this game over and over. Climbing towers, saving citizens, traveling, 
 its basically repetitive from beginning to end, except for the assassinations themselves. It does 
 have some exciting moments though, which give reason for some of its decent rating. Its exciting 
 every time you are running for your life from a pile of guards, or to be listening in on what your 
 next target is saying in his unknowingly final moments. Stabbing someone with a hidden blade and 
 walking off quietly never gets old either. It also has a 10/10 Combat System, and a 10/10 Storyline, 
 so you'll be interested in hearing every single thing the game has to tell or show you from start 
 to finish and want more then it delivers (It cut off for a sequel) . It's also fun to do the investigations, 
 learning about your target makes the assassinations feel more epic than they ever turn out to really 
 be, which isn't a bad thing. Unfortunately, you'll endure countless hours of repetitiveness to 
 earn it, climbing tower after tower in new cities to scout that all feel identical to one another, 
 and so on. The game does give you a unrealistic but time saving method of getting down from each 
 one, which is helpful, but not enough.
  
  The game also has countless hitches and flaws that don't help. For instance, you'll hear the same 
 guys speech about war in every city, as if they are all the same and have the same guy, and his 
 voice for that matter. All the citizens are the same, in every city. They sound the same, they 
 act the same, they dress the same, it doesn't help. You'll constantly see the same guys face dozens 
 of times throughout the game. All the cities then look the same, if you went AFK and came back, 
 you'd forget which one you were in, and looking around wouldn't help, you'd have to look at your 
 mission screen or map. There's even more flaws, such as with the achievements. For example, I missed 
 one running through the game, "Complete every dialogue with Lucy". But now that I'm finished, I 
 can't talk to her anymore, even after replaying a former mission. How do I get this achievement 
 without replaying the ENTIRE game? I CAN'T! Another flaw is when you exit a city by mistake, which 
 I did once running from guards. You turn around to go back in, only to be ported to the OTHER side 
 of the city, no where near where you came out. Its also the same if you don't accept a teleport 
 when prompted after a mission, there's no way to get that later, so you'd have then to walk it 
 out of the city. Basically, If you mess up with traveling in this game, you will be unfairly punished 
 with time sinks to correct it.
  
  I don't mean to say only bad things about the game, but Game Spot already said everything good 
 about it, and left out everything else. They either licked the heel of this company during the 
 review, or didn't play it for more than a few hours before worshiping it. There are plenty of reasons 
 to play Assassin's Creed, but be aware of the time sink and repetitiveness that will be required 
 to fully enjoy and complete it. Have the spare time on your hands ready. I don't consider this 
 to be contradicting Game spot, just filling in some blanks, I'd recommend listening to both before 
 deciding on the game.
  
  Single player: 
  (Experience) B (Acceptable)
  Presentation: 
  (Video/Audio) Star (Perfect)
  Performance: Star (Perfect) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Sure it was fun and cool for about the first hour or two of gameplay but then the game just gets 
 old way to reppetitive Its just the same stuff in a diffrent city I know it has amazing graphics 
 and physics but thats it the storyline is just messed up and the AI is lame and your constantly 
 doing the same thing over and over again I mean there are only so manys buildings you can hop on 
 befor it gets boring but I will admit the graphics are great and the amount of detail put into 
 the diffrent cities is mind blowing but to me overall the game just dosent seem that great the 
 boss assassinations are about the only enjoyable parts the rest is just you running around and 
 no matter what you do it seems like the guards will chase like if you start runnung they will come 
 after you and that gets annoying quickley this game could have been great if they would have put 
 a little more thinking into there levels and missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheels_Of_Fate
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed... When I first got the game, previously full of excitement of what wonders I would 
 discover playing it, I was very pleasantly surprised at the sheer beauty of what I was seeing graphically 
 in the somewhat annoying tutorial, which led on to utter astonishment when I stepped out into the 
 quite inspired maysaf, which is used as the main training ground for altair to reacquainte himself 
 with some slick moves. 
  
  To the point, Assassins creed is a stunning game, even in standard definition it is mindblowing, 
 and kudos to ubisoft for doing such a good job on the detail side of things; Altair looks especially 
 good, and that goes for his other hooded counterparts. Having said that, some of the animations 
 on the citizens and guards alike are a tad shoddy, but considering the amount of them, that would 
 be expected.
  
  The plot of Assassins creed is your basic religious conspiracy story, add in a few templars and 
 a time-esque machine you re-enact memories on, you've got yourselves a boring plot, which is sad 
 given ubisofts pedigree with plots, i. e (Inevitably being brought up) prince of persia and splinter 
 cell which I think personally have gripping and fantastical tales to tell; Not going to give away 
 any spoilers so I'll say this, the story needs alot to be desired, and for me was the foremost 
 biggest problem in the game, given the obvious plot twists that we all knew were coming.
  
  The sound in the game overall is pretty brilliant, give or take from a few mediocre lines from 
 certain citizens (You know who I mean...) .; The allies and 'Targets' you meet along the way are 
 also brilliantly portrayed, and give you a real sense of which century you are in, (The merchant 
 king my personal favourite) . The score is also quite beautiful, even in its absence it was still 
 memorably hummable.
  
  Gameplay wise, is where Assassins Creed, heart wrenchingly, falls on it's ass. There are main gameplay 
 elements, and all of them fall short of abysmal, apart from a fresh eavesdropping mechanic which 
 I really enjoyed overall the first 3 times; You know what I'm going to say... Yes the most dreaded 
 word in gaming history, repetitive!, this is the most repetitive game
  I have ever played, and yes i've played space invaders many a time. It just isn't fleshed out well 
 atall, VIEWPOINT, PICKPOCKET, EAVESDROP, BEAT-UP, SAVE CITIZEN, EXECUTION, VIEWPOINT, Rinse and 
 repeat, and honestly thats it, chuck in a flag collecting element and you have disappointment of 
 the year.
  
  After you have breezed through this unforgivably easy, short, boring, beautiful yes, but repetitive 
 game, there are some things left to do; Flag hunting anybody? Hurray!!! 
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 5.9
  Replayability: 2
  Story:6.9
  Length: 7.8
  Overall: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buldog300
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Imagine yourself an elite assassin during the crusades. Better yet, imagine yourself the decedent 
 of an elite assassin during the crusades whose forced to relive his ancestor's memories. Now throw 
 in some repetitive combat and missions, beautiful and vast graphics, and a mildly insipid plot 
 and you have Assassin's Creed in a nutshell.
  
  Your a bartender who is kidnapped by a corporation, who's trying to find information buried deep 
 into your cellular structure. Utilizing an advance machine, you must live these memories to find 
 what they seek. The plot is good... at first, but, without revealing too much, it eventually spirals 
 into a ludicrous story. The moral being that major religions are flawed, god doesn't exist and 
 your creed is working to change that. Apparently the developers felt that that was indeed the moral, 
 because they note at the start of the game the diversity of designers, saying they have workers 
 of all faiths. Strange that at no time they mention that the plot is to entertain, and not to preach. 
 If you're not a believer or one who doesn't really care, you can overlook this one blight on a 
 good plot, but if not it's going to be a grain of salt to swallow.
  
  The game play is fun for a while. You climb buildings, kill people and do other acts of subterfuge. 
 The problem is that the objectives are highly repetitive. Each time you have to kill a man, you 
 must walk into a city, find a tall building and climb it, and then complete a bunch of similar 
 objectives, like killing guards to help informers, or the ever amazing task of sitting on a bench 
 and listening to people talk. You also have secondary objectives, like saving citizens and climbing 
 more towers, but after you scale the tenth tower to view that 'oh wow, it's so pretty' view, you 
 don't even care anymore. If you don't do the overly repetitive objectives, then you won't complete 
 the whole thing, but given the fact the goal is to progress, it's not that big of a deal. Climbing 
 things takes no real effort, unless you accidentally jump backwards while climbing and have to 
 start over.
  
  Battle is where both action and repetition really shine. Your supposed to be an assassin, but in 
 no way do you have to act like you're a sneaky killer. If you want, you can, despite being stabbed 
 and hacked numerous times, 'tank it' to use an mmo term. Attacking means pressing the x button 
 quickly until the guard (s) your fighting die. Since this takes forever, your best bet is to counter 
 repeatedly, which normally either stuns or kills the enemy. Countering has some gory and interesting 
 ways of killing people, but seeing the protagonist repeat them 50 times gets boring after a while. 
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful, from the first tower you climb to the detail of you character. Everything 
 is detailed and animations run smoothly. Blood spurts when you cut down a guard and even the hay 
 you hide in animates well. The only real problem is that some climbing points are overly shadowed 
 to stand out it seems. A ledge on top of a door is too obviously emphasized. The sound effects 
 are equally appropriate, from swords clashing to the high-pitched whine of you hidden blade impaling 
 a man. 
  
  Value wise there isn't much to offer. Your likely to spend more than 12 hours if you do the bare 
 minimum, and 15 hours if you complete every objective (if you don't include things like flag gathering 
 and hunting down Templars) . Given the age, you can find this game for around $20 bucks at any retail 
 store, which it's worth, give or take $5. 
  
  Assassin's creed is short, repetitive and a bit sacrilegious, but if you can overlook these minor 
 flaws and are looking for something to fill your weekend then it is definitely worth looking into. 
 The animations and plot are interesting, if somewhat stale, and the graphics are gorgeous. Repetition 
 aside, there are fewer adventure games that compete.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnsrshwn187
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a fantastic game!
  
  
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Although the ending is very confusing, the rest of the story plays out great. Within the first 
 5 minutes of playing Assassins Creed, you witness a huge plot twist: Your not really in 1911 AD 
 but in the future! You are kidnapped and use a machine called the Annamas (i can't remember if 
 that is what it is called) to access your ancestor's memory and replay his events from 1911 AD.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The detail on everything from your clothes, environment, weapons, etc, etc, etc, is amazing! 
 
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Sound effects are great and sound realistic.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  Climbing up walls and building is so easy when you learn how to do it. combat system is fun and 
 easy. Missions are really repetitive.
  
  Replayability: 9/10
  
  Although there is no multiplayer, I can't seem to stop playing this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Awesome Graphics
  +Great City-Architecture
  +Good feel of freedom
  +Longer then I expected ;-)
  +Unique design...
  
  The Bad:
  -... that is pretty annoying 
 at times
  -Could be more challenging
  -Missions get old pretty quick
  -Too much Flag-Hunting
  -I died several times on bugs XD
  
  First off, I was pretty curious 
 about this game. Almost all of my friends bought it and many didnt finish it because the missions 
 get repitive too fast without even mentioning the great rest of the game.
  
  The Graphics:
  Stunning hits pretty much the spot. The Style and architecture of the Game is well 
 executed and you can climb almost everything. Big respect to the devs who spent many many many hours 
 designing it that way. Only the Matrix-like scenes you get to see doesnt really fit in everything... not 
 really. Even if its unique that way, I dont think anyone will be happy with it because it damages 
 more the Atmosphere then supports it.
  
  The Sound:
  Nice Soundtrack, standard DD5.1-Mix, good Voice-acting... yeah, really nothing to complain here.
 
  
  The Gameplay:
  This is the core-point of every game and and a split one it is : On one side you got a unique feel 
 of freedom, on the other you get pretty boring and much too easy missions. The Fighting-System is 
 great for what it is, but makes winnig with the same counter move look cool but not challenging.
 
  A low difficulty doesnt have only bad sides : It almost feels like a vacation. Thats the best 
 Part of the game. You got a lot freedom.
  
  So...:
  Assasins Creed is a great game from the artistically point of view. It feels unique. As a game itself 
 it fails in some points and gets repitive too fast. Its not as bad as it sounds and overall I had 
 much fun with it, but Im happy I just rented it and didnt pay 60-70 Bucks for it.
  It should cost around 30 Bucks right now, so if you like unusual games and got interest in the theme, its 
 definetly worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyeatsknives
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  As many already know, Assassin's Creed is the highly anticipated game by Ubisoft Montreal. It is 
 set in the much unknown era the Crusades in the 1171 AD. The game spreads through three cities, 
 Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre. While being set in 1171 AD, the game is actually in modern day times. 
 You play as Desmond Miles, bartender extraordinaire, and a descendant to Altair. Altair is cocky 
 assassin who is stripped of his rank after a mission gone bad. After being kidnapped by scientists, 
 Desmond is forced to look deep in his head to retrieve the memories of his ancestors. The game 
 is centered around flashback memories of Desmond. After being stripped of his ranking as a master 
 assassin, his leader, Al Mualim, gives him a chance at redemption. All Altair has to do is to track 
 down and assassinate the nine men who are behind the Third Crusade.
  Hands down, the best part of the game is the graphics. From the locales, to the buildings, to Altair 
 himself, everything looks amazing. Also worth mentioning, is the scale of the city. When you stand 
 at the top of the building and look around, everything you see can be accessed, nothing is off 
 limits; all without load screens. But at the core of the game is the parkour. Whether you're running 
 from guards or just running around town, every building and object can be climbed. The controls 
 are simple enough to figure out, but have enough depth that it takes some time to master. It's 
 been a big complaint among some people, but I found them to be some of the best controls in gaming. 
 A small problem is that the controls for Desmond suck hard. It's a shame because the controls on 
 Altair are pitch-perfect. At the core of the game, Assassin's Creed is stealth-action. You have 
 to option of either running through the cites, killing everyone; guards or civilians; or lying 
 low, fighting only when needed. The game is made to do either. And adjust to either style. Really 
 the only problem is one of the high points of the game: the sense of scale of the Holy Land. It's 
 very easy to get lost in. Locales will tell you where to go, but the fact that there's no GPS doesn't 
 help. When doing investigations, it's slows the game down from the aimless wondering around. Repetition 
 does set in around the fourth or fifth mission, but the urge to do another assassination kept me 
 fight through. The final fight is excellent for those who put in the effort to get to it. Despite 
 a cliff-hanging, unfair ending, Assassin's Creed is a gaming experience that should be had by all.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWhite07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed, you mainly take the role of Altair, a veteren assassin who is demoted due 
 to his lack of authority. As you take down targets, you begin to discover a conspiracy in his world 
 and Desmond Miles, whose ancestor is Altair and a former assassin himself.
  Once you get off your training wheels, you can do basically whatever you want. But your main quest 
 is to get promoted. That means more abilites and weapons, including throwing blades. But also, 
 you begin to discover a conspiracy as noted above ^.
  The game features a total of 4 cities to explore, Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus, and Masyaf, although 
 Masyaf is your headquarters. Now, as in all games, there are a form of police, but the game makes 
 it too easy to defeat them or to get away.
  The game's visuals take the cake as you climb buildings and ride to the cities on your horse. The 
 one other thing wrong with the game is that the ending is too frickin confusing.
  All in all, the game sports a wild ride from beginning to end, and now, you can finally live out 
 your dream of being an assassin.
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da-Ruler
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  I think that this game was brilliant in some way's. I was playing this game for age's.
  
  There are several good things about this game. Great graphic's and the charactors look real. The 
 map is brilliant to explore, there are several off task task's to complete these can vary from 
 saving civilians from gaurd's, collect flags etc. Great switch between stealth attack and brutal 
 attacks. Being able to climb walls and to climb up high towers to view the place you are in is 
 amazing. 
  
  However there are several bad things about this game. You can die easily from just a couple of 
 hits. The gaurds are always suspicous about you being an assassin. There are some task's that can 
 not be done if your not in the correct place.
  
  Overall this is one of the first games to take advantage of the XBOX 360, with its wounderful graphic's. 
 So overall I give this a 9/10 and recommend it to anyone who likes RPG games and just like's killing 
 people stealthily or just going all out and kicking ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atheer87
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Apart from outstanding visuals, jumps and realistic game play this game lacks a lot of things very 
 badly. combat is just repetitive and weak. About all you do in this game is walk around jump on 
 these beautiful structures, talk to people and mash a button to kill bad guys. It was really painful 
 when i realized how "not fun" this game is going to be. It sort of felt like an RPG without combat: 
 what is the point of playing it. I am glad i only rented it before because with that low price 
 i was going to buy it. It just was a real shame. you cant get the full package i guess which is 
 excellent graphics, enjoyable and satisfying combat, interesting story and a good price. I think 
 game makers for this game should have should focus a lot more on game play and making it enjoyable 
 rather than just trying so hard to make a nice looking game and compromising nearly everything 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpfb4life
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a simply amazing game. It is the first game truly to take advantage of the so 
 called "next-generation" systems capabilities. The graphics in the game are the best that i have 
 ever seen and the character devolpment is equallly as stunning. The main character can do things 
 that i have not seen before in any game such as jump from a 5 story building and land safely in 
 a hay stack. The storyline in Assassins creed is very good as well. The game does good in tying 
 the story together but does not justify the ending. That is forgivable however because their is 
 supposed to be another game coming out. The combat system in Assassins Creed is my favorite of 
 any game that i have played. You have two options when assassinting someone, you perform either 
 a quite, stealth kill, or you can go right out and perform a devistating high profile kill (my 
 personal favorite) . You can use four different types of weapons; a short blade, a long blade, a 
 hand-held knife, and throwing knives. Overall Assassins Creed is a great game that i recomend buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a superb game, I am actually playing it one year after it was released. I had seen the 
 previews and all that but was skeptical as I thought it be like hitman. I was wrong, AC is way 
 way better in all aspects. Interesting story plot, outstanding graphics, controls aren't that complex 
 and the music is good.
  
  Negatives are that the camera does get weird on rare occassions. Once I got stuck in a wooden structure 
 and couldn't climb back out because the camera couldn't rotate properly.
  
  The music is good but limited, they could've given a little more variety. E. g. when Altair climbs 
 up to a view point, its the same little piece of music in each city - would've been nice if it 
 differed a bit - at least per city or atleast as the story proceeds.
  
  Overall it's an excellent game but one disappointing thing was the ending. It was nothing! I know 
 they have made it very obvious that a sequel is coming out but surely they could've given a little 
 more of an ending!
  
  This game needs to be played on a massive hi def tv to get the full impact of the beautiful graphics. 
 Seriously, I thought Ace Combat 6 was detailed - but AC was picture perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf9303
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is a true masterpiece. The graffics are simply stunning and (considering the number of 
 them) the AI are programed with expertise. The story is an extemely gripping tale that revolves 
 around a bartender captured by an organization who plan to find the location of something through 
 the memories of his anscestor, "Altiar", who you will play as. While the story progresses you will 
 gain new abillities and weapons that are well animated and "fun" to use and watch. The controls 
 are expertly laid out and easy to understand. Exploring the cities is one of my personal favorite 
 parts of the game. climbing buildings and walking with the crowd are simply gravy on this game. 
 In short, if you're looking for a game to play and an in dept story, this is the one for you. Saftey 
 and peace my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpalberg
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  What a let down. I was really looking forward to this game, thinking it would be like a medieval 
 Metal Gear. I was really really wrong. Let's start with the few positive notes: polished environments... that's 
 pretty much where it ended for me. I'd also say the combat can be fun for 10 minutes or so. Onto 
 the negatives, this game is THE most repetitive game I have ever sat through. There are basically 
 4 objectives per town that are EXACTLY the same. Once you complete these objectives you are to 
 assassinate a target. Some of the actual assassination attempts can be fun while others are just 
 frustrating. This game really is all flash with NO substance. Please, for your sake, don't buy 
 it. Rent it, because the first 10 minutes will give you the full Assassin's Creed effect. Check 
 IGN for a more justifiable review of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the MOST repetitive game out there. Basically, you go to a kingdom, find out 
 information, climb viewpoints, kill some guards, and then kill your target. This goes on for about 
 10 missions. The 10 missions are very long and you can go back anytime to get flags, save citizens, or 
 climb all of the viewpoints. This game will bore you, but it is still intense with an interesting 
 storyline, easy controls, and great gameplay. Now let's not forget the graphics. The graphics are 
 one of the most amazing things in the world which should be the 8th wonder. You will have a lot 
 of fun playing this game doing plenty of different combos on guards and assassinating your targets 
 in different ways. The game becomes harder and harder as you progress but you earn more weapons 
 and health throughout. The storyline is extremely confusing when you are in the present playing 
 as Desmond Miles, the real character in the game. I don't want to spoil anything, so I'll let you 
 check this game out. In the game you play as the assassin Altair. He is part of the Creed and is 
 sent out to kill the 9 terrible men out there. This is just a devious plan to distract you from 
 your leader who is the real villian in the game. The end is probably the most intense and most 
 fun level in the game because it continues with new things for a while. It will frustrate you because 
 at times you can not find informers or viewpoints which will waste your time and you will end up 
 running around the kingdom over and over again, you might want to use a guide. You will find yourself 
 playing this game a lot so be sure to be carrying a lot of batteries on you! Anyone looking for 
 a game to check out and play for fun, this is it. Though I warn you, you will be confused! Even though 
 its flaws ( the story and repetivness ) annoy you, Assassin's Creed is one of the games every gamer 
 should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da32ozKilla
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Ok this game had a great idea. but the challenges got way to repetitive and boring. spend a lot 
 of time just running around to get to the other end and the attacks are the same. Number 2 should 
 be a lot better but def worth a play Rent it since its only single player. You can beat it easily 
 in a week. Fly by the towns (total of around 7 to 9 hrs) complete every task and mission about 
 12. Good game and theme. Story line good but the ending leaves you with ore questions than answers. 
 And if you want every achievement make sure you read over them first. You will get annoyed at some 
 parts and tasks like the stealth assassinations very and you die when u hit water. Its fun overall 
 ok game that has the potential to be a next great piece of work. And why does a review have to 
 be a min of 800, my god. I just want to give my little opinion. try it, beat it, then never see 
 it again. Hell dont even think about it till the second one comes out. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguino522
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Assasins creed is one of the best games ive ever played. The graphics are amazing the sound amazing 
 to the story is like Extremely amazing! If they make Assasins creed 2 i wont even have to read the 
 review ill just know that its ganna be  
 love killing the templars and the guys outside of demascus or jerusalem the guys in the little 
  
 i cant right anymore. The only thing that bothers me is when ure being chased i always make the 
 wrong turn and either run into a templar or 1000 more guys! If i start doing random words its cause 
 i cant right anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pondi123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  There is nothing wrong with Assassins creed. Sure some bits are a bit hard, but you get that in 
 all games. I loved this game. I haven't played it for awhile but it is a great game. The graphics 
 were stunning and the story was good. The modern twist to the game made it a really good experience. 
 Assassinating rooftop guards is for some strange reason really addictive. And you do (obviously) 
 end up assassinating targets. The way with which you had to go about gathering infomation to help 
 you assassanate the target was really thought out by Ubisoft montreal. You can listen in or interogate 
 or even pickpocket people to gather your infomation. It all adds up for a great stunning interesting 
 experience. It is probably in my top ten all time gaming list. It isn't really press x to win. 
 All the people who say that are wrong. For anyone who is a gamer and had a high end pc or an xbox 
 360 or a ps3, you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micia212
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a revolutionary game. Its graphics are superb, top quality and the controls 
 are slightly challenging but add to the suspense of the game. 
  First the graphics, as I said fantastic and rendered to full potential and the game is not glitchy 
 in battle. 
  Then there are the controls, again I said challenging as when in pursuit you can forget a button 
 and stumble off a roof. It all adds up to the magic of the game.
  Next the storyline. Its gripping and fulfilling but the side quests are basically the same so can 
 get a bit repetitive however new areas of the city compensate. Its historic reference is fantastic 
 with relations to all the holy cities and king Richard. The characters are like people displaying 
 a manner of emotions. However I am still not convinced by the memory stuff in the game. Sort of 
 made the game sci-fi instead of being a historic game.
  The combat has been done with the upmost care so that battles are seamless and never disappoint. 
 The hidden blade is a great weapon and is like a trade mark of the game.
  The length of time needed to complete the storyline took myself around 20 hours over 3 days. But 
 I still play it and collect the flags and kill some templar's. 
  I tell you if you buy this you will come back to it in later days and will be playing it again 
 for the humour and the shear thrill of the chaseI still can't keep a battle going for 10 minutesI 
 kill them all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maidendude71
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, so lets see. This game is overrated, a bit cliched, bad gameplay and average storyline but on 
 the plus side it has great graphics, its underpriced, fairly original and is good for achievements. Which 
 makes assassins creed a love hate kinda game. If you like old fashoined stabbing and swordfighting 
 then this may appeal to you, but if like me, you like guns, blood and gore then this game may be 
 a bit dull and boring. I'd say this is like Prince of Persia without the good bits and its a game 
 where you don't make things happen, you have to waait for things to happen. If you are looking 
 to buy this game then in GameStation they are selling for 12.99, which for nowadays is a bargain. 
 To sum up assassins creed.. Overrated, boring and an average storyline puts this game as 7/10 at 
 a big push. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  First off this game could have been a masterpiece.... If they would have made it better.... I would 
 have liked more interaction with the townspeople, a decent story, and a multiplayer.... The game 
 stars you as altir (an assassin) the game is good in execution, but poor in results... You basically 
 go from city to city (on a horse) and you cannot teleport making it take longer to get to the new 
 cities and complete the tasks... When you get to the city you sneak in with the priests, using 
 camoflage and then climb to the top of a building and see the city... then you have to evesdrop 
 and spy on the enemy... then you kill some henchmen and get more info and then you find and kill 
 the boss... The boss sequences are interesting if not repetive... What really kills the game is 
 that you feel unstoppable, the guards can be killed easily once you get the combat down and hiding 
 and running away on rooftops is easy as well.... The games story is half based on the assassin 
 and half based on some sci-fi back to the future type crap that does not go with the game AT ALL... 
 I wish the game had a multiplayer or co-op for that matter, but after you beat it there is really 
 nothing left to see... The cities look beutiful and so do the enviornments and everything, but 
 the repetive nature of this game kills it and a lack of a multiplayer component kills the replay 
 value.... It's an ok game... I borrowed it from my friend and im glad I did not buy it.... rent 
 it if you must not for the story or gameplay.... but for the visuals... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_redstar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun but kinda fiddly and often the best bits feel a little too spaced out with travelling. 
 Still though, the hype is not far off the mark with this one.
  This is the first game I've really been motivated to get all the achievements for and that's gotta 
 say something... actually nailing an assassination is very satisfying. The storyline is pretty 
 compelling too and although I've heard some criticism about it, it's hooked me in and I enjoyed 
 following it till the end.
  The combat is sometimes frustrating put fighting loads of guards all at once is great and it's 
 easy to get sucked into the character.
  I'd definitely recommend this game to anyone who likes third person hack and slash type games and 
 also anyone who likes stealthy games.
  I've also enjoyed the historical context of the game too and whilst it might all be highly fanciful, 
 it has spurred me on to actually looking up something of the things in the game and it's been fun 
 to learn about some of things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlashDementia3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game after passing it, I didn't even want to look at it. Don't get me wrong, it's a really 
 great game.. But the replay value is very low on this. I've only done 3 reviews, I doubt anyone 
 read them. But I'll keep this one shorted just like the play time the game left me.
  
  Story: Altair.. Never mind, Desmond Miles, a bartender and ex-assassin. Is taken in for an investigation 
 leading to an ancient artifact for some crazy scientist, that probably watches him sleep.. I know, 
 it's creepy. Desmond is to go in "The Animus" the retrieve his ancestor's memories of where this 
 artifact is. Basically you are Desmond Miles playing his ancestor, Altair's life. Where he is sent 
 to kill 9 targets that the Assassin's Creed has given him. This is set in the Holy Land.
  
  Game-play: Ubisoft did great work here, seeing as this is Prince of Persia style. Running up walls, 
 jumping roof to roof, climbing houses, and assassinating is done flawlessly. The only thing that 
 they didn't do right is add different quest. You have about four types of them to get to the assassination 
 point. There is "save the monk/girl", "kill 2-6 guards undetected", "gather flags", and "climb 
 a tall building", only then can you do the assassination, I don't believe you have to do them all 
 but... It just got boring so I did them all anyways. And so will you! No! So will you!
  
  Graphics: Flawless victory. =) Oh, oops. Got carried away. Seriously the graphics are great. Can't 
 go wrong here. They're amazing.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is done good, but Altair's voice doesn't seem to fit him. They could have done 
 better. But besides that it's all good.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 9/10
  Scenery: 10/10
  Story: 8/10
  Controls: 8/10
  SFX: 7/10
  Replay Value: 3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_20000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is a third person stealth / action game that is set in medieval times. You play 
 as an assassin called Altair , who at the start of the game is sent to retreive an important artifact 
 but ruins his chance by trying to kill an enemy of the assasins guild. Altair then finds himself 
 stripped of his rank and his weapons and he must assassinate targets to regain his rank and regain 
 his weapons. Throughout the game you will learn to use your abilities and weapons. After you kill 
 each target you regain one of your weapons or ablilities. assassins creed really does have some 
 of the best graphics to be seen on the 360. Whilst you are not doing the missions there are small 
 side quests dotted around each of the 4 cities, these include saving citizenzs from gaurds or collecting 
 flags for characters in exchange for infomation. Whilst you are exploring the cities you can fight 
 any gaurds, climb almost any wall or building or assassinate anyone you wish. Combat is smooth but 
 can sometimes feel slow and repetative. Climbing and free-running feels smooth and effortless and 
 is a good way to get around each city quickly. Over all assassins creed is a game that nearly Everyone 
 can enjoy playing.
  GRAPHICS 10/10 
  SOUND 9/10
  GAMEPLAY 8/10 (SOMETIMES SLOW AND REPETATIVE)
  STORY 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingedHero
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the best action adventure game there is. Running through rooftops 
 and stealthily killing somebody has got to be one of the most satisfying things to ever do. 
  
  -Story
  You start off as an Assassin named Altair who has defied the assassin's creed. As 
 punishment his rank and weapons have to be stripped off making him a novice. He then has to retain 
 his rank by doing assassinations for his master regaining weapons and his rank with the assassinations 
 he does. Altair assassinates some of his targets and gets suspicious that something else is happening 
 and the assassinations are part of a diabolical plan. So he investigates. The story has 2 dimensions, 
 one in the Animus and one outside the animus (real world) (not gonna spoil it) .
  
  -Gameplay
  Gameplay is fun, if you like action games then this game is for you. You run around 
 assassinating people and guards whenever you want. One thing that makes this game special for me 
 is the counter system. You wait for the enemy to attack and time pressing a button in which Altair 
 in deal does a wicked move to finish his enemy. You can also jump around rooftops and climb buildings 
 while enemies chase you. To continue assassinations you have to solve some investigations. (I think 
 the developers put it here so the game will have longer gameplay, which they have done but they 
 also made the gameplay repetitive.) The investigations make it repetitive and boring that you might 
 want to take the game out and play another game.
  
  -Sound
  The sound is fantastic, even the music makes me feel the action.
  
  All in all I would rate 
 this game a 9. If you want to try this game out you should just rent it, because you can finish 
 this game in 2 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJ-SLiiCks
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Only one word can properly describe Assassins Creed, repetitive. Assassins Creed has a very good 
 impression, but the repetitiveness in game play and story made it feel like the game dragged on 
 forever. Though repetitive, game play was fun at times, and story line had a great climax.
  You play as Altier, a top rank assassin who's only mistake was knowing to much and being over confident. 
 You get stripped of your rank and have to do numerous missions to build it back up. Although somewhat 
 fun, the same missions are done over and over, just in different cities and with different difficulties. 
 By the end of the game you have all your ranks back, with significantly better weapons than the 
 ones you started with and a few interesting skills. 
  Missions in the game don't really change or differ besides a small difficulty change. All missions, 
 however, revolve around the same theme; sneak around town; get to your destination; stalk your 
 victim; then pick pocket/assassinate/intimidate them. The only missions that change even the slightest 
 bit, were the "boss" fights. They were like any other fight just with a little more strategy involved.
 
  Overall, it was a decent game worth playing. I would say the climax to the story was what made 
 me end up liking the game when i had finished it. I would recommend this game to people who like 
 an occasional action game, but would refrain those who are FPS/TPS gamers from playing this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aero629
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Assassin's Creed I was intrigued. The idea of a game focusing on an open 
 ended world where I could run on rooftops and find footholds to get to where ever I wanted sounded 
 great. When I got the game and began to play it, the story was different than I thought it would 
 be. The animus, a machine that can use DNA to trace the memories of your ancestors, kept my eyes 
 glued to the screen as it was a very different concept. When I was actually able to play Altair 
 I was instantly hooked. He is such a fun character to play and embodies all that is bad ass. He 
 walks through the crowds unseen while constantly inching closer towards his oblivious targets. 
 Before they know it he is upon them and drives his hidden blade into their throats. Altair then 
 proceeds to through the streets to escape his many pursuing guards. This formula is exciting and 
 keeps the player intrigued through out the entire game. The counter-kills are enjoyable to watch 
 as well, in case you don't feel like fleeing from the scene of the crime. This game is incredible 
 with its story, combat system, and ability to scale the rooftops throughout each historical setting. 
 I absolutely recommend this game to anyone who doesn't mind a little killing. (Okay, more than 
 a little killing.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesmaster5
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  I'm sure noone expected a game like this! You might be thinking - but theres loads of assasins 
 games out there! - , you might think that, and you'd be right! There are lots of assasins games, 
 but none of them are like this, with its GTA style freedom and monkey-like stunts. 
  
  Assasins Creeds plot is strange, its concept is strange but it handles beautifly and looks amazing. 
 Possibly the best thing about this game is the main character Altair's ability to climb and jump 
 through any situation to reach his target. The nice touch is the dive into the haystack once you 
 get to the tip-top of high buildings. Also, the combat has a fresh approach that works very well. 
 The cut-scenes may as well have the same graphics as the normal in-game graphics because they are 
 both perfectly streamlined and break the barrier of realistic graphics into super-realistic. The 
 kind of realism that is actually more detailed than the real world.
  
  At the beginning, the game leaves you with a high and you say to yourself that this is one of the 
 best games you've played in a long time! First of all, this game lacks RPG elements like changing 
 your blade at your own will, changing clothes colors or gathering gold from victims to buy more 
 items. This may seem needless to the plot but you'd be surprised how much this would impact the 
 overall enjoyability. Secondly, the games biggest problem is its extreme repetitiveness. Every 
 mission you receive involves the same information-gathering interrogation followed by a target 
 appearance, a short cutscene, then the assasination. This gives the game no surprises or straying 
 from the norm that Assasins Creed desperately craves. And because of this, the games lifespan is 
 often cut short from boredom and its replayibility is non-existant. Thirdly, with these annoying 
 nicks in the Single Player you'd expect some kind of multiplayer? You'd be disappointed. This game 
 has no online or co-op play. reducing its lifespan even further! Making this game one of the most 
 returnable purchases this year. 
  
  I know there are all of these frustrating problems. But if you can ignore it and have the time 
 or patience or just enjoy its dramatic effects and enticing realism then its still a playable and 
 accesible platformer all round.
  
  Review submitted by : Gamesmaster5
  
  Thank you for reading! Please give me your opinion on the review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- (6.5) When i first played Assassins Creed and i tried out the combat system, i thought 
 it was really cool and something different from other games, but the gameplay gets old after a 
 while, and the tasks involve investigating, then assassinating you target. This is all you do throughout 
 the entire game.
  
  Graphics- (10) At least that Assassins Creed looks incredible. This is easily one of the best looking 
 games ive ever seen on any console, there are a few glitches but it really does look amazing. That 
 being said GRAPHICS DON'T MAKE GOOD GAMES!
  
  Sound- (8.5) The sound is nothing special and is pretty basic. It still sounds good though.
  
 
  Value- (6.5) Not much value in Assassins Creed, there's not much to do in the game, there's no 
 online play, or multilayer what so ever. This game can be pretty fun when you beat it once, but 
 not a 2nd time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect out of Assassin's Creed, but I happened to get it anyway. This is 
 the best game made by Ubisoft to date. This makes me wonder why more games aren't like this. This 
 is a very special game, and anyone likes action adventure games will be more than just impressed 
 with what Assassin's Creed offers.
  The main character you play as is Altair, an assassin assigned to kill nine different targets, 
 each in one of three different cities of the Holy Land: Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre. Each city 
 looks amazing, with tons of detail put into every object. Altair's animations look excellent, though 
 there are small visual glitches where his clothing can go through objects. The way the citizens 
 walk aren't as well done as Altair, but it's forgivable, considering that there are tens of thousands 
 of them. The cities both look and feel alive, and a big plus to that are the size of the cities. 
 The cities are absolutely huge, and there are lots of places to explore around. Simply wandering 
 around the city is easily the best aspect of this game. But the cities aren't the only places you'll 
 be traveling through: you can wander around the countryside where there are small villages, and 
 Masyaf, a large town where Altair is from. Everything in this game looks spectacular.
  
  
  Adding to the visuals is the audio. All the character's voices are excellent, even though Altair 
 does speak with an American accent. Every other character speaks in an accent that actually sounds 
 like their character should in the game. Not only is the voice acting great, but so is the sound. 
 From the clashing of swords to Altair's cloaks gliding through the air while sprinting down a street, 
 the sound is excellent. The story in this game is Altair is supposed to assassinate nine different 
 targets throughout the cities. Altair will have suspicions on why he has to kill these men, and 
 why they're leading their people in a certain way. The storyline is compelling, but the ending 
 is a bit disappointing. You do play as another character besides Altair, but I don't want to spoil 
 anything. I like the story, plus the audio really makes this game shine.
  
  
  
  As Altair, you will be able to explore these giant cities. You can climb up or on just about anything. 
 It's fun to climb to the top of a tower to just see the breathtaking view from above. You have 
 three different weapons: throwing daggers, a sword and your assassination blade. Combat is fun, 
 mainly because Altair's moves look awesome, but also the controls are so well done. There are many 
 guards around, and if you do something like kill a civilian out in public, they'll come after you. 
 There are places to hide, such as a pile of hay, behind curtains on top of a roof or blending in 
 with scholars. You do kind of have a trouble indicator, which blinks yellow when guards sense an 
 assassin in the city or red when they're coming after you. Combat is pretty basic: all you have 
 to do is wait for one of them to attack and do a counterattack. This may seem to get repetitive, 
 but Altair's awesome moves never really get old.
  
  
  The only really bad about Assassin's Creed is the mission design. Basically there is one assassin's 
 bureau hidden within the city. You go to it, and a comrade tells you three different locations 
 to find information on your target. There are only a few different ways of getting information. 
 One is by sitting on a bench near two men and eavesdropping on them, as they will be talking about 
 your target. Another is by pick pocketing someone for a letter on where your target will be. Another 
 is by waiting for someone to enter a dark alley and beat the information out of them. The last 
 one is finding an informant, who then challenges you to collect a number of flags or killing a 
 few people in a certain amount of time. Once you gather enough information, you find where your 
 target is and watch a short cutscene where your target is arguing with another person about politics. 
 After that, the target retreats back into a secluded place, and this is where you assassinate him. 
 You can either sneak in quietly or burst in and fight everyone. There's nothing wrong with this 
 formula except that it continues for another eight targets, and it gets repetitive. One thing that's 
 frustrating is when you're not paying attention to the locations on informants, you can't get that 
 information back, leaving you searching huge cities for a handful of people. There are also side 
 missions where citizens are being harassed by guards. The game won't actually take you that long 
 to beat, but it definitely is one of the best games of 2007.
  
  The Good: Excellent audiovisual presentation; good story; large cities to freely roam around in; 
 combat is a lot of fun; great voice acting; lots of side missions and extras to collect.
  
  The Bad: The enemy AI is sometimes bad; the missions stay the same throughout the entire game; 
 the game has a bad ending and some visual glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopop911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is probably one of the most innovative and immersive games to be released in a 
 long time. Does that mean it's good? Definitely. But is it great? Nope. 
  Assassin's Creed has a very unique storyline that is full of twists and turns till the very end. 
 The graphics are top-notch, with each texture rendered in high-resolution and excellent player 
 models. Animations are extremely fluid and gives a sense of realism. Also, the environments are 
 excellent, and there is a nice contrast to everything, making the main character pop out from the 
 background. It's graphically a very good game, and Ubisoft did an extremely good job. Especially 
 the fact that everything can be climbed and your player actually can grab onto little inlets and 
 dents that you may have thought were just there for show.
  Gameplay is also equally well done. I like the one button gameplay and free-running could never 
 be any easier. You would think that with excellent graphics and gameplay, this game would be at 
 least a 9.0. What detracts from this game is the repetitiveness of the missions. Each mission involves 
 you having to climb vantage points and then complete the same thing for "research" (eavesdropping, 
 pick-pocketing, etc.) and then finally assassinate the target. This is fun at first. However, there 
 is no variety or unique parts of the research or climbing vantage points for each mission. Instead, 
 EVERYTHING is the same! After about 4 or 5 assassinations, it gets tiring, boring, and you don't 
 even care about the storyline at all. It's all so very repetitive. 
  Assassin's Creed had a lot of potential, but if they improve on variety of missions and maybe more 
 cities, the sequel will be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyOwl411
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  All hail this mysterious stranger, Altair. He can come right up behind you and smite you with his 
 hidden blade. Welcome to the Holy Land, where agent 47... I mean Altair. Nine heathens must be 
 felled by your hands. So get to it. You must gather up intel, fight off templars, and collect some 
 dumb flags. Yeah the flags is the single most useless thing in game. The combat can get repetive, 
 but executing people with your sword of brutality never gets old. The hidden blade is one of the 
 best weapons ever created. Even compared against artillery and giga guns from other games. Although 
 repetion may bog you down, but if you think that, take a break and read a book or something. Reading 
 can help you, after all :) This has a great story that will keep you guessing, not knowing what 
 will happen next. Unfortunately, the ending could probaley kill brain cells and confuce you indefinately. 
 So enjoy this great work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camkillz
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game would have been amazing if it was not a game. If it were a animated movie, or just a 
 real movie. However as a game its lame. Thank goodness I did not buy this game brand new. 
  
  I read the reviews, bought into the hype and was waiting patiently for the game to be avail. 
 used. Seeing that it is not online I knew the price would drop fast. I finally got it and was severely 
 disappointed. Very little skill involved. It is a beautiful game but lets get real... what game 
 isnt these days. Its like meeting a super model to find out she is moron. 
  Gamespot... tis tis tis... You give this a 9... please. People trust you to review these games so 
 they have some idea that the game will be worth their hard earned money. Seems like this time you 
 took that for granted. The only reason I gave this a 6 is because of the visuals. Otherwise this 
 would have been a 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coheedtheslayer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I just got this game about 2 weeks ago because I've heard many great things about this game. Just 
 seeing the opening clip made me wanna play it! I mean you can literally jump from roof top to roof 
 top, you can assassinate whoever you want whenever you want in a badass way! When I saw the horse, 
 I said "no way, you've gotta being kidding me, that thing isn't ride-able!" I was proven wrong! 
 I love running people over with my horse while I have As I Lay Dying's "Darkest Night" playing, 
 it just sets the mood sooooo well haha.
  This game is almost perfect, the graphics are superb, only thing I would change about it is the 
 ability to have MORE weapons!! I heard there is also an Assassin's Creed 2 coming out soon, hopefully 
 it has exactly what I want in it! Not that this game was disappointing in any way. I prefer this 
 over any Hitman game anyday, Hitman can jump 50 feet across a building, now can he?!! So if you 
 love going out and climbing rooftops, killing in a secretive way and amazing graphics, this game 
 is for you!!
  9/10 stars from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Just a renter, not a buyer. Lots of fun, but short, with nothing to do once the game is done.
 
  The levels remind me of GTA... except in a medieval setting with tiny roads and corridors. If 
 you've ever played a video game before, play the game on hard difficulty. It is still an easy game.
 
  One big let-down for me is that you don't have to kill the "bosses" in true assassination form, 
 and there's no real reward for doing so. For an assassin game, it sure is easy to run-and-slice. 
 Side note: What's up with the intro-video showing the main character with a crossbow? We only get 
 throwing knives.
  
  I just don't understand how this game has a solid 9 out of 10. It must be the story line which 
 bumps that score. I agree, the story and dialogue were intriguing, but without any finality to 
 the game it just makes you want more and leaves you with a sense of dissapointment and - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiusej1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype and marketing that went into producing Assassin's Creed, people highly anticipated 
 Ubisoft's ambitious project. Almost a year after its release, I have had enough time to play and 
 think about the game's impact on me, and I say that while Assassin's Creed doesn't reach the ambitious 
 heights the producers sought, the game is nevertheless fun to play and a good indication of future 
 installments within the franchise.
  
  The gameplay centers around a stealth-inspired adventure over the shoulders of our third-person 
 protagonist, Alstair. Most of the game is spent re-attaining his stripped powers, unfortunately 
 anticipating the use of his crossbow, uncovering new areas through exploration, and assassinating 
 ten targets throughout the three cites. Alstair occasionally has the need to resort to swordplay 
 in the form of one-button combat to fend off guards that catch on to his identity of "Assassin." 
 While the combat is entirely one-dimensional, the countering options and cinematics following each 
 successful kill keep the combat from becoming boring altogether. Eventually, it's possible to fight 
 against the guards using the counter-attack of the handblade, which keeps more Tweak Gamers engaged 
 without the monotonous task of blocking and attacking.
  
  The most highly anticipated portion of the gameplay, however, comes from Alstair's seamless bound 
 from rooftop to rooftop, persued by guards or otherwise directed toward infiltrating the territory 
 of your mark. All other forms of stealth are reduced to a press of a button that makes Alstair 
 walk slowly with his head bowed, which puts off the attention of virtually every guard. Only assassins 
 run through cities in the universe of Assassin's Creed. Despite the lackluster stealth, the freedom 
 demonstrated in climbing up and over buildings Prince of Persia-style offers enjoyment in and of 
 itself, and this is a site to behold for first-time players.
  
  Assassinating each target employs most of the challenge in the game. While it's easy to run into 
 a target's territory and counter-attack each guard until you pulverize your mark, the true challenge 
 arises in your attempts to orchestrate the perfect assassination - killing your target quickly, 
 efficiently, and then fleeing the scene.
  
  My main problem with Assassin's Creed lies in its story, which I intially expected to be my highest 
 praise. Without spoilers, the story is told through the perspectives of two characters: Alistair 
 and Desmond. Desmond is another character played in the future by you only through cutscenes and 
 menial walking and talking in between the action of Alstair's gameplay. I was hoping this second 
 story would turn into a stealth-based game on its own, effected by the events that unfold at your 
 hands in the previous time of Alstair's world. Sadly, this second story serves only to set up a 
 world in the near-future for future installments of the AC franchise (presumably) . Ubisoft could 
 have cranked out an entirely unique and rich experience through this unanticipated secondary plot, 
 but instead its tacked-on nature leaves much to be desired. Not to mention, the primary plot of 
 the story gets bogged down with too many faceless characters, and long, contrived, spirtless discourses 
 in the form of cutscenes.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed does not achieve the greatness the world desired. No new ground has been 
 broken in terms of story-telling and combat. The saving grace of this game comes in its short length 
 (less than 10 hours) and the enjoyment of climbing and running across buildings. With no multiplayer 
 options whatsoever and little replayability, this game is most certainly a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  In a game, have you ever went to the highest point and looked at the entire game world? In most 
 cases, you'd see a fog of war thing (a fog that's not supposed to be there) , or something may be 
 missing. In Assassin's Creed, you can see enormous cities and landscapes, and you can see for miles...
 
  
  Gameplay: In Assassin's Creed, as the name states, you are an assassin during the Crusades, killing 
 Templars for what you belive in. You take control of Altair, (there's supossed to be two dots over 
 the I, in his name,) who disobeys his master, therefore is demoted to the lowest rank, and then 
 has to work his way back up to the level of master assassin. To do so, your master gives you nine 
 assassinations, which most are differnt, but some are very similar. Because of your assassin training, 
 you know how to fight, climb bulidings, and jump, and basicly perform acrobatics. (You can't swim 
 though.) The game is similar to Grand Theft Auto. You have a giant open world in which you can 
 free roam around. There will be gaurds who will kill you if you provoke them, (like cops in GTA) , 
 and there will be many citizens. But rather than think that you can just cut through the citizens 
 with one of your four and a half weopons, (sword, hidden blade, fists, throwing knives, and short 
 sword counts as half a weopon.) , you must follow the assassin creed.
  1: You may not kill innocents (If you do, your health goes down.)
  2: Stay hidden. (When guards 
 aren't trying to kill you, you are hidden, and your health regenerates.)
  3: Never compromise the Brotherhood
  This dosn't get hard to not follow. As I said before, you 
 have cool skills. Within fights, you can perform combos and such, and you acrobatics are cool. 
 You can skale buldings by climbing up the windows. There is no building you can't climb.
  
  Graphics: Amazing.
  
  Controls: Really solid. It's hard at first, but there's a lengthly turtorial, 
 so, you'll learn.
  
  Sound/music: There isn't too much music to be heard, but when you do here it, it sounds amazing, 
 and the sounds are also solid. The voice acting is also really just wonderful.
  
  Replay value: High 9/10
  
  Conclusion: Get this game. It can't afford to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Developer Ubisoft is known for reaching out to different genres. They've made first person shooters, 
 third person shooters, and even stealth action games like Splinter Cell. This time, however, they've 
 reached even further into the stealth genre to create quite possibly the most ambitious and involving 
 game of 2007.
  
  The stealth genre in particular has mainly been about lurking around in the shadows to avoid eyesight 
 with your targets and pursuers. In this game, it's less about sneaking around and more about blending 
 in with the crowd. You'll be going to three different cities in an open world to hunt down nine 
 primary targets. in each of the cities, civilians will be moving around constantly, and you'll 
 have to blend in with them to successfully reach your leads. It's a gameplay element that works 
 very well, and keeps you involved.
  
  In order to reach one of your primary targets, you'll have to follow certain leads to find their 
 location and eventually assassinate them. These events include eavesdropping, interrogation, and 
 pickpocketing. While they're generally pretty fun to do, they eventually wear their welcome, and 
 become more of a chore than anything. With nine targets total, you'll have had your share of pickpocketing, 
 eavesdropping and interrogation.
  
  The game's sound and music are brilliant, and fit in with every situation. Once your cover is blown, 
 the music kicks into high gear and is just the adrenaline rush that you need.
  
  Possibly the game's single fault is its sheer repetitiveness. Nine targets keeps the game going 
 for a while, but odds are you'll enjoy the game less and less as the game moves on. The story is 
 the single motivator, and probably the only reason you'll finish the game. But having a story as 
 in-depth and complex as this is a huge achievement on its own.
  
  Truthfully, if the gameplay held up better, this would be a near-perfect game. But it's the tediousness 
 of tracking down your targets that drags the game down. Overall however, this game is the most 
 unique and inventive game out there, and with such a beautiful story, it would be a mistake to 
 miss out on Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a few brushstrokes away from being a masterpiece but despite is shortcomings 
 which are small, its ends up being a game not to be missed on the Xbox 360 or the Playstation 3. 
 Ubisoft Montreal has given us some amazing games and this game is no different. It is definitely 
 a shining example of why Ubisofts Montreal studio is so damn famous. Beautiful art direction, fun 
 game-play and stunning presentation yield a game that never gets repetetive nor old. 
  
  The art direction is beautiful and flawless. Everything you see even when just standing around 
 is flawlessly crafted as textures showcase the grime and dust of each city as well as the smallest 
 defining differences in the sections of Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem. Altair is also crafted with 
 pure artistry not only in the character model itself but in the animation. Normally games with 
 player characters that have a limited amount of moves gets old but since the animation is done 
 so superbly, killing your targets never gets old. 
  
  The masterful animation, which is part of the overall art direction, then ties into the game-play. 
 The variation of seeing different finishing moves every time you perform a counter also serves 
 to eliminate any sort of repetitious feeling one might get from performing hundreds of assassinations. 
 
  
  The presentation is grade A begining with the first cut scene we see at the onset of being at the 
 main menu. The cutscene sets the stage about what the game is all about and introduces Altair with 
 sheer brilliance. So much so that I would pay to watch a full length feature film created on the 
 computer with Altair as the lead character if the studio responsible for the cutscene was involved. 
 
  
  There is simply no reason I can formulate as to why a fan of action and open sandbox games would 
 want to miss this game. Its stunning, beautiful and never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I bought Assassins Creed a couple of months agoand I have been playing it since. The game is highly 
 addictive with an interesting story line. You're playing a character called Desmond and they do 
 studys on him to try to make him remember his ancestors storys. That takes you to 1191 ad. You 
 play an assassin who goes on various missions to take out different people you can roam around 
 the various cities that you go to. It really is the grand theft auto of the medieval times. The 
 fighting is one of the best in any games with great graphics and ai. Although it does get kind 
 of boring if you play it non-stop for a couple of days. I liked the combos in the fights. They 
 were very graphic but enjoyable. I think it is definetly one of the best early xbox 360 games. 
 The bosses are kind of easy but maybe thats just the part im at. The only thing that i dont like 
 very much about the game is the storyline outside of the storyline. Im talking about when you're 
 desmond. It doesn't seem like the story is going anywhere. But overall Assassins Creed is probably 
 the best swords and arrows medieval times games ive played ever. :) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mavalasko
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  I was aboard the bandwagon during the hype for this game. Following the updates, researching graphics 
 and videos, nothing could stop me from getting this surely ground-breaking game. Upon its release, 
 I checked the Gamespot website for reviews and was met with bitter disappointment. The game stood 
 up to high quality graphics and a fun storyline however generally overdone missions and low replayability, 
 slaughtered the hopes I had for it. An inner turmoil ensued within me and I decided to pass on 
 a $99.95 AUD deficit for the game.
  
  Almost a year later and I decided to rent it, to finally understand what I had been missing. Boy, 
 what was I in for...
  
  I can't express my annoyance at the fact that you were unable to skip the cut-scenes. Especially 
 at the start! Sure it could be essential to telling the story but my god. When somebody sits down 
 to play a game, there's a certain level of tolerance that they are willing to give. For example, 
 a health bar of 100. The introduction to this game consumed a meaty 80% of my tolerance. I just 
 wanted to play the damn game! Aside from that, the game was quite fun. The idea rocked and the 
 controls were fluent and smooth. Climbing up the walls, jumping from buildings to objects, hiding 
 in the haystacks - all wonderful. You complete missions to regain your status as a top assassin 
 but after a while, like most of these games, it becomes a little old. You've done the same mission, 
 the methods of death are lacking variety and it all feels the same now.
  
  The biggest problem I expected in the game was that once you complete all the missions, there's 
 nothing left for you to do. You are left with a one-hundred-dollar game, sitting on your shelf 
 with nothing to offer you. This basically sums it up. I was really glad that I didn't purchase 
 the game because it wouldn't have been worth it. The experience was exciting because the game concept 
 is fresh. The controls felt really comfortable after adapting and you felt like you were strapped 
 in for a lengthy journey. If they were to re-invent and give it more life, I'd still be playing 
 this game. So if you're up for a one-time through game, then I strongly recommend it but to win 
 me over, you need a game which is going to last until its next edition and unfortunately, Assassin's 
 Creed runs out of juice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martez-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I've bought this game with the highest anticipation.
  The game was loved by allmost everyone and I had to have a look. They said it was a bit short and 
 quite repetitive after a while. I had to see this for myself...
  
  The game started with a plot. A bartender was kidnapped and has been put into research. He has 
 the memory of his ancestor who was an assassin locked away in his brain. With new technology they 
 could make him replay and relive what his grand grand grand x20 dad has done. Pretty cool concept 
 and right from the start I had the feeling the story has a lot to tell.
  
  When you lay down on the machine it takes you to a memory of Altair. He disobeyed the creed and 
 lost all his ranks. He is set to kill 9 important man to bring peace in the holy land.
  
  Combat:
  The combat has been taken to a higher level. You can counter, combo, dodge, trow knifes 
 and so on. Ofcourse you'll have to earn every ability back from scratch. That could be very anoying 
 because in the beginning of the game you can do it all. At first the battles are hard and not so 
 easy to win, so you run. But after a while with all the counters and combo's you can kill 30 guards 
 at one fight and you're not afraid when you're running around killing every guard you see.
  
  Movement:
  The great part of this game is to free-run in the city! You can litterly climb 
 on everything to get everywhere. That can be real fun and would keep you drooling on your controller 
 till the end of the game. The freedom you get it enormous.
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks fantastic. Every city lookes different and will keep on suprising you. When you 
 climb on the highest towers, get a good luck at the surroundings, then you notice how immersive 
 the towns really are. This game is just fun to look at and keeps on doing that till the end.
  
  Quests:
  The main quests are killing 9 of the most important men. Pretty cool mission if 
 you ask me. You need to speak with the Assassins bureau and then you need to investigate the whereabouts 
 of the target. That's cool in the beginning, but the other 8 times are boring. So you often just 
 stop playing because it's 9 times the same thing. But killing the targets is fun. They are all 
 on a different spot with different styles of story. So you know the boring parts where not for 
 nothing.
  
  The game is great, short but most of all just fun to look at!
  
  Goods:
  + Just feels amazing climbing up those buildings!
  + And it looks amazing too!
  + Feeling god 
 because it's all so easy
  + Combat is refressing
  
  Bads:
  - Short story and disturbing ending
  - The investigations get repetitive after a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game with a great big smile. Only payed 29.99 on Steam and was thinking... at 
 first... wow I got a great deal.
  
  The basic premise is great. You are watching old memories and not really the person. This makes 
 the gameplay feel more realistic. You have a few systems you need to master and you start playing.
 
  
  Then you realize this game is 1 level played in 3 worlds at 3 different difficulties. Basically 
 you gotta kill 9 dudes with a bunch of adventure game style taks in between. 
  
  I like adventure games so at first this seemed cool. The graphics are awesome. The climbing is 
 great. You really feel like you are climbing walls and up towers... but after a while you get really 
 tired of climbing towers. 
  
  Worse yet is that climbing towers and jumping between rooftops is highly error prone. The wrong 
 mouse button/keystroke and your falling off or jumping in a way you didn't want the character to 
 do. Basically it's just to complicated to really be fun.
  
  Fighting at first is fun and easy. Then it gets really hard and frustrating. Not a natrual build 
 up... but just making the problem so frustrating that it gets old. When you fight 3 or more people 
 it's just to hard to track them. The guy that wrote the camera code for this game needs to be shot.... although 
 that is true of most games. Can we start giving out Camera awards or something to get great camera 
 develolpers?
  
  This game is worth 19.99 and worth playing thru "Level 5"... you'll understand if you play it... after 
 that just pretend you finished it. From what I've read the ending is gay anyways. 
  
  Wrapup: Play this game for three days and you'll give it a 9.5 here....3-5 days...8.0.... more 7.5 
 or less. Damn it Ubisoft... hopefully the second in this series will fix the problems.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barrenkillakan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is very fun to play and has a very good and interesting story and way of presenting it 
 right up until the end. every mission is the same and go about doing the same things, collecting 
 information through beating people up, pickpocketing, and eavesdropping which gets annoying after 
 a while and you kill you main targerts by just runnig up to them and useing your secret blade, 
 or trying to do it like a true stealthy assassin, which is no fun. plus you have to do it 3 times 
 which every one of them after you kil them talk to you about what they where doing and why. and 
 in order to get the stuff to complete the assasination you need to run up these huge towers scattered 
 in one big area to see the stuff you need to do and what really make me angry is the ending not 
 that it doesnt make sense (cause it doesn't) it cause it didnt end the game it just stoped whit 
 more questions you can shake a Sh! t stick at. besides all that it is a good game with great content 
 and cant wait to play the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bergerkings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  this game is so close to perfect. The ending was bad and very confusing. also when going through 
 the kingdom area you cant get to a spot without being chased by the guards at least three times. 
 but still it is the most bad ass games ever... trowing a knife at an archer, priceless (about $50 
 for the game) . cant wait for the sequel. for AC2 they should have desmend be the assassin and you 
 can play as him. Then he'll have flash backs to Altiar's assassinations. It'll give the game a 
 new twist on things especially scence desmends character is so mystierious. And if you talked to 
 that girl, that i cant remberer her name, you find out that she is an assassin too. not only that 
 but what are those guys looking for? there is alot to answer in the sequel to Assassins Creed and 
 im looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jklbgdgklbnbn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a fantastic game!
  
  
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Although the ending is very confusing, the rest of the story plays out great. Within the first 
 5 minutes of playing Assassins Creed, you witness a huge plot twist: Your not really in 1911 AD 
 but in the future! You are kidnapped and use a machine called the Annamas (i can't remember if 
 that is what it is called) to access your ancestor's memory and replay his events from 1911 AD.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The detail on everything from your clothes, environment, weapons, etc, etc, etc, is amazing! 
 
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Sound effects are great and sound realistic.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  Climbing up walls and building is so easy when you learn how to do it. combat system is fun and 
 easy. Missions are really repetitive.
  
  Replayability: 9/10
  
  Although there is no multiplayer, I can't seem to stop playing this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  The game that I have been playing the most is Assassin's Creed. Yes, the game is essentially the 
 same thing over and over again, but isn't that pretty much every game? It's a great feeling to 
 play a game that makes you feel like a medieval assassin. The most fun that I have is running around 
 on rooftops and silently killing the guards that are posted there. I have only completed 3 of the 
 9 main assassinations so far, but I never feel an impulse to finish a game quickly. What fun is 
 that? I like to savor every moment and kill as many people as I can. Sadistic? a little, maybe, 
 but who cares.
  
  One thing that I will say is that the most annoying part of the game is the semi-futuristic subplot. 
 It occasionally pulls you out of the real game only to put you into a seemingly needless story 
 set in the future. At least it's not often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  *sigh* Assassin's Creed..... such a dissapointment in gaming history. When I saw the commercial 
 for this game, I was pretty excited but that excitment was quickly turned into anguish once I popped 
 that game into my Xbox. The game is just bad. The cinematic scenes are too fricken long and drawn 
 out. Its annoying that every time that you're sent on a mission you have to go up to a high point 
 and sync to find what it is you have to do. The freeroam isn't fun at all because whenever you 
 walk around you almost automaticly get chased by guards. When I saw this game, I thought it was 
 meant to be a stealth game, which it is, sorta. But not like the Theif games, those are fun, sneaking 
 around stealing goods killing guards then hiding the bodies. It's a lot of fun and that is what 
 I expected from this game. Not like when you kill your target you get attacked by guards even if 
 nobody was around or could have heard it. I do like how you eventually earn new weapons and it 
 makes parts of the game a lot easier. But sometimes too easy. Like this one guy you have to kill. 
 He has all these followers talking in the streets. So all you have to do is stay on the roofs and 
 throw knives at the people who are giving speaches and burning books. It's so fricken easy! I also 
 hate how if you rent it, and you rent it again like a few weeks later and your on a mission, you 
 probbably don't remember what it is your supposed to do. And the contacts don't tell you s**t! 
 It's really annoying! So don't waste your time or money on this game because it isn't worth it. 
 Oh, the best part of the game is....... THE END! No seriously thats the best part. I don't wanna 
 ruin it for you, but its pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I watched a lot of YouTube vids on this and all my friends loved it. my friend let me barrow it, yey! 
 ok your a bartender yanked to go in a lab to lay on this machine to see your ancencestors past, ok? 
 U screwed up so the assassin leader gives you a chance to redeem yourself (you broke the creed) 
 so you start by riding on a horse to the place. like shadow of the collosus. its like a GTA for that 
 time too. you allways end up climbing and interrigating ppl. each mission you have to get info 
 on the guy and send it to the base guy to get the ok then you're on your way to kill the big guy. 
 Repeat about 7 or 10 times and you got assassins creed all you need is some annoying back to the 
 lab to rest sequences and story i guess. at the end * (spoilers) * the leader was sending you to kill 
 all those guys because he was the last one with the treasure. and some messed up S#^! later with 
 some mystical orb you kill him and back to the lab. and your left there with weird signs and computers (lab) .* (over) * 
 it was fun. deffinitly barrow from a friend. it was different but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas81093
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  This game was one of 2007 most anticipated games. i mean practicaly everyone wanted it. But After 
 playing it i desided i jus waist 40 on some thing which il only play to end of the storyline. 
 anyone who hasnt played this yet id strongly advise you not to. even if from watching clips you 
 think it looks good but trust me it gets boring fast. on a rating of 1 to 10 gameplays is about 
 7. but i hate the story line so much the fact its set in modern/future times winds me up so much. 
 if they kept it in the time of the crusades then i would of played it more. But at the end of the 
 day this is my opinion and yours probly will differ.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---signed 
  UDZ INFERN0
  (This review was Wrote With a 3 Broken knuckles ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GmanIV
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is simply amazing game that no one should skip. The graphics are very well done, 
 definetly all the little details in the buildings and everything else. The fighting is also a blast 
 to do because it fun to see the guards coward in fear as you slaughter their fellow guards. The 
 story keeps you interested so you dont get bored you want to keep playing to get further. The opened 
 world gameplay is perfect for this game because you can run anywhere in the world and climb on 
 almost any building and just see the entire city and appreciate how big the game is. But after 
 a while some of the side missions get repitive. There is so much content in this game like find 
 all the flags and killer all those dang templars and just have fun killing guards that it should 
 keep you occupied for a long time . All in all Assassins creed is one of funnest games out and 
 is a experience no one should miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDuntBanMe
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 is no stranger to the open-world style game, but games in this genre haven't really 
 seen a world as beautiful as that of Assassin's Creed. Ubisoft has credited themselves for creating 
 almost exact duplicates of some of the Crusade's most famous cities, and although they may or may 
 not have succeeded in that venture (if anyone lived during that time and can verify this, send 
 us an email -- and then sell your story to the National Enquirer) , one thing they definitely succeeded 
 at was creating biblical references at every turn. And for some gamers (this one included) , those 
 references are far too numerous to find the game enjoyable, regardless of its gameplay quality.
 
  
  The story in Assassin's Creed is quite complex and twists a lot, so spoilers will be avoided as 
 much as possible. You'll play the part of Altair, a member of a creed of assassins that lived during 
 the Crusades and is active at the time of the game (1191 AD) . Altair is a high-ranking member of 
 the creed -- for the first couple minutes. As luck would have it, the game begins just as Altair 
 is being a complete ass to everybody and is quickly demoted, which result sin him being stripped 
 of all his cool weapons. You'll spend the rest of the game working to regain these weapons, and 
 along the way will be tasked with performing assassinations in order to regain Altair's rank as 
 well. It's impossible to avoid spoilers beyond this point, so that's enough story discussion.
 
  
  It's also impossible not to notice the graphics, because they are simply stunning. The cities are 
 incredibly well designed, and it's never too obvious that a structure is climbable. Speaking of 
 which, Altair is a pretty acrobatic guy, with the ability to climb almost everything. Oftentimes, 
 climbing and jumping are the fastest ways to get around, and in fact, you'll be required to climb 
 to some of the highest points in the cities in order to discover parts of the map. This is a sensible 
 idea at first, but it gets old and tedious very quickly.
  
  As an assassin, you'll obviously have to make sure your targets sleep with the fishes. You'll have 
 a few different methods in which to effectively do this. Altair has access to four different kinds 
 of weapons, namely throwing knives, a short blade, a classic sword and a hidden blade for that 
 murderer on the go. Throwing knives are one-hit kills if you have steady aim, but assembly-line 
 henchmen are the only ones who are dumb enough to be caught unaware by them. The short blade and 
 sword are used when you are outnumbered, which happens a lot more often then is really necessary. 
 Both weapons naturally have different gameplay traits, as the short blade is quick but has weak 
 guard whereas the sword is slower but more powerful.
  
  Altair's favorite toy, though, is the hidden blade that he keeps secured in the secret compartment 
 in his hand. Yes, a secret compartment in his hand; Altair's ring finger was cut off as a ritual 
 to join the Creed. With the loss of a finger, he is like Mickey Mouse, but unlike Mickey, he frequently 
 uses his hidden blade to assassinate targets, as it is the easiest way of doing so. Switching weapons 
 is also easy, as you'll simply use the D-pad to do so on the fly. 
  
  Aside from the D-pad, the controls are numerous but the learning curve is surprisingly quick, as 
 the buttons are conveniently placed in the same positions as the part of Altair's body they control. 
 For example, the bottommost A button (Altair's legs) controls whether your running or walking, 
 while the X and B buttons (the arms) control shoving, punching, assassinating, high-fiving, etc. 
 Finally, the Y button (the head) controls first-person view AKA "Eagle Vision." In addition to 
 all this, holding the right trigger engages high-profile versions of the various actions. This 
 means you'll be less discreet, such as sprinting across town or shoving people out of your way. 
 And while the tough stuff may be fun, the guards aren't fond of rabble rousers. 
  
  The guards you'll encounter most often aren't all that bright. If your cover gets blown, you'll 
 have to break the line of sight with the guard, usually with some acrobatics, and hide until the 
 guards quickly give up and hope the problem resolves itself. However, although the guards may not 
 be Einsteins, they will remember you, so leaving the area after murder is often a good idea.
  
  If you're hungry for Xbox Live Achievements, I've got both good and bad news. The upside is 
 that you'll get a good chunk of them by just playing through the game and killing lots of guards. 
 The (very) bad news is that this is a sandbox game, which means (ugh) collectibles. Lots of them. 
 You'll have to scour the cities for hundreds of flags and Altair's rivals, the Templars, in order 
 to get all 1000 points.
  
  Since Assassin's Creed is an open-world game, this sort of scouring and battling might not seem 
 like a bad thing, because the genre lets gamers do whatever they feel like. Want to push people 
 around and start fist fights? Go right ahead. Feel like starting a panic by throwing a dead body 
 into a group of people? Go crazy. Curious to see exactly how many guards are in the square, and 
 all you have is your sword to do the counting? You can do that, too. People will realistically 
 react to your actions, such as calling you crazy when you push poor people around, or even helping 
 the guards by throwing rocks at you when you're trying to climb.
  
  But with a fast-paced combat system that makes you duck and counter-move frequently against hordes 
 of enemies, you'll grow tired of the combat very early on. Which brings me to my biggest complaint: 
 the game doesn't punish you for not being stealthy. I know the idea of actually wanting punishment 
 sounds odd, but bear with me. The game is called "Assassin's Creed," isn't it? I was led to believe 
 that meant I was supposed to plan my assassinations and be the silent killer. However, every target 
 can be killed by waving your sword above your head, running up to them and hacking them to pieces. 
 You can then choose to either fight the horde of guards hanging around or run away and hide. Some 
 targets even require you to hack and slash your way through waves of hapless cannon fodder to get 
 the kill. Where's the tact in that?
  
  Assassin's Creed is innovative, pretty and provides plenty of fun during the Crusades. In that 
 nuts-and-bolts sense, it lives up to expectations. But as a finished and complete product, the 
 actual combat and confusing story keep this game from assassinating the competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadpan666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  After month's of hype and a lot of anticipation, Assassin's Creed was released to the world..
 
  
  Having picked up a copy a while after the initial fuss, I wondered what it had all been about. 
 Whilst a perfectly decent game, (and with graphics to die for) I found it all a bit samey and repetitive.. You 
 are constantly doing the same things, people are saying the same stuff, yada yada yada, bish bash 
 bosh....
  
  Invisible wall syndrome pops up quite a bit in the game, too... but the developers have an excuse 
 for that which I won't tell you, because if you don't know the plot, it would be a major spoiler.
 
  
  Basically, if you can look beyond it's flaws and accept the fact that despite the hype this feels 
 very much like "a computer game" and does nothing at all new (even the much talked about "free 
 running" of the game has been seen before in titles like Prince of Persia and Mark Ecko's Getting 
 up... although it is done a lot better here!) ... then you will find a fun title that is best played 
 in short bursts. What it does it does well, but it isn't going to change the face of gaming. I 
 am looking forward to a sequel though...
  
  *Well, what did you make of my first review? Bit rubbish, eh?!? Not bad for being hungover and 
 half-asleep though.. stick with them. They'll get better...*
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencarps41192
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of my favorite games. The combat system is so awesome. once you learn how to do 
 the counters you will be picking fights all over the place. Some people have said the game gets 
 old, i dont see where they get that. The story is pretty good even though i would have thought 
 it would have been a bit cooler if it ahdnt of ended the way it did. (one of the only let downs) . 
 Id have to say 2 of the coolest things in the game are how you run up wall and around the buildings, 
 and the other is how you pull off your assasinations. the game is beautiful as a whole. There are 
 plenty of irrattating times but once you figure how to get threw you will feel a satisfaction. 
 The drawing distances are really good and the grafics are pretty nice. The places you go are pretty 
 nice. The different weapons you get are very cool. Id recomend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamlogsdon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is a game based on the old times in a medievil world. the world is all in your 
 memory and you have to complete your missions by, pickpocketing other people, listening closely 
 to others and beating people for information. there are six cities and one person in each city 
 you are after, that is why you need to pickpocket, listen closely and beat people for infor mation 
 this all leads to the enemy at the end of each city. after killing one of the particular people 
 you are after you return to your boss and recieve a new weapon. I like this game because you can 
 free roam around each city but you cannot access some parts of the city if you have not completed 
 a certain mission.
  but after a while you will be able to access any area of any city and also in the game there is 
 save citizen missions when you have to save a particular person and when you have done that you 
 get yourself a little group of people who help you fight when your in danger. hope you have fun 
 with this game. (Adam) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMAC21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game in its own class, Witha story line that can lead onto many possbilities, 
 The game play itself is gracefull, Highly addictive and easy toget used to, However there are moments 
 when you can get to careless in your movements and it can cost you belive me.
  
  The weaponery in the game is creative an usefull, Obviously a Sword and knifes, but the inclusion 
 of a smal blade and a attached thursting blade for professional assassinations makes tha game what 
 it is, Its not just another... if you like "shoot em up" (basically killing people) it adds more 
 where you have to use your movements alot more and think about your move and how to escape
  
  The graphics are one of the best ive seen so far, Making it more reaslistic and although one 
 or two people may find it somehwat offensive in a religious way, It can really drag you into its 
 life and belive that all this can happen... if your into this sort of thing.
  
  In summary, It is one of the best games ive ever owned, Im not sure if i'll ever get rid of it, 
 There is talk of a new one and that will be interesting to see where/when it is set out, But for 
 now, This is a MUST BY FOR ALL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heroldp813
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games for someone who never has played it b/f. Its a good game, and 
 for the people who do own it can tell you they loved it at first, but after the 4-5th assassination 
 they were tired of the game. I would definetly recommend it as a purchase but would avoid playing 
 this game for more than an hour or two. The only reason i say this is b/c of the repetition of 
 some of the mission. Must you always go down the same route to assassin someone. I must admit jumping 
 from rooftop to rooftop is a little therapeudic. And the fact that you can take on 20 guys by yoursellf 
 for me was pretty cool (Some will disagree and say that it's to easy) . All in all get thegame but 
 don't play it for long periods of time. What else can i say this thing is asking me for more characters 
 but i ran out of comments oh well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirboppel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  OMG THE MOST OVER RATED GAME IN HISTORY IS GAME OMG THIS GAME IS REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT ITS SICKNING 
 RLLY COME A 9 A 9 U DO THE SAME THING OVER AND OVER AND OVER u can just walk up to the guy u want 
 to kill and just stab him and whip out the whole army and run away repeat that for the whole game 
 and those guy for some reason u cant finish is rllllly gay well its worth a rent maybe if i just 
 liked to run around roof tops in the game this and gears of war r over rated just like the new 
 perfect dark to describe this game REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT 
 REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT 
 REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEATREPEAT 
 REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT 
 REPEAT REPEAT REPEAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbottiggi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is badassed simply put. Once you get the flow of the game and it's fighting system, it 
 really allows you to fluidly cruise around and kill with style and finesse. It's very repetitive 
 in a sense, but there are lots different types of situations that can occur from doing the same 
 types of missions over again that made the game extremely addictive for me.
  
  If your a fan of the Grand Theft Auto games or Prince of Persia you will probably enjoy this one. 
 It's like GTA in the way that you can run about and interact with people. There are consequences 
 to your actions and you can either evade them or confront them. The platforming is woven into the 
 gameplay very well. But there are a few things that annoyed me from time to time. Some intended 
 some not.
  
  For one, everytime you save a citizen the screen turns blue and the view becomes very disorienting. 
 This also happens when you pick up a flag. Now it's not a huge deal to have the screen flash brightly 
 when you normally pick up a flag but if your in the middle of a getaway and you notice that one 
 flag that you probably won't remember where it was, it can mess up your entire flow after you grab 
 it.
  
  There are two other things that drove me nuts when they happened, although they didn't happen too 
 frequently once I understood the concepts. One is the drunks that push you. They are quite annoying, 
 but just getting pushed can be enough to blow your cover even if you are blending. Wouldn't soldiers 
 rather arrest the drunk? That foiled a mission attempt or two for me. 
  
  The other is that when you are blending you are moving very slowly. But if you run into a pot carrier 
 it will still knock over their goods. This only became annoying when I was under heavy suspicion 
 and had to blend to avoid mission failure. Sure enough I turn around and some idiot with a pot 
 drops it and I need to kill 5 more assassinations targets all over again. Basically there should 
 be a way to blend and gently pass NPC's at the same time. 
  
  Other than a few bad camera angles and such, those were my only complaints, and they are nitpicking 
 so overall the game rocks. Everything is well designed, the graphics are great and the cities really 
 come alive with all of the unique architecture and it's citizens. It takes a little bit to get 
 going, but once you are on your first mission to Damascus is where the real fun begins.
  
  The storyline is very strange. There is a futuristic one coinciding with the medieval one. When 
 you beat the game, it is well resolved in the ancient world, but not so much in the futuristic 
 one. But it is original so I guess I can't complain too much. The game isn't too difficult. If 
 you get the counter kill and combo kill down pat, then you shouldn't have any trouble with the 
 fighting. Once you get the mechanics of it you can dominate with style. The platforming is pretty 
 straight forward as well. It just takes the right timing and directional movement to keep yourself 
 from landing in the wrong places. There is a bit of strategy to some of the kills, but you can 
 jump into most situations and still be ok.
  
  So if your looking for a new gaming experience that requires stealth, combat and platforming with 
 good old school weapons like knives and swords, this game is probably for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Fun action for the most part, Great story, hooking, great graphics, Altiar is cool!
  Cons: Gameplay is repetitive, combat in groups is annoying, confusing ending!!, Some story sequences 
 are way too long. Not REALLY in that time period
  
  Assassins Creed is one of the top games of 2008 due to its great story and graphics. The only problem 
 and its a critual one is actual gameplay in assassins creed. You do have fun for a few hours, but 
 after a while it get to be a drag, and tedious 
  
  The story in assassin's creed is really confusing, and i will try to give away as much as i can 
 without ruining the story. You basically are not Altair at all, however you are playing as Desmond 
 Milies, a Bartender in the near future. This guy is not normal however, he comes from a long line 
 of Assassins. In the future there is a device called the Atimus, where it simulates what goes on 
 in your distant memories (ancestor's) so by being keept hostage, you are force to relive a part 
 of Altair's Life. Throughout the game you get some hints about the real truth of you being there, 
 however you really don't get the full story in this game alone. 
  
  When Your in the Atimus you are part of a brotherhood of Assassins, you start the game as a high 
 ranked, however you get stripped of your rank and weapons, so you have to regain your experiance 
 by taking out 8 men who are doing courrupt deeds in there respective cities. 
  
  You will travel great distances at first to get to each historical city. They include Jerusalem, 
 Damascus, and others. Each city having a different feel, but knowing they are very close in designs. 
 The citys are huge and grand, all the land you see you can go to. It feels like a real city, for 
 the most part.
  
  The main problem with this game is like i said repetitive. Basically each missions go like this..
 
  Travel to city
  Go to Assassins Center 
  Find out info of victim
  Go back and get feather to murdur after enough info by either pickpocketing, overhearing coverstaions, 
 beating a preacher to get him to talk, or doing "Mini" missions
  Kill the guy 
  Return to Center
  Next mission
  
  When you first do this its reallyy fun, but after a few 
 times you get tired of doing the same old thing you did before. The funny thing is the game does 
 not get much harder when you progress, most assassinations just involve finding the guy and killing 
 him.
  
  Since this is an action game lets talk about that. Altair starts with everything, then looses it 
 all, and gets it back. So of his wepons are thowing knives for far ranged enimies, Sword, Dagger 
 Knife, and finally his most famous assassins weapon. Without a doubt that is the most satisfying 
 way to kill someone. With all these tools you think it would be a little hack and slash, however 
 you have to be in groups of people. What that is, is a whole bunch of people surround you. The 
 best way to kill everyone is to stand still and counter everything. Since you never really get 
 doubled teamed you can easily take out 10 men without getting hurt. This also is boring after a 
 while, most notably towards the end since guards are most aware of you, so you get attacked for 
 just walking down the road sometimes. This is not the strong point of the game. However its fun 
 to go around assassinating people, however you will get in trouble if caught, so hid in hay stacks, 
 or get a crew of rebels to fight off the guards, or blend in with church goers.. Its a stealth 
 game remember, you should not draw attention by killing a random dude in the middle of the streets
 
  
  The Graphics on this game is simply stunning. Graphics are not a huge factor when i pick a game, 
 however this one had way above average, espically on the 360 (Ps3 lacked some features) when you 
 climb up buildings and see the towns, wow.. looks amazing! speaking of climbing..
  
  Climbing is a big part of assassins creed, you need it to get rid of guards, to sychronize with 
 the town, or just get by faster. the controls of this is quite simple, yet takes a few times. A 
 lot of the actions are by A, you run, you jump, you push etc.. you usally start off with a jump, 
 instead of hitting buttons to traverse the buildings. you use the stick to guide you. its a little 
 hard to get used to it, but a few walls and you will get the hang of it. 
  
  The Controls are awakward at times, yet once you get a feel for them its no problem.. Like GTA 
 IV its hard to get a grisp of them, however after about the 1st mission, all the controls should 
 be easy to understand. Its not a steep as GTA IV, but not as easy as other games in the genre.
 
  
  Overall Assassins Creed is better to look at and view as a work of art. When you get beyond the 
 great story, and presentation, you are found with a repetitive game that does not do anything different 
 after the first mission pretty much. its the same old stuff. But as far as story and altair being 
 a bad ass, it well surpasses most games. Get your assassin weapons ready, time to assassinate someone
 
  
  Breakdown 
  Gameplay: Lacking, can get very boring doing the missions, however killing people like altair is 
 pretty fun for the most part
  Graphics: Top Looking games i have played ever
  Sound: Voice acting is very well, but music is very forgetable, not much in the game besides talking, 
 some lines do repeat from different people, can get annoying
  Value: No online is weird for a 2008 game, no added content, and a short game makes this one game 
 a beak it and never play it again types
  Overall: It might have been better had it been a movie.. seems like that was first priority, story 
 and presentation, depends what you like in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianai
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant. It is definitely a ground-breaking achievement. The graphics are beautiful, 
 and the game-play is extremely unique. I found however that the game fell a bit short after my 
 third assassination. While I continued to enjoy myself, and definitely enjoyed my new moves and 
 equipment, it felt like more of the same for the next seven missions. Go to the bureau, scale some 
 towers, eavesdrop and issue some beatings, save some citizens, kill countless guards who always 
 wait until you're done killing the current victim to attack, get a feather, kill your target, hide 
 in some hay, get another mission. Now don't get me wrong, I did enjoy it, all of it. Maybe I am 
 just a true master of the counter-attack, but there was simply no difficulty in slaughtering wave 
 after wave of guards. At one time I was able to count a pile of over 50 bodies on the ground, and 
 they just kept coming. "Who's responsible for this?" as I'm yelling at the TV that I did it and 
 I'm right here. 
  
  A wonderful game, full of amazing feats but just a little short. Still, to feel this negatively 
 about it as a whole and still feel compelled to give it 8/10 obviously says something.
  
  Absolutely worth a purchase, no question there!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Good: 
  I bet they put a lot of effort on making assassins creed. the graphics are unquestionably mind 
 blowing. did you notice the shadows and color tone, they're just awesome. the game play is kinda 
 a little bit repetitive but addictive. you run around collecting information before you assassinate 
 your target, but you can choose a variety of badass moves on how to kill those guys. 
  
  Bad: 
  what is cruel is every city has flags to collect. Here's a newsflash, I can't help noticing 
 that these areas are extremely huge and collecting flags all the way through towns can be a pain 
 in the **** What's worse is that collecting these babies are accountable as achievements, so good 
 luck guys. 
  
  Overall: 
  besides that there's seem to be no other downside or bugs. If you finish the game till the end, 
 you'll fins that the story isn't half bad, in fact it's rather good. Plus it has interesting theme 
 by viewing the memory from Altair's future self through animus. it's not a perfect game per se, 
 but those guys worked their ass off for this one so it's definitely a 9.5 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Wow!!! That pretty much describes this game. It's one of those games that makes no sense when you 
 start out, but once you get more and more involved in the game it like becomes apart of you. The 
 story is absolutely ridiculous. So much fun being an assassin and having free reign all over the 
 kingdom and different villages. This is a very wide open game and when I say that I mean that you 
 can pretty much go anywhere you want and do whatever you want too. The missions are very intense 
 especially when you have to make your assassination and escape. It gets more difficult as the game 
 progress especially towards the end because the task ahead seems to be impossible, but trust me 
 if you practice all the fighting techniques and other game plays you'll blow right through it. 
 Now I do recommend getting the Guide with this game because it helps make sense of this game. I 
 spent a lot of time on this game because I'm big on getting the maximum amount of achievement points 
 in a game. The guide definitely helps you accomplish that. I think I got something like 985/1000. 
 I did have a problem finding some of the templar flags they just weren't at the location the map 
 said, but this game is definitely an Instant Classic and a great movie candidate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rascarin
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Considering how much hype Assassins Creed received prior to its launch, the game really should 
 have been a lot better than it turned out to be. The game fails in a number of ways, meaning that 
 a game which could have been rather good, became little more than a dreary pile of mediocrity.
 
  
  The storyline started dull and only deteriorated from there. Cutscenes were drab and uninspired, 
 and were annoyingly unskippable. The ending was quite possibly one of the worst I have ever experienced.
 
  
  Gameplay offers little - most everything can be achieved by simply holding the right trigger and 
 A, and just running towards stuff. This system took control away from the player as Altair did 
 everything by himself, as opposed to games such as Prince of Persia where a number of buttons controlled 
 various runny/jumpy actions. Combat, again, brings nothing new to the table. Spamming the X button 
 is all that is required in almost any battle sequence.
  
  Stealth mode is nonexistant. One would expect a game called ASSASSIN's Creed to feature some sort 
 of stealthy assassin stuff. However, all the main objectives can be achieved without any attempt 
 at furtiveness. Killing your target in the middle of a crowd of onlookers is just as acceptable 
 as trying to do it quietly.
  
  Simple one-button gameplay doesn't do much for the difficulty in Assassin's Creed - it never offers 
 any real challenge, with the possible exception of one battle towards the end, but even that was 
 overcome without much hardship. The lack of challenge leaves the player feeling unfulfilled by 
 the end of the game, especially considering how insultingly easy the final boss is.
  
  Despite the appalling storyline and unimaginative control system, the game CAN be fun to play. 
 There is something oddly pleasing about gallivanting over rooftops and gaily shoving guards to 
 their doom. Punching lepers is strangely satisfying, and hurling beggar women into market stands 
 and killing everyone nearby in the process is always amusing.
  
  
  So to summarise: Something fun to play for twenty minutes or so, but as a story-driven game it 
 fails spectacularly. Assassinations are disappointing, but killing helpless civilians will make 
 up for it.
  
  My rating: 5.0 - It's mediocre; nowhere near as good as it promised to be, but not abysmal.
  
 My verdict: Worth picking up if you see it going cheap and you feel like knocking a lepers teeth 
 out or earning some achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp3_Beta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed was one of my most anticipated game of all time then when i played it.. it was 
 so fun and exiting then.. 4 days later i got bored.. there was so much repetition i could of practically 
 lip synced the dialog. The graphics are simple amazing. The gameplay was good but my one major 
 flaw was that it seemed to easy and boring in my opinion they should of done it like prince of 
 Persia (manual) instead of automatic wall climbing like they did in this game. The dialog and voice 
 work is not bad but why does Altair talk so American compared to others it didn't feel like Altair 
 was talking. Everybody else was superb. ENDING WAS HORRIBLE TO MUCH FANTASY INVOLVED.. nuff said 
 (no spoilers) and they gave away the big surprise at the begging : ( This game is a boring open 
 world game nothing to do but quest/missions/ what ever.... The gameplay seems fun at first but 
 after you play for a few hours it get soooooooo boring and later on you don't care about the upgrades 
 
  
  So this is what i think of ASSassins creed one of the top ten biggest disappointments of 05-09 
 ... O. o 
  
  So if you agree give a thumb up if you don't tell me why some how...
  
  Gameplay 7.5
  presentation 9.0
  Design 7.8
  enjoyability 6.8
  E. O. R (evaluation overall 
 rating) 7.2 (its more precise than the score up there^^ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donkeykong8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  After months of waiting for this game I finally got it! Wow, what a game!... was what I first thought, 
 and I stuck with that for a while. Then it went wrong. I'll explain.
  
  Assassins creed is an immense game when you get it but some aspects change, they age shall I say. 
 The graphics are insane; the detail put in is crazy. Ubisoft have got the graphics down to a knot. 
 The way Altair's cloak swings and the way the shadows fall, the way the people react, the way he 
 moves and where he can go, the building details! The little things really do matter in this game. 
 If I was basing this review on graphics I would give 11 out of 10! 
  
  The controls are great, nice and simple. This is definitely the easiest way to free run. And the 
 combat system is great. The way the camera slows when your counter-attack your foe and slice off 
 his arm is just a really good touch. The world in which he lives is also huge! Travel through Jerusalem, 
 Damascus and even the bits in-between. Even when you have completed the story you'll be set for 
 life trying to find all the flags and Templars over the regions!
  
  The choice of weapons are quite individual as well. Altair is equipped with a hidden blade (very 
 fun and cool) , a few throwing knives/dagger and a sword/blade - All VERY cool weapons and fun to 
 use.
  
  The storyline is a bit odd but then you get into the swing of things and it is really quite clever. 
 I won't give to much away though! The story line is ace as wellto start with. 
  
  It's a very satisfying game, this is though. So you are all probably thinking "What's wrong with 
 it then?". Well, the problem is actually the missions. The first three assassinations is great 
 fun and can be quite challenging but then it just gets tedious! The missions are nearly exactly 
 the same all the time! Go listen in, go steal some stuff then BAM he's dead and onto the next mission 
 which is exactly the same - Go listen in, go steal some stuff.... and on and on and on! Its like 
 they made the world and the characters then gave up. And it's so infuriating. It could have been 
 so good but they just went and gave up!
  
  So my message is, if you want this game - DONT BUY IT - go play it at your mates house, trust me, 
 do a couple of his missions then leave. You want to do much more!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful, challenging, exciting, and addictive masterpiece. It has an intricately 
 woven and gripping storyline that compells you to continue playing just to discover the root cause 
 of the events taking place. The gameplay is extremely fluid, and the combat feels very lifelike. 
 No other game has captured the realism and brutality of a sword fight like Assassin's Creed. Killing 
 someone with a blade is a very intimate, very personal act, and this game displays every chilling 
 detail. It's by far not the goriest game I've ever played, but the sheer coldness of it all can 
 get a bit disturbing at times. The gameworld is massive for an action adventure game, RPG size 
 actually, and it allows you the freedom to explore and complete missions any way you wish and in 
 whatever order you choose. Graphically, there is none better, it's one of the 360's elite. Everything 
 feels very true to life, from the environmental and particle effects, to the shadows and ambient 
 lighting. This is one of those games that you won't soon forget. It's a standard setting game that 
 many will compare other games to for years to come. I would highly recommend this game to anyone, 
 and for you serious gamers out there (as I am one myself) there is plenty to be enjoyed here. You 
 won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat-Puppet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I wanted desperately for this game to blow my mind. I wanted this game to change my life. And, 
 while Assassin's Creed is like nothing I've played before, all I could help but do is think about 
 what could have been.
  
  Graphically this game is amazing. It is so full of little tiny details that, still to this day 
 I can put it in and be surprised by something. From the awe-inspiring views, to a single character 
 model, the attention to detail is very impressing.
  
  The scale of the game is equally impressive, somehow managing to squeeze in three large cities, 
 an even larger open area full of small villages and a smaller city, where the Assassin's are based. 
 Perhaps the only complaint that one can make is that the cities don't differentiate enough, and 
 eventually all feel like the same city. But, if the game play had been varied enough, that probably 
 wouldn't have been a problem.
  
  Unfortunately for Assassin's Creed, though, the game play isn't that varied at all. In fact, during 
 the mid-to-late missions, the objectives become to feel more like chores, and, in my case anyways, 
 it was a real struggle to actually keep on slugging through.
  
  Despite the fact that it can be repetitive, this is a game that needs to be played by everyone. 
 This is like a blueprint, a teaser if you like, of what is yet to come. This is the first truly 
 next generation video game, and has certainly set the bar for things to come.
  
  Let's hope that the sequel can meet our extraordinary expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerpetualBliss
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The story catches your interest right away and the gameplay is fun and addictive... at first. After 
 the third or fourth assassination mission, you're left wondering what happened to the character 
 development and the "open-ended" gameplay. Each mission requires you to perform several mindless 
 tasks (that are always the same) in order to determine your target's location, and after you kill 
 your target, the story does advance, but SLOWLY. Eventually, this slow advancement leaves you frustrated. 
 Finally, the story "ends," but the ending is sudden and unremarkable, leaving you a little dissapointed 
 that you wasted so much time playing through the game. Honestly, it's more fun to just free-run 
 and/or kill some guards in close combat for awhile than it is to play the game, so I have to wonder 
 why this game got such high ratings.
  
  Does it live up to the hype? No, absolutely not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off I dont own this game but I have played it about forty hours. So I LOVED this game 
 its just amazing. The visuals and graphics are stunning. The large scale free roam world is just 
 amazing. The setting, the most affected areas of the Crusades is so thrilling. The gameplay just 
 adds on to this since you can climb on anything that sticks out or is 3D. The assassinations and 
 sword fights look amazing and the combat system is brilliant, and the crowd interaction is equally 
 genius. The guard chases are so thrilling. You can just feel your blood pumping and the adrenaline. 
 The sound effects also make the game that much more interesting. From the clash of swords to the 
 breaking jars in the crowd, they are so great. And of course the incredible story. I guess I wont 
 ruin it for those of you who have not beat it, but it is well worth the wait. Actually this is 
 one of the few games that I dont see many negatives in. This is seriously an amazing game. If you 
 havent played it already it a try you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay, sometimes I get a game that is inspiring -- one that tears down the walls of everything I knew 
 about gaming and that combines exellent and varied gameplay. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is not that game. 
  
  In the game, you are a descendent of Medievil assassin 
 Altair. One day you are kidnapped by a kooky doctor and become involved in an experiment he has 
 to try and investigate "genetic memories" -- memories that are preserved in one's genes. The true 
 gameplay involves one filling the shoes of Altair himself. Players are charged with assassinating 
 a certain amount of people.
  
  Thats it.
  
  While each assassination occurs in a different setting -- and with different quirks and tricks to 
 accomplishing it, one is literally assassinating people the whole game without variation. 
  
  Don't get me wrong -- there is truely nothing like pulling-off a quick, easy, hitchless kill -- and 
 getting away without problems. The problem is that the game becomes clockwork at some point and 
 you will have to put it away for a month or so until the game is "new" again.
  
  The control scheme of the game works excellently -- never did I find any maneuvers awkward -- and combos 
 are never too easy nor too hard to land perfectly (possibly another reason for its "descent" score) . 
 The game looks good barring random glitches and clip-throughs.
  
  The game has everything behind it to make it an excellent title -- good controls, graphics -- a killer 
 backstory, but lacks the proper implementation needed to give it a higher score than "good". 
 
  
  HeadshotJackal's Review: II gave this game 7/10. It is a fun game that, despite unvaried gameplay, 
 makes a good adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_and_Ice
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Back in the days when prince of persia 3 released I couldn't wait to play the game so I finished 
 it but as happy I was as disappointed because a very beautiful series ended with POP 3 .. so I 
 waited for a game that refresh the prince style and just in time Assassin's Creed arrived ..
  
  :GamePlay:
  ----------
  the gameplay of Assassin's Creed is beautiful and fresh ..
  basically 
 your mission in the game is to assassin a bunch of leaders who positioned in different cities .. 
 your mission usually starts with you going to the mentioned city and investigate about the target 
 .. your investigation usually take 3 out of 6 actions you do in the city .. these actions vary 
 from pickpocketing to assassinating etc. and after doing your investigation you go to the main 
 target and assassin him .. 
  but the game isn't that easy because you'll have to do all of this in the shadows away from the 
 guards' eyes and when they spot you they'll chase you so 
  then you'll have to vanish in the roofs .. 
  the gameplay in overall is beautiful but a little 
 repeative ... 
  
  --__ -- __ -- _-_-_-
  
  :Graphics & Sounds:
  ----------
  the graphics of the game is Very very , i mean very , beautiful ... the environments are impressively 
 good and everything detailed beautifully .. the character moving engine is great and the AI Is 
 more then acceptable 
  coming to the sounds .. they're GOOD .. the dialog is so alive and the sound effects are beautiful 
 .. you can literally hear everything in the environment specially you'll be walking in markets 
 so there'll alot of peoples there and you can here everyone of them individually .. the Arabic 
 dialog is so good and real .. 
  
  :ratings:
  ----------
  Gameplay : 88/100
  Graphics : 91/100
  sounds : 90/100
  Overall : 90/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_deed
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very intense game that really bring the you to the for front of the past. 
 This game really brought something new to the table, for those gamers who wanted to immerse themselves 
 in a great story line paired up with an overall fun to play character this your style of game. 
 I think the graphics are unbelievable and game controls are soo smooth, you feel like move transition 
 are effortlessly performed. One of the best aspects of the game is that you can climb everything 
 and anything, nothing is off limits. If it looks like you can climb it 99% of the time you can. 
 You also have to climb to top of high buildings forview pointswhen you finally reach the 
 top the view is incredible. As well as the transition back to street level is nothing more then 
 a quick jump down to a hay wagon. All and all this game is a must play and would recommend it to 
 anyone who likes to try something a little different and along the lines of role playing and medieval 
 battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I'll buy a game, and for some reason, even if it's a good game, I just can't get into 
 it. Assassin's Creed is that kind of game for me. Graphically, the game is probably one of the 
 best on xbox 360. Everything from music and sound are excellent as well. Gameplay wise, however, 
 I personally did not feel comfortable with the controls. But what really killed it for me was the 
 premise. The whole story of going back into someone's past life was just kinda corny. However, 
 again, that's just me. Assassin's Creed is a very good game that many will enjoy, even if I didn't. 
 I would also say the biggest positive is the game's atmosphere, which is fantastic. The animations 
 are also top notch. I'm sure there will be a sequel. Also, the open world environment is nicely 
 done, as you can see activity going on at all corners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  It's a rare thing in this day and age for game publishers to take a genuine risk and invest in 
 a game concept that steps outside the norm. So I was extremely excited by the potential of Assassin's 
 Creed when I first saw its debut trailer. 
  
  Assassin's Creed tries something truly innovative by combining a third-person "parkour" (free-running) 
 simulation with interactive crowd dynamics. The concept revolves around a character named Altair 
 who is compelled to embark on a series of assassination missions during the time of the Crusades 
 in order to restore his honor after committing a prideful mistake.
  
  Each mission centers around taking out a different target, all of whom are playing a part in fueling 
 the Crusades. The pacing of each attack, from sneaking up on the target to executing the strike, 
 to fleeing from the ensuing soldiers, is genuinely thrilling the first time. Unfortunately, Assassin's 
 Creed takes this formula and recycles it over and over again, creating a palpable sense of repetition.
 
  
  The main missions aren't the only repetitive elements; the side missions (climbing towers to scan 
 the city, taking out other targets) and pre-mission errands (spying on pedestrians, pick-pocketing, 
 interrogation) suffer from the same syndrome. What's more, while AC's free-running mechanics exhibit 
 fluid animation and offer enormous freedom, they're not designed well for the chaotic getaway missions.
 
  
  Still, AC is a stunner in the visuals department (both graphics & art style) , and the combat system 
 is very engaging (though it becomes repetitive after awhile too) . In sum, AC leaps for a high rooftop, 
 but ultimately doesn't have the legs to make the jump. With great gameplay variety and smoother 
 getaway mechanics, Assassin's Creed could truly have been something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEANO101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, its one you will never forget but the sad thing is that its only on XBOX 
 !!! But that is'nt the end of the world. I think that this game is best suited to people that love 
 action, adventure and a great game (that everone loves) . The reason this game is a must play is that 
 the graphics, the abilty to climb up buildings and towers that you would never think are possible 
 to climb, the vastness of the towns and cities, The things you can do, hear and see and much much 
 more are just simply outstanding and absolutly amazeing. I could name alot more top class and brillant 
 features about this great game. I just hope you get the message that this game is an absolute must 
 play!!! HAPPY GAMING MY FRIENDS!!! PS I WOULD LOVE IF YOU COULD BE MY FRIEND AND CHECK OUT MY BLOG 
 IM HAVING TROUBLE MAKING FRIENDS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFurious78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  It is immediately apparent when playing this game that a lot of planning and hard work went into 
 the immensely detailed and intricate environments presented in Assassin's Creed. The graphics in 
 this game are perhaps the best that I've experienced first hand so far for the Xbox 360. You truly 
 feel like you've been transported back to the Holy Land during the time of the crusades. Not to 
 mention that the character that you get to play, Altair, is beyond cool. He shows the reflexes 
 of a cat as he bounds and leaps from rooftop to rooftop, or climbs to the precipice of a giant 
 tower. He is also highly skilled with several manner of blades, and is given many opportunities 
 to show off these skills. In addition, he has somewhat of a rogue attitude that adds a refreshing 
 and entertaining flavor to many of the cut scenes. The main problem with this game can be summed 
 up in one word though: repetitiveness. There are only a handful of tasks that you are asked to 
 perform in this game, and with an average play-time of 40+ hours, you are required to complete 
 these tasks over and over and over again. These include scaling tall buildings to gain a vantage 
 point, gathering hidden flags, saving citizens from abusive city guards plus a few others. These 
 are a lot of fun, but anything can get boring if it's repeated enough. Also, the developers should 
 have spent a wee bit more time in the recording studio. The dialogue from the citizens on the street 
 and a lot of the one's you interact with is not very rich in content. You end up hearing the same 
 phrases ad-nausium. This is something that could have been easily fixed, but was ignored. In summation, 
 the fun to be had in the world of Assassin's Creed is enough to distract you from some of the glaring 
 faults, but these faults still detract from the overall experience of the game. Maybe they'll be 
 ironed out in the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThefallenAngel3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Assassin's Creed is beautiful and so open that if you didnt have a map, you'll be lost 
 like a baby in a mall. A bar tender named Desmond, one of the main characters, is captured be a 
 scientist and his assistant that discoverd you DNA also holds you ancester's past and that is why 
 they need desmond. One of Desmond's ancesters is a famous assassin. You play the assassin and the 
 main idea of the game it is to rid the holy land of nine templar lords. Anyway enough of what the 
 game is about and move on to gameplay shall we.
  
  Weapons and Areas: The weapons that you start out with, then lose, and then reobtain throughtout 
 the story (regardless of the intro) are the hidden blade, sword, fist and short blade with (limited) 
 throwing knives. The Buildings, lighting, shadows, and reactions of the public and guards in this 
 game are so realistic they'll make you think you really in the game. In every area, city, kingdom, 
 which ever you prefer to call it, you are free to move about anywere unless its covered buy a blueish 
 weird lookin cloud and I mean anywere. Any building, tower, gate, ship, you can climb all over 
 almost anything to get anywere. speaking of climbing, you can climb to the top of specific tower 
 to get a birds' eye view which is when your supposed to syncronize to erase a surtaint amount of 
 blurines on th map. To get around in the area ,other than climbing, you can walk, blend (for scholars) , 
 run, sprint, or jump over obsticles on the street or on the roof tops. Out side every area there 
 are usually horses to get around better.
  
  Guards and Missions: Guards are easy in the begining but as you get more know throughout the game 
 the harder they get. What I like to do is jump down on them and put the hidden blade into the back 
 of their skulls. I know it sounds discusting but it looks cool when you do it. Throughout the different 
 areas in the game you can save citizens from thuggs, listen in on a conversation some guys are 
 having for your investigation on the nine templar lords, pickpocket thuggs, and beating the $h! t 
 out of tamplars for info.
  
  HINT!!!!: In one of the last areas, the docks, BEWARE of druken morons and mentally ill people!! 
 They will shove you into the water in which will kill you which is stupid. ALSO!!: Beware of drunken 
 morons and mentally ill people in general and poor people which are just annoiing.
  
  Thank you for reading this and I hope I convinsted you to play this game if you havent already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splendormk7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  none of us has played a game like this before.. in the beginning i wasn't that into it.. and then 
 started to discover actions which are really cool to me . A game which deserves to be on next generation 
 system.. every move in the game is so charismatic whatever he does it seems so cool Altair please 
 visit my country too .there are some men who must be eliminated ASAP. otherwise i'll take them 
 out for you. but there is an assassin like you., no one should take your place ... well done. ---- 
 --- -- -- ----- ------ -- ---- ------- ---- ----- ------- ------- --- -------- ----- ----- ---- 
 ------- ------- ------ ---- ----- ---- ------ --- ---- ----- -- --------- ----- ---- ---- ----- 
 ---- ---- --- --- -- --- ------- ---- --- ----- ---- --- --- ----- ------ ------ ------- ---- ----- 
 ------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Visuals, AC's visuals a beautiful on many diffrent levels, from charecters design to the landscapes, 
 and city streets alond with their heights. Also, the graphics during the fighting sequences are 
 well done depicting the brutallity and beauty behind Altiars craft. 
  
  Story, althought so say the story is odd and doesn't make sense, it pushes the envelope by defying 
 the popular fads within video game story telling, such as the apacolyptic, fanatasy, and war genre's 
 that are so popular today. AC is also able to blend this story of the struggle for the Holy land 
 with a new concepts, which i will not discolse for they are spoilers. The ending people claim is 
 poor but its a cliff hanger leaving openings for other games.
  
  Gameplay, the thing that drags this game down is its repetitive gameplay, the developers claim 
 its an old school gta type, which wouldn't be saying much due that games repetiveness, but this 
 game manages to surpasse GTA in this manner. In AC all hits, or leaders you take out have to be 
 done in bassically the same manner, despite the setting of. Firt you encounter his gaurds take 
 them out, but in the end all hits must be finished with your hidden blade, leaving no room for 
 player creativity in painting there enemies demise. Along with the main plot you must sneak into 
 each city before to engage these targets, and the only way of really sneaking in is blending in 
 with the scholars, and thats the only way, 90% of the time, u can also choose to fight your way 
 in. Once in the city you can do really only two other missions. First being helping the local citizens, 
 all citzens in distress are basically in the same perdicment, three or four gaurds are harrassing 
 them, and when u defeat them, you are rewarded with extra health. There are also fellow assasin 
 contact which u help in order to gain info on ur target, and its always the same, your fellow assassin 
 either has people hunting him down, which he wants u to dispact, or race through the city collecting 
 flags. There are other means to maintain information such as following a particular person and 
 having to beat it out of them or pick pocket them, which arent particullarly hard. The really only 
 satisfying part of the game play is ridding the horse between cities which is kinda fun, and fighting 
 large groups of soldiers where u can showcase your combat, by either using your sword or throwing 
 knives. The throwing knives are cool but the down side is they make fighting really easy because 
 u dont have to aim, all shots are one hit kills.
  
  The final verdict is that this game had incredible potential, great story, incredible graphics, 
 but these are brought down by the repetitive gameplay. If only their were more varations in side 
 missions, and the ability to execute the Hits in diffrent ways. This game desrves a solid 7.5, 
 i recomened it because the sequal could be done incredibly well
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalPrince
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games to come out for the XBOX 360, it has beautiful graphics and is presented 
 magnificently. 
  
  The game takes place in 1191 and follows the hero Altair during the crusades where he comes across 
 Saracens, Teutonic Knights, Knights of Saint John (Knights Hospitaller) and Knights Templar. The 
 game is loosely based upon historical figures and event, though is very much fictional in that 
 there is no evidence to support Altair's existence. The game's enigmatic and sometimes sharp-tongued 
 character is wonderfully capable of surviving and it is often quite hard for him to die, you may 
 end up dying from falls more often than being killed by foes, but even then that is quite hard 
 to do unless you are actively seeking it, thanks to Altair's amazing Leap of Faith ability.
  
  As the title states - you are an assassin. Possessing limited but varied weaponry you wreak 
 havoc upon an ancient populace's scheming leaders.
  
  The game is fun to play at the beginning and you will find it hard to put the controller down for 
 the first hour or so. However after completing a couple of missions and embark on the third you 
 will begin to realise that all the techniques you have previously employed to "solve" a mission 
 and finally find your target, are pretty much, the same. Naturally the game loses its appeal and 
 novelty quite quickly due to the repetitiveness of the levels. You travel between 3 cities which 
 offer a variety of architecture and townspeople, however that does little to really add new flavour 
 to a stale, persistently similar gameplay. The game becomes less repetitive in the last 2 missions 
 (levels) of the game, which is a shame as they are the most exciting.
  
  The story is a compelling one of Betrayal, self-improvement which entwines along an inevitable 
 path to a secret truth revealed by an ancestor from long ago.
  
  The game is very easy - there is unfortunately only one difficulty mode and the fighting becomes 
 very easy to master once the counter ability is learnt, leaving Altair capeable of decimating an 
 entire town's guard if he were so inclined, though they do keep coming so it would not seem like 
 he is getting anywhere in such a quest.
  
  
  [ May be considered to be a SPOILER: Brief Weapon Descriptions ]
  
  Altair has 3 main weapons 
 and a 2 minor, or secondary, weapons. His main weapon is of course his stealthy hidden blade which 
 protrudes from beneath his palm and plants itself into a victims flesh to devastating effect, however 
 it is not useable in a combat situation except to counter. The protagonist's main melee fighting 
 weapon is his long sword which is arguably the best weapon he has to hand (no pun intended) . His 
 third main weapon is his dagger which is a fast and quite deadly weapon. The 2 remaining secondary 
 or minor weapons are throwing knives and his fists neither of which can counter melee attacks. 
 It is also worthwhile to note that Altair is incapable of blocking or deflecting projectiles which 
 can be very dangerous if he does not take out archers before attempting a large scale confrontation.
 
  
  
  [ END OF SPOILER ]
  
  Despite the mentioned gameplay flaws, the game flows fantastically and should provide a good few 
 hours of fun and boasting an innovative fighting and interaction system which is truly deserving 
 of the 'next-gen' title, however one should point out that re-playability is not the game's strong 
 point.
  
  It is definitely a game worth playing, one which every gamer should play, as it has arguably gone 
 down in history alongside other great titles such as Gears of War and Bioshock.
  
  8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcjunky25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has formidable graphics and environments that take you back to Jerusalem in the 
 era of the Crusades. The maps are huge and sometimes the views are quite breathtaking for a videogame.
 
  
  The innovative combat system keeps you hooked for quite a while, as you discover fresh ways of 
 disposing your victims. I enjoyed the fighting so much that I would recommend this game on the 
 combat alone.
  
  The sound is great. The voice acting is good, and the environmental ambiance is wonderful.
  
 
  The game is quite long, which normally is good, but in the case of AC this hurts the game because 
 the missions are so repetitive. You basically do the same things over and over again. To get to 
 the end of the game seems more like an endurance test than fun. And when you do finish.... you'll 
 never want to do those missions ever again.
  
  The game is so well made that the repetition can be easily over looked for an authentic video game 
 experience. I recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one my favorite games to play on Xbox. Who doesn't like to keep playing as a 
 assassin and can kill anyone he wants in cool counter moves and throwing knives? In the game you 
 go around and try to get back your respect of an assassin after disobeying your master. You are 
 sent to kill 8 or 9 main targets who all are pretty easy and if you like games for achievements, 
 you'll get about 700 if you beat the story. The story line is a little unrealistic (duh? who cares?) 
 and makes it all the more fun when you transform into your ancestor and kill people. There are 
 so many twists in this game its kinda hard to understand, but fun to try to keep up.
  
  The Bad: When you are at synchronization spots and you are about to press Y you accidentally press 
 up or something and fall off the building and die and start all over. When you have to fight tons 
 of guards when you do not feel like it and they keep coming and it is aggravating when you cannot 
 find a hiding spot. When you are going to a new spot on the horse like Jerusalem and you cannot 
 find the place because the map sucks because it tells you to go forward and then there is a giant 
 mountain in front of you. 
  
  The good: The rest of the game. The Gameplay. The weapons. The achievements. The music. The upgrades. 
 The best part of the game is the counter attacks when you regain them back and you can do tons 
 of counters with 3 of your weapons. your short blade, your sword, and you little assassination 
 thing between your finger.
  
  The game would probaly get a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokay411
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed for the Xbox 360 is definitely a unique game. It has a great concept behind it, 
 the gameplay is excellent, and the level design is absolutely gorgeous. 
  
  The graphics in this game are so far out of the league of the majority of most other titles that 
 it's staggering. Altair and the world around is so detailed and photorealistic the game is worth 
 buying for that reason alone.
  
  The music in this game is also amazing, it is choreographed very well, and fits the game. As the 
 action gets hot, the music picks up and makes it that much more awesome. 
  
  But where this gem takes a wrong turn is that the general structure of the game is very very repetitive.
 
  
  Enter area, Do six investigations, Climb 10-ish buildings, Save 10-ish villagers. Repeat 9 times.
 
  
  The bests parts of the game are the very beginning, whenever you are about to assassinate a main 
 target and then escape, and the very end of the game. If the rest of the game had the same edge-of-your-seat 
 action as those parts did, this game would be hands-down one of the best games I've ever played.
 
  
  The only other problem I had with the game was the perpetual guard fights. Maybe I just tend to 
 get in a lot of trouble, but whatever the case, sometimes I just wished Altair would just change 
 his super-suspicious clothing, haha.
  
  Other than the problems, the game is amazing, and is a must own for the Xbox 360. So quit reading 
 now and buy it. I mean it. So here's to hoping that Assassin's Creed 2 fixes the structure problem! 
 :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  If you were to ask me to describe Assasin's Creed in one word, I would slap you for being so stupid. 
 Why? You can't. You can't describe this truely amazing game in one word. 
  
  Let's start with the story... uh.. um... I don't want to tell the sci-fi part of it (it's a surprise 
 for you!) so let's describe the medival part of it. You are a man named Altair living during the 
 time of the crusades. Altair, obviously, is an assasin. You start the game during a mission where 
 you must recover an artifact from a cavern. Upon finding the artifact, you meet a templar (the main 
 enemies of the game) who taunts you in such a way that your character attacks him. The templar 
 throws your character out of the way and out of the cavern, where a cave-in blocks you out.
  
  Upon exiting the cave, you realise that your town is being ravaged by the templars. I don't 
 want to go much further into this so I'll keep this brief. You return to your "base" and meet up 
 with your master. You then drive the templars out of the village. You then are marked a traitor 
 for some actions you have done during the mission in the cave and are demoted in rank to practically 
 nothing. Your master then tells you that you have to kill 9 corrupt men to bring peace to 3 cities. 
 By doing this you will get your rank restored. So you set off to do just that.
  
  The gameplay in these cities are great. Upon killing a target, you usually have to break into the 
 facility protecting them. You could take many approaches to this, climbing walls, distracting guards, 
 or just killing guards can work too. There are a lot of commands, and sometimes it can seem overwhelming, 
 but eventually you will get the controls down and will be having some serious fun. Nothing is more 
 satisfying than throwing a guard off a roof, or killing someone with a blade they can't visibly 
 see.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the music. The soundtrack is moving and really sets a mood 
 for the situation you're in. I can't tell you how many times I felt uplifted by the driving music 
 in the game.
  
  The graphics are beautiful down to the last leaf on a tree or the last drop of blood on the ground. 
 It's truely astounding how great the game looks.
  
  The story is pretty good, but not amazing. Actually, at times it leaves you hanging (sequel???) . 
 
  
  There are many ways to assasinate each person, which makes for TONS of replay value.
  
  On a final note: buy this game for the gameplay. Not the story. The story is average but the 
 gameplay is simply amazing. 
  
  --Score --
  Graphics: 8
  Music: 10
  Tilt: 8
  Gameplay: 10
  Story: 8
  Overall: 9.7 (Not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crudmanIV
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  This was the first thing that came with my 360 and I was blown away by the quality of the graphics 
 and gameplay. I sat down for about 6 hours just having funriding with horses and killing.
  The fighting is cool though and the map is just plain friekin huge. Like I mean there are five 
 cities and each is about the size los venturas (san andreas) . In these cities there is some great 
 free runnin' action which is really fun.
  learly the best point in this game was the story. It took me about 10 hours or more and I was totally 
 entranced the whole way through. 
  The only negative thing I can say about the game is that after you finish the story (which has 
 a strangely weak ending) there is basically no fun in trying to play the game again. Like you can 
 go to any mission in the game to replay but you have to ride all the way to the city after listening 
 to the really long cutscenes (which were great the first time) and when you finally do the mission 
 you might just mess it up like last time.
  On the same note, the missions don't quite have that Hitmanesque freedom quality which I was looking 
 for. You go into the mission trying to be a sneaky assasin but a cutscene causes the guards to 
 see you so you can't do it right. I found this to really detract from my enjoyement of this game.
 
  SERIOUSLY, BUY THIS GAME OR YOU WONTHAVE A COMPLETE COLLECTION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  I played Assassins Creed at a friends the day it was released and the hour i was there i enjoyed 
 what i saw and played of AC. So i went out and bought my own copy right away, and boy was that 
 a mistake. 
  
  First ill start off with the positive things the game does. First off the graphics are breathtaking, 
 really well done and a real joy to check out the first time. The setting is also very well done, 
 with alot of characters around.
  
  Now for the not so good things about AC.
  The story is terrible and a real dissapointment in my opinion. Another bad thing about the game 
 is the shallow variety in the missions, they all basically play out the same way. They really could 
 have given alot more variety into the missions as far as gameplay and variety of the actual things 
 you do would have helped alot. There are also some annoying things like bums getting in your way 
 and tossing you around. I also got stuck in a few spots while playing this game, which was a pain.
 
  
  It was very fun for a good few hours, and the graphics are very good, but the horrible story, no 
 variety in the missions or gameplay and ohh yeah, did i mention the ridicolous story?
  
  Save your money and DONT BUY THIS GAME. Its a rental at best, how gamespot gave this game a 9/10 
 and games like Lost Odyssey, infinite Undisocvery, Mass Effect, Too Human adn The Witcher alot 
 lower really blows my mind.
  Rent it for a weekend and youll see all you need to.
  
  Some great ideas overall and i hope they can add to this game for a sequel, but just to many shortcomings 
 to reccomend buying this game. Out of 35+ xbox 360 games i own, this is one of the most dissapointing, 
 and one of the only two i wish i didnt buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpj1000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Controls were awesome, combat systems were awesome, graphics FAbULOUS, but AI not so awesome but 
 it was okay, story awesome, a must have for xbox 360 owner! After goofing around, going to most 
 side-missions and stuff, I beat this game in about 15 hours. For the first 8 hours, it was GREAT! 
 Next few hours, it was kinda getting repetitive... but the last 3-4 hours... it was truly amazing! 
 Well, I really hope Assassin's Creed 2 comes out pretty soon. Can't wait for Assassin's Creed 2...!! 
 Desmond's and Altair's voice acting was wonderful, in sync, and the story was... phenomenal. For 
 $30, this game is a must buy, and even it was $60, still a great buy. Beat the game in about 5 
 days, and I am proud to say that the 5 days I've played was a great one. One thing... What if Assassin's 
 Creed 2 is multiplayer? that would be awesome. (I've heard Fable II was co-op multiplayer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupidd55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Although Assassin's Creed has gotten plenty of well-deserved praise, this reviewer has got a bone 
 to pick with Ubisoft Montreal's hit of '07.
  
  True, the game is very exciting at points: plummeting hundreds of feat down tall buildings into 
 piles of hay, stabbing guards in the throat with your hidden blade and slapping around lepers, 
 but is it enough?
  
  The game follows the ancestor of the lead character Desmond Miles, Altar ibn La-Ahad. Altair is 
 the character you control and slay with and it is he whom you complete the game. As Altair, you 
 are a high-ranking member of the Assassin's Guild, Hashshashin, until the first mission causes 
 you to lose both your status and title.
  
  Ruining the story is not what I intend, however; I intend to cover the highs and lows of the game 
 as a whole, beginning with its high points.
  
  The combat system in Assassin's Creed was truly well-designed. Not only can you create combo kills 
 to quickly dispatch your foes using a few well-timed strikes, you can counter your opponent's strikes 
 to finish them just as fast.
  
  After combat, you must become inconspicuous again before you can continue on your merry way. For 
 example, while being chased through town after an assassination, or saving a civilian from certain 
 death, you can leap through merchant stands, blend in with groups of scholars, or hide in rooftop 
 huts, among other things. 
  
  The freedom in this game is not as great as in games like GTA or Crackdown, for killing civilians 
 causes you to lose health, or, synchronization. Not to worry, however; there are plenty of guards 
 for you to murder at your leisure. Also, you can choose to explore the connector between cities, 
 Kingdom, which has a fair amount of things for you to do and see.
  
  The music and sound effects couldn't have been better for this type of game and although many of 
 the voice acting is the same lines over and over, it all sounds authentic. Gently pushing through 
 crowds of people during a hot day in Jerusalem actually feels like gently pushing through crowds 
 of people during a hot day in Jerusalem. Especially with a great sound system, this game can put 
 you right in the action.
  
  Story is something I normally look for especially, as a good or bad campaign can make or break 
 a game. That's a good thing for Assassin's Creed, because it does boast quite a compelling campaign. 
 The game keeps you questioning your actions, much like Altair does himself and the ending can be 
 quite a surprise. 
  
  And now for the bad.
  
  In terms of re-playability, Assassin's Creed is very lacking. There is nothing you can get by replaying 
 the game after completion, unless you did not succeed in getting all the achievements the first 
 time around, which, except for one, can easily be done. Aside from the achievements being easy 
 to get, they are not very enjoyable to get; I did not buy a game where I play as an assassin to 
 collect flags or talk to girls.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a complete and utter let down when it comes to the missions. They are all basically 
 the same thing: save citizens, jump off buildings, get information, kill the bad guy. Rinse, repeat. 
 It's not like you have great selection in where you do all of this either; it all takes place in 
 either Damascus, Jerusalem or Acre. To add more to the tedium, Damascus and Jerusalem are frighteningly 
 similar in appearance. Sure you may get to explore Kingdom, but that grows tiresome quickly and 
 frankly, this game could do without the city of Masyaf. 
  
  So, you ask, if Assassin's Creed has such terrible re-playability and the first play through is 
 all the same anyway, why am I giving it a 7.5? Because, reader, the fun aspects in this game really 
 know how to keep you going. Yea, you might be doing the same thing over and over, but that same 
 thing just happens to be a barrel of monkeys. I know I will never play through this game again, 
 but the one time I did do it, I had a great time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overseer677
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  OK, first thing first, i HATED the stroy when i first got it. i got this chpea thinking it will 
 be a great history trip with killing. but instead i got bullcrap story line that took half an hour 
 to get past, u spend half your time looking at white screens and the other half watching as white 
 'glitchs' pass your screen.
  
  It annoys me alot, even much so that i just stopped playing it for about a month. then got back 
 into it again when desiding what to trade in when money is thin. and i got into it and the gameplay 
 itself is really good. comabt is annoying becuase its not action, just rythem based and the idea 
 that you can jump up almost anything is relly good. then you will get fustrated when your character 
 randomly jumps off and pretty much kills himself when u so much as blow on the thumpstick when 
 hes climbing up.
  
  So, basicly if u can get past the stupid story, dodgey controls and boring fighting that a bit 
 like playing guitar hero on easy, the gameplay and ideas will have you playing till the end, as 
 i tryed to do, when i can find the time between halo 3 with friends, being sociable and PORN!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slay3r7023
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is kind of intimidating right when you start to play it, all of the things that 
 you know you can do but cant figure out how to do all of them yet.
  
  
  After learning how to use most of the features in the game it seams very good. The game is pretty 
 good. The graphics are amaxing, the animations are seemless, and the crowd reacts accordingly to 
 the movements that you are making around them. If you are running around people are going to start 
 wondering what you are doing. If you are climbing up walls than the people will start to say things 
 about you being very childish and after a while, they will start to throw rocks at you. It was 
 very, very cool that you can interact with anything that sticks out more than like three inches 
 in the game world.
  
  
  There are multiple ways to kill your opponents in the game. You can actually get into a nice big 
 fight, which is fun but can cause you to die. You can use the hidden blade, which i cant lie is 
 pretty badass. The thing that really grabs my attention though is the counter attacks. The movement 
 is almost always perfect and the way that the opponents are killed is just very interesting and 
 very fun to watch and do.
  
  
  Of course there are some down-sides to the game. Every now and then when you kill a guard on top 
 of a building and he is hagning off of the edge he just kind of hovers off the edge untill the 
 animation of the kill is over, but that is easily forgivable. The biggest part of this game that 
 i didnt like is how repetative the game gets. It all consists of going to a town, doing about three 
 side missions, doing the main assassination, than going back to your master and telling him what 
 you have done, than finallt you get to do it all over again.
  
  
  Pretty much Assassin's Creed is a very fun game, but it gets repetative after awhile, luckily what 
 the game is repeating is pretty fun, and truly is the first game i have played that really felt 
 "Next Gen". Good game, and Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawk218
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game with a great story and addictive gameplay, then this game is for you. 
 However, if you like multiplayer games dont buy. While i was playing this game's campaign i had 
 loads of fun from quietly sticking a blade in the back of someone's neck to intense sword fights. 
 The story is inventive and engaging so you wont fall asleep while playing. There is just one major 
 flaw in this game. After you beat the campaign then what? No multiplayer at all and while there 
 are side missions you can do it doesnt have anything to do with the story so you will fall asleep.
 
  SUMMARY: Extremely fun while it lasts but after that you will need to buy something else. (that 
 is the end of the review this next stuff is just to make it long enough to be  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nDtImEr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was an ambitious game. It is pretty good, but could have and probably should have 
 been great.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay is rather fun and exciting. I thought it would be more running away from guards, but 
 for me I usually just killed them. I just about mastered the combat system, so there was no reason 
 for me to run from a fight. Once you kill all of the guards in an area you lose your 'wanted' level 
 (or whatever it's called) . The combat system is surprisingly good, but a little too easy to get 
 good at. The game could have used difficulty settings, which it lacks. For those of you that don't 
 master the combat system, you will be in for it at the end of the game, where it is all combat, 
 no running or sneaking.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Most of the voice acting is good, although the main character sounds like an American. It didn't 
 bother me too much, but imagine how it would be for a British person. A random American as the 
 main character. I was also unimpressed with the background sounds, although the fighting noises 
 were alright.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Assassin's Creed is a pretty game, and the world it creates is one of my favorite. I like going 
 through Jerusalem a thousands times more than I do Liberty City. Animations are good, but there 
 aren't a ton, and you see them over and over in combat.
  
  Longevity: 6/10
  Unfortunately the game is a short one, with little reason to play through it again. Long, boring 
 cutscenes that have little value will make you angry as you try to go through the game again. You 
 can probably beat fairly easily in under ten hours if you don't do all of the exciting side quests 
 like rescuing citizens (the same scenario EVERY time) , collecting flags (oh boy..) , and climbing 
 to the tops of buildings to scan the city (by the way, every one of these buildings has a haystack 
 at the bottom which you can dive in from one hundred feet unharmed) .
  
  The game could have been great, but it was hindered by repetitive gameplay, an overdone, rather 
 easy to predict, and ridiculous story, and a short one at that. The story seems interesting, but 
 it makes no sense at times. Why can't the main character go straight to his final memory that the 
 scientists want? Who knows... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sence22
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Nice game, It takes time but you will never get bored.
  But the flag achievements takes forever...
  A very nice game, I can play it over and over again.
 
  The story is very good and some good grapichs and the control mode is easy and nice.
  Nice game, It takes time but you will never get bored.
  But the flag achievements takes forever...
 
  A very nice game, I can play it over and over again.
  The story is very good and some good grapichs and the control mode is easy and nice.
  Nice game, 
 It takes time but you will never get bored.
  But the flag achievements takes forever...
  A very nice game, I can play it over and over again.
  The story is very good and some good grapichs 
 and the control mode is easy and nice.
  Nice game, It takes time but you will never get bored.
  But the flag achievements takes forever...
 
  A very nice game, I can play it over and over again.
  The story is very good and some good grapichs and the control mode is easy and nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabilla
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  This game is beautiful, unique and absolutely amazing. It features a good storyline, breathtaking 
 graphics and a variety of daring quests to undertake.
  
  I absolutely love this game. Throughout playing the game I an transfixed on the stunning graphics 
 that it brings out. From riding through the desert to climbing the highest building it makes you 
 feel like you are just not watching a film but playing one.
  
  The game features mini-side missions like collecting a certain amount of flags from each the the 
 cities and climbing the highest buildings to take in the amazing view (and from there jump all 
 the way down into a cart of hay) it gives. These missions are fairly easy and are each worth achievements 
 but they do take a lot of time to complete espically the flag collecting. That takes ages to do 
 espically if you don't know where all the flags are and therefore it becomes boring and pointless. 
 But if you are determined to collect them all and get the all important achievements then I would 
 suggest getting the Assassin's Creed game guide.
  
  The main missions for Assassin's Creed require you to go into stealth mode but you can choose whether 
 to assassinate the target stealthy or just jump right into the action. All missions have the same 
 goal and that is to assassinate a target. You may think that this could get boring doing the same 
 thing over and over but each assassination has its own little story and is therefore different 
 all the time. (You will know what I mean when you play it)
  
  In my opinion I don't feel that there are many flaws in this game. There is one though that I feel 
 is a bit of a dissapointment and that is the ending to the game. But the ending is only the beginning. 
 From what I hear though there is going to be an Assassin's Creed 2 which I am really looking foward 
 to!
  
  Overall I feel that this is a fantastic game and i'm sure the second one is going to be even better! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultradude2345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is without a doubt a great leap forward in gaming, but several problems hold it 
 back.
  
  In the game you play as Altiar, an assassin during the Third Crusade. Throughout the main storyline 
 you must assassinate 9 targets who are bringing chaos to the Holy Land. These targets range from 
 a slave trader to a corrupt merchant king. The game does a decent job in getting you into the story. 
 The storyline is quite short with an average player able to beat the game in 8-10 hours. Collectables 
 and achievements can keep you going for a bit longer but after beating the game there's not much 
 left. No difficulty settings prevent any replay value. 
  
  Assassin's Creed excels in gameplay and visuals. Altiar can climb nearly any building at any given 
 time. The animation is fluid and life like as well. When forced to defend himself Altiar has a 
 small array of classic but deadly weapons. The primary weapon is a longsword which works great 
 for any occasion. He also has a short sword which is used for fending off multiple foes at one 
 time. The signature weapon is a hidden blade which can kill instantly but requires a learning curve 
 to master in open combat. Altiar also has throwing knives which are useful at long distance.
  
  The visuals are definitely Assassin's Creed's greatest highlight. All 3 of the game's very 
 large cities are beautiful and it really captures the atmosphere. Even things like clouds blocking 
 out the sun are included. This said, you will need a beefy computer to enjoy the graphics at PS3 
 and Xbox level.
  
  Before doing an assassination on one of the 9 targets you have to complete 1 to 3 missions in the 
 city to get information. These missions range from eavesdropping to interrogation and at first 
 are pretty cool. Unfortunately, you have to do the same types of missions for all 9 of the targets. 
 It can get repetitive, tedious, and somewhat boring. 
  
  Assassin's Creed also suffers from poor AI. You can murder someone with the hidden blade in plain 
 sight of civilians and guards and stand right by the corpse while guards shout "Who could've done 
 this?". The AI also brings combat to a slow halt. When executing a finishing move guards will just 
 stand there and watch as each and everyone of their comrades are slain. When being ganged up on 
 by multiple opponents they will attack one at a time making it slow and too easy.
  
  Voice acting is great except Altiar who falls a little behind everyone else with an American accent. 
 Saracen guards have authentic accents and even speak Arabic at times. Same goes to Crusader guards 
 who are mostly French with a few Germans here and there. Citizens will comment on your climbing 
 or when they see you murder. It really captures you in the atmosphere.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a great game. If you can get past the repetition, AI, and somewhat 
 weak story you can really have fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacedelli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed story will have you intrigued to the very end of the game, where you'll realize 
 that your journey is only begging, the story takes place in a distant future where researchers 
 dig into the "gene memory" of this Myers guy, whose ancestors were part of a middle east assassins 
 clan, using an apparatus called "animus", in the begging of the game you play Altair, the top gun 
 of that clan, who is overly arrogant, and so breaking the rules of the creed, then he is nearly 
 executed and starts his learning all over, by choice of the creed master, you go and get leads 
 on the holy grail, that was lost due to your actions, this leading to a great story of treason, 
 loyalty and greed.
  Definitely Ubisoft excels in adventure games, Assasin's creed being the proof of it, the game has 
 a free run-like maneuver system wich lets you climb onto buildings, run on rooftops, amongst other 
 things, you can see little fragments form POP fighting system integrated into the game, incluiding 
 a assasination system which is really good, the game becomes quite repetitive while you play it. 
 
  Assassin's Creed is a Sci-Fi Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmasta42
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is probably one of the top five games of 2007, not only because of the storyline 
 but also because of the stunning visuals... Although it has an abrupt ending with no real resolution, 
 the storyline up to that point is intriguing and makes you want to keep playing it all the way 
 to completion... The missions get a little repetative but not enough to be annoying - and they 
 are also just the right difficuulty (if you fail the first time, it doesnt set you too far back) . 
 The cities are artfully done, and the people in them are surprisingly interactive given how many 
 there are... The fights seem almost cinematic, which gives it an interesting feel, but the controls 
 are never laggy or complex... As well, there are enough extras to be done (flags and templars) 
 that it remains interesting even after youve beaten it... All in all a great game -- a must have 
 for any xbox 360 owner... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikerbuie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Where is the biggest group of guards I can find? after I played a couple of level and regained 
 some equipment back I cant stop picking fights with those guards! and I love the ones that walk 
 in big groups. Over all the game was great, but their was still room for improvement. Such as a 
 little more side missions of some sort that couldn't hurt. The control for the game was great, 
 easy to move around the level without getting caught up on objects, really loved the new ability 
 as Spider Man. Especially when you drop down from forty foot to send a sword threw some guards 
 head. I also liked the different level of guards. Although me personally I did not care to much 
 for all that flag finding. I focused on the main story, and I think thats where the the game could 
 have been more developed. If I was part of the developers I would have made the game still interesting 
 after the main story line was finished. I accomplished every mission (except flags) while I was 
 in each city. So once I beat the game yea I can go back to those cities to beat up guards..... but 
 that does get old after you kill so many thousands of them. I dont mean to give the game to much 
 criticism because it was a great game, I am just trying to nudge some ideas in for the next one.... 
 Make more side missions. ThAnkS, Your CRITIC BIKER-BUIE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EQuinn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  i had fun playing assassin's creed for a little while but then i realized: I'm doing the same thing 
 over and over. The story was great and i enjoyed being in the mid-evil times and in the present 
 but every assassination is the same. Climb up a few buildings, pickpocket some people and then 
 kill a major Templar. Also, the crazy people and the drunks are very annoying. You should be able 
 to grab and push them without penalty because they make getting in some area's impossible. I've 
 gotten stuck trying to get into a group of scholars for hours just because a crazy person kept 
 blowing my cover. Also, I felt that the city guard was too aware. The eye in the left corner was 
 always yellow, even if i was blending into the crowd or silently pushing my way through. i didn't 
 understand why i was being watched for just walking through the crow. Overall, the challenges do 
 get boring after doing them time after time. It was fun just don't play it to much because you 
 will regret it. All in all the game was fun but it needs to add new challenges and harder assassinations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matnatz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is quite old now so my review probably won't be viewed by many people (if at all) 
 but I am simply doing this for the sake of practice and enjoyment.
  
  Firstly in Assassins Creed you play as Altar a master assassin during the third crusade in 1191 
 AD. Well actually it's set in the near future and the sections of the game set in the crusades 
 are just a simulation that your near future character is playing through using a machine called 
 the Animus. The only reason I can think of for Ubisoft to tack on this idiotic sci-fi sub plot 
 is to get some of the sillier nerds all riled up. Apart from that very minor spoiler I will leave 
 you to find out the rest of story by playing the game (or just read it off wikipedia, but who am 
 I to tell you what to do I'm not god) .
  
  The presentation of Assassins creed is by far its best point, the game looks wonderful. When you 
 climb to the view points and pan your camera around the city it is actually quite mesmerising. 
 The lighting effects are also extremely good, and the strange blue tint everything has in acre 
 practically had me foaming at the mouth with artistic wonderment. There is no denying that Assassins 
 Creed is probably the best looking game I've played so far on the xbox 360. The animations in the 
 game are also exetremely good, but that goes without saying since this game is made by some of 
 the people who worked on Prince of Persia. The sound is top-notch especially the crunching noise 
 it makes when your fist comes into contact with an annoying beggar woman's face, and trust me when 
 you have played the game you will feel like doing this quite often. 
  
  The game-play itself is very impressive, you can swing on flag poles, shimmy along edges and most 
 impressive of all you can climb on anything that looks climbable from window ledges to decorative 
 masonry around mosques. The 3 massive cities in the game (Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus) are all 
 completely explorable. They are full of gaurds, beggars, lepers and thugs who all behave uniquely. 
 Not to mention they have thousands of citizens - rich and poor - who wander around going about 
 their day to day business. Jumping from rooftop to rooftop and racing across scaffold away from 
 a small army of city guard after completeing a sucessful assassination never seems to get old. 
 But it takes the thrill away when you realise that once the gaurds catch you, you can easily dispatch 
 large groups of them without even breaking a sweat. And the combat itself is essentially just button 
 mashing and it feels very underwhelming in a game where everything else (namely the jumping and 
 climbing) is of such a high caliber. And considering the last sections of the game consist mainly 
 of combat this is quite an anti-climax. Ubi-soft seem to be attempting to make a new genre or game 
 with assassins creed which they refer to as "Social stealth" in which you hide from gaurds in groups 
 of scholars and slowly and inconspicuously make your way to the rooftop above your target so you 
 can jump down and give him a nice sharp surprise with your blade. And after you've done this pretty 
 much the entire city is on alert. But once again you are encouraged to use the environment to your 
 advantage by useing large crowds of panicked citizens as a means to block pursuing guards. Although 
 one thing that did annoy me was that the lepers would use all of their strength to knock you off 
 your feet when you got close, but if a city guard walked past he wouldn't even blink.
  
  Assassins creed is around 10 hours long if you just progress through the missions required to finish 
 the game but if you want to get 100% completion it might take around 30hours. Despite being around 
 20hours long for the average gamer who'll do a fair bit of faffing around in the big open cities 
 about 80% of the main story line is spent gathering intelligence before the assassinations by pick-pocketing 
 and eaves dropping on various people around the city. And believe me when I say that this section 
 of the game is completely boring after the first few tries and it just feels like it was inserted 
 just to make the game last a bit longer. However the actual assassinations which these intelligence 
 gathering sections build up to are very very well done and genuinely fun.
  
  So overall Assassins Creed is worth a look, it's bogged down by unnecessary intelligence gathering 
 missions that are very repetitive. But apart from that the game is a very good and memorable romp 
 but don't expect much re-playability. 7.5 out of 10
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rutulno1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Jerusalem, 1911 AD, in the time of the Third Crusaders. The streets sparkle with action, but within 
 seconds you, the feared assassin (Altair) , will change all this.
  
  You play as a man called Altair living in a very futuristic world, and you have tried to forget 
 your past but someday a couple of people bring you to this machine called the Animus... that forces 
 you to reenact all your past days as an assassin... then the game begins.
  
  Personally i loved the way the creators of Assassin's Creed mingled history and science fiction 
 together. As a first impression, in the first hour or so, the graphics and the gameplay was all 
 i could think of for the couple of hours after switching the Xbox off. I got to say, the graphics 
 are intense... i have never seen so much dedication to graphics before - it would seem just like 
 you are watching a scene in a movie where the protagonist is walking through a very crowded area. 
 I know it's hard to say... but the graphics are even better than GoW and GTA IV. Even if you look 
 at a pot ona shelve or something you can see the same texture as you would with a real pot.
  
  At first you don't have many weapons and skills to fight and defend yourself but as the game 
 wears on, you increase dramatically with your skill - in the game with the swords and your skill 
 with the buttons on your controller. The storyline is also quite interesting because in each level 
 you can do a number of things to choose your personality in the game. You can be a pickpocket, 
 you can help helpless citizens, be violent and kill all the guards or be stealthy and try and avoid 
 them - or even you can do all of these. But each level as a certain assassination that the masters 
 give you and you have to find information throughout the level about this person... then kill him. 
 All this seems so interesting but finish a couple of levels and kill hundreds of guards the storyline 
 gets a little repetitive and boring... destroying the excitement of killing people.
  
  There is one thing in the game that I will never get tired of and that is while fighting off a 
 large group of guards. What I love doing is holding my dagger in defense and then pressing 'X' 
 to counter attack the guard. If you do that at a certain time, Altair will eliminate the guard 
 in a very smooth and swift way... and there are many smooth and swift ways. Then, when the dagger 
 goes through the body of the guard blood gushes out and increases the intensity of the graphics.
 
  
  The sound effects are also pretty impressive and exciting. The sound changes according to you status 
 in the game, if you are unnoticed the sound will be cool, but if you are being chased by a large 
 group of guards that music will change to something more drastic and fast. Then to loose that large 
 group of guards you will have to hide in a haystack or a little box thingy with curtains... if you 
 are hiding the music will change into a heart beat rhythm. Then again, it gets repetitive as you 
 go further into the game.
  
  At many points in the game, the map doesn't show you objective and what you have to do next then 
 it gets quite difficult to go on because the cities are really big. This gets really frustrating 
 and you feel like quitting... but then after hours of search you might be able to find your objective. 
 Also, the achievements are pretty hard to get.
  
  The cutscenes are also very cool and unique. They are unique because in the cutscenes of Assassin's 
 Creed you can move around and change the camera views when there is a "glitch" in the game. (People 
 who have played this game will know why I put "" around glitch) . 
  
  Lastly, my favorite thing about thing about this game is that you can climb up call building and 
 synchronize with the city. The way the game shows the city when you synchronize with it is beautiful 
 and very clever... i loved it. I also enjoyed climbing and jumping from building to building. Though 
 the climbing can get pretty annoying because you have to be perfectly in line with the thing you 
 are going to use next to climb with.
  
  Graphics = 9.5/10
  Storyline = 7/10
  Sound Effects = 8/10
  
  OVERALL = 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneManArmy92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  When I picked up Assassin's Creed, I was blown away. I always wanted an Assassin game with free 
 running and I love games with open towns. However, I personally think the story is interesting, 
 but cheesy. I would have been more satisfied just being an assassin, not some kid forced to uncover 
 some memories. Anyway, the game was amazing, but very short. The lack of ANY online play hinders 
 the game tremendously. The only way to prolong the great game is to find a ton of flags (does that 
 sound interesting? no.) or saving the citizen (which is a lot of fun to be the hero, but gets REALLY 
 repetitive) . I also felt that the people who needed to be assassinated were basically handed to 
 you on a silver plate and was way too easy to get away considering the guards get stumped on where 
 you are if you jump into a covered gazebo (are you kidding?) or if you jump into a crowd of monks 
 that look totally different than you. I just thought the AI could be a little better. Since the 
 game was repetitive, it was a thorn in the game's back, the story was interesting, but going through 
 the second time being even more repetitive isn't much incentive to play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed i was expecting to be fantastic but i was wrong very wrong what it actually turned 
 out to be was a frustrating repetitive pile of junk that had only small enjoyable moments through 
 the whole game.
  
  Single player
  
  The key is to assasinate certain people but even this is a joke because once you have stabbed them 
 they start speaking to you like there just having a rest and a minute later they die but anyway 
 thats just nitpicking let me really explain why i hate this game. The guards are always chasing 
 you its like you just cant have a break they constantly run after you even if you do nothing and 
 for some odd reason they can climb walls like altair and that brings me to the controls which are 
 rubbish you feel separated from the game because half the time altair has a mind of his own and 
 jumps what way he feels its so frustrating. Then onto the combat because when i came up against 
 lots of guards i became i even bigger hater of this game because the guards are just so hard to 
 kill and your constantly having to mash any button to fight back. But let me go onto the good points 
 well the graphics are stunning the lighting and textures are spot on and the game runs pretty smooth.
 
  
  PROS
  stunning graphics
  it can be fun being an assassin
  
  cons
  Clunky uninformative controls
  Guards that constantly attack make the game frustrating
  uninterestng 
 story with nothing work doing again
  Zero replay value
  
  Verdict
  Assassins creed has little to possibly resemble the 9/10 it recieved on GS its poor controls frustrating 
 gameplay and uninteresting story make it a rent at best and no where near as good as it looked. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people have told me that this game is an over rated game but in my opinion it's a must 
 have for the Xbox 360 or the PS3 either one. You play as a character called Desmond he was captured 
 by a scientist and the scientist's assistant so they could learn more about Desmond's ancestors. 
 They extract his memories from his DNA then they replay them as if it were Desmond.
  
  The graphics in the game look so good it's got real good detail in it and if you really pay attention 
 to your surroundings you'll notice they did a real fine job at it to. The voice acting was good 
 and so was the fighting system that it has. It's a lot of fun going around assassinating people 
 . But even after all that I've still beat it at least three times.
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is a really fun game and a must have but at the same time it might not 
 be a game that everyone will like. So at that maybe you should go and rent it first to see if you 
 like it. But if you're an action fan this game will be perfect for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greedom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed takes the game play somewhat like Prince of Persia but slows it down and immerses 
 you in a complex story line. Many played the game on it's release and claimed it was simply overamped 
 and overrated. Some may say so but I say it's a must have if you own an XBOX 360. 
  
  You start off as a top assassin sent on a mission to secure a treasure that a great enemy of the 
 guild is trying to acquire. Your character, Altiar is the best but also ignorant with his power 
 and breaks many of the rules of the guild during this mission causing the death of your friends 
 and I suppose you could say co-workers of a sorts. Upon returning to the guild you attempt to save 
 your reputation by fudging the truth a little bit only to find that one of your co-workers survived 
 the brutal slaying because of your actions and exposes you. Afterwords, you lose your rank and 
 weapons and must work to become a more honourable and wise person by completing a series of assassinations 
 before your rank will be restored. 
  
  There's also a second storyline which can be just as interesting if you can bare to listen to all 
 the talking. It turns out that Altiar is one of your ancient ancestors and you are a simple bar 
 tender. You're accessing Altiar's memories because you're related to him through blood and their 
 memories are in a part of your brain that you alone cannot access but with a special machine the 
 scientists holding you captive can find what Altiar was sent to retrieve. 
  
  The game's graphics are spectacular. Everything is quite detailed and your character is able to 
 climb over almost every ledge. This game is getting older now and it's still top of the line for 
 games on the 360. The game has very few glitches graphically and I was really impressed. In the 
 futuristic part of the game the graphics are also flawless but sort of boring, everything is different 
 shades of white and gray. 
  
  There's no music in Assassin's Creed. All the sounds you hear are sounds in an ancient city from 
 merchants trying to sell goods on the street, to guards chasing someone (usually you) down the 
 street or raving mad men in alleyways screaming at the top of their lungs. In the futuristic version 
 of the game the sounds again are quite bland. It's hard to hear when the scientists are talking 
 to you unless you have the camera angled just right and all there is to hear are your footsteps 
 in cold hallways and people talking.
  
  The gameplay itself is fantastic but sometimes frustrating. There are a lot of different controls 
 for Altiar which are somewhat complicated but run nicely once you get used to them. Some complications 
 include while running from guards or just at a quick pace, Altiar doesn't always jump to where 
 you want him to jump and will completely throw off your escape route, forcing you to improvise 
 and really just run like the wind or kill everyone chasing you. The gameplay in the futuristic 
 storyline less interesting as you can only walk and sleep with the occasional extra action added 
 to add some spice to the futuristic part of the storyline.
  
  The game is just all out fun to play. The weak parts in the game are very small and insignificant 
 to how much you'll enjoy the story or the assassination missions. My only concern is for people 
 with shorter attention spans will loath this game. It definitely takes a commitment to beat the 
 game because you have to really pay attention to everything the main characters say and it's easy 
 to forget what is going on if you decide to take a week off from playing the game. If you're a 
 hardcore gamer who doesn't mind sacrificing some action for an engrossing storyline. The replay 
 value is moderate, I can imagine playing it again but not more than 2 or 3 times. A must buy on 
 my list for hardcore gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpytheman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed released by the world famous Ubisoft Montreal back last year in November (2007) . 
 With most of the game set in the 12th century you'll spend your time running around chopping down 
 your templar enemies and scaling tall buildings with your amazingly strong fingertips.
  
  As the player you play as Desmond Miles (Subject #17) and his assassin ancestor Altair. Kidnapped 
 by the history long company Obstergo you remain locked up unknown people there they make you (Desmond) 
 use their Animus machine to look into hidden genetic memories to find out what Desmonds ancestor, 
 Altair found in 1191 AD.
  
  Top class, top of the range there is no better in my opinion. Gears of war is nothing compared 
 to the might of the graphics of Assassins Creed. Every little detail can be seen, trees and plants 
 swaying, dust blowing across the ground round in front of you and many many more.
  
  I do not think that the graphics of assassins creed could be improved on. My jaw dropped when i 
 saw them. As soon as i saw them i said "I want that game now" and went out to buy it.
  
  Best Game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  i borrowed this game from a friend and i'm glad i did. the game looked pretty good when it came 
 out, but i never really jump at getting games for 60 bucks a pop. so i played the game for about 
 an hour or two when i first got it. i was thinking 'man this game is actually really fun' then 
 you get deeper into the story line after playing for about 3 1/2 to 4 hours and realize 'wow this 
 is the same S*** over and over agian.'
  
  throughout the game you go looking for eagle points to sync' from go listen to converstation, interogate 
 people, and stuff like this to find and kill a certain person (there are 12 people i think) but 
 after you have killed the first two or three people its basically just the same thing, which is, 
 go to the guy to see who to kill, do 3 things to get to assassinate someone, go assassinate them. 
 go back, get another person to assassinate, do the same thing agian and agian and agian. did i 
 mention how stupid the fighting is in the game? i mean, its sort of cool for the first little bit 
 and then it just gets annoying to fight. and you get into fights for the stupidest reasons. if 
 your sprinting down the street, half the time you get into a fight with 3 or 4 people, FOR F**K*** 
 RUNNING!. There are another few glitchs in the game where you will be climbing up walls and your 
 sitting there like "grab onto the wall you f'n idiot' and your person just wont do it.
  
  so i think if they would have changed up the story, maybe did something different then the same 
 thing 12 times, this would have been a better game. i still would say its worth playing, but not 
 buying. you can deff. beat this game in the length of time you get to rent it, or just borrow it 
 from a friend like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktm1255
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I Haven't played that much so I cant go that in depth. Anyway the Graphics are some of the best 
 out there even though it's a year old. The gameplay is amazing yet the missions can repeat themselves 
 a bit but if you like this sort of game it wont bother you. The sound is really good also, it suits 
 the game perfect.
  
  However there are some bits that get annoying, like for me personally I didn't know what to do 
 next in the campaign, I had to refer to the gameguide on gamespot to know what to do. The beggers 
 get annoying after a while, they keep saying the same thing. When you travel between cities the 
 guards always try catch you so i suggest you jump off the horse to stop their whining. 
  
  There isn't any multiplayer as well, but i hope they do this in the next one which i cant wait 
 for.
  
  Thats about it for now. bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is set in 1191 during the Crusades, it basically Assassins vs The Templars. Where 
 you start is in a cave following the Templars after a short escape, you are strip of your all your 
 ranks and you have to work your way to the top, by killing the Templars helpers in Acre, Jerusalem 
 and Damascus, it extremely repetitive because you have to interrogate, steal, save citizens and 
 climb watch towers every single time before you have the right information to assassinate your 
 target. You assassinate 9 helpers of the Templars before you kill Robert de Sable Leader of the 
 Templars. Your character is an Ancestor to a character in 2007-8 where he is in the animus learning 
 about the assassins. The ending to Assassins Creed creates the beginning of Assassins Creed 2 which 
 is out in end of 2008 to 2009 area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phxsns1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game for $30, which I have to say, after playing the game, was a very good price. 
 This game is just good. I really wasn't impressed with it that much. You are playing really as 
 Desmond, who has been captured by a scientist and his assisstant so that they can learn more about 
 his ancestors. They are able to extract memories from his DNA so that they can be replay is if 
 it were him. In his memories you play as Altair, an assassin during the Third Crusade. The graphics 
 are beautiful, the fighting system was pretty good, the voice acting was okay, but the game gets 
 so repetitive because you find out that all you're gonna be doing is assassinating people again 
 and again for around 12 hours. There is absolutely no variety whatsoever. If you like action games, 
 this is a must play, bur otherwise, it's probably just worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This game rocked. The story in it is unbelievable and the gameplay and rich graphics and the world 
 are simply amazing. The lighting was probably the best part of it all. The game is not too difficult 
 but not too easy either. 
  
  I did not give it a 10 because it was not absolutely perfect. The game is somewhat limited to the 
 store. There is not much else to do like most other action adventure games nowadays. Usually you 
 will have a few side missions and side objectives to be done. The only thing I've found in this 
 game is the gathering of the flags which is a daunting and not that exciting task. It's fun at 
 first but after a while gets old.
  
  The rich environments and the AI (common people and enemies) makes it a very realistic and believable 
 game. It does not feel fake or anything. In that aspect you feel like you are in the game.
  
  The history behind the game is fascinating to me and has provoked me even more to want to learn 
 about the crusades. Of course this was a fictional story but the time frame and the cultures and 
 everything were very vibrant and real in this game.
  
  Overall a great game that I would recommend to anyone who loves a good action adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FilipinoSpartan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an amazing game, kudos to you, Ubisoft. The game looks wonderful, with very 
 well rendered cities. The gameplay is fun at first, as you climb all over buildings and get into 
 fights with the local guards, but as you play through the story, the fun fades in to mediocrity 
 as innovations, in general, stop coming out to refresh the game.
  
  Likewise, all the missions are very generic, with the player performing a certain number of cookie-cutter 
 investigations before going to a location to assassinate an important crusader or harsh Arab leader. 
 The assassinations themselves consist of long, unskippable cutscenes followed by either a short, 
 stealthy assassination or a flashy bout of sword combat with an army of guards as well as the target, 
 then another long, unskippable cutscene.
  
  Combat in the game is a fun method to create chaos, but, again, fails to continue to innovate. 
 Most players will have fun at first, but will eventually fall into a pattern of attacks that have 
 worked consistently for them.
  
  The overarching storyline can be quite confusing at times and seems to be pushing the limits of 
 belief, even by the standards of the videogame world.
  
  Aside from the missions, the player can attempt to find a ridiculous number of flags scattered 
 throughout the cities and world of the game, but this search is usually a boring experience from 
 the beginning, and, trust me, it doesn't get any more interesting.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a pretty good game, despite its flaws, but with some more work, 
 it could have become a game that would have lived up to ten times its hype. Hopefully Assassin's 
 Creed 2 will do the job for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master-kane
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed has a very deep imerssive story line and world, with an easy to play through story 
 which will not disappoint and hours of extra content such as finding Templar's and flags, although 
 the extras may not be your cup of tea, you dont have to do them so please don't let them push you 
 away from buying this great game. The story mode is long and fun and its a game that can just be 
 played through again and again without getting boring. There are many guides for this game such 
 as the ones here on gamespot and they can all come in handy to help you get through this game.
 
  Some achivments are easy to get and you should finish the game with around 500 gamerscore and 
 thats if you rushed through it. Take your time you can finish with the full 1000.
  To top the game of you play as an assassin AN ASSASSIN, who doesnt love stelth killing people from 
 the rafters of there own homes? 
  Have Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Slayer21
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Now when I first heard about this game I couldn't help but to get excited. I absolutely love the 
 era of the third crusades. I love King Ricard "the lion heart" who was more of a soldier than a 
 king. But regardless of the amazing history this game gives me another reason to love the third 
 crusades, the Hashshashins who actually existed they were a group of Shia Muslims who were persecuted 
 by the Sunni Muslims. The Hashshashins sent someone to kill the Sunni leaders which is where the 
 word assassin comes form. In Assassin's Creed you play as one of these Hashshashins and are sent 
 out to kill certain people. Now this game has a few flaws but the flaws of this game are minuscule 
 compared to the rest of the game flaws such as the fact that Altar a master assassin cannot swim. 
 I still cannot believe he cannot swim. such a silly thing like that. Also I seen videos on youtube 
 of some of the glitches in AC and I have yet to see them within the game itself. This is possible 
 the best game I have ever played I was disappointed by the twist in the story setting the actual 
 game in the future was a very nice twist but I was hoping for something more historical. If you 
 don't already own a copy of Assassin's Creed then I suggest you go out and buy a one now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed brings us this historic feeling where you feel that your in an old place and that 
 you've been swaped into the past. The fact that you can climb buildings and wield a knife is just 
 awesome. A typical Assassin these days would wield a sniper but they did'nt have snipers back then 
 so they used knives to assasinate. When you walk around people on the streets they actually react 
 to whatever you do in the game. That is what I call realistic. The AI's are pretty good in the 
 game. After you have assassinated someone with a knife than people will react that you were the 
 killer. They will react and stay away from you incase they get caught. The AI's get scared of you 
 and run as fast as they can to stay away. That's the thing I like about this game because people 
 react whatever you do which is awesome. The bad thing about this game is that when you jump from 
 the building high above the ground, how could you possibly survive from a high stack? How would 
 you know that there was a high stack in the first place. You don't so that's a question to the 
 developers. The fighting and killing gets a bit repetitive after you play the game so your fun 
 at this game may fade out.
  Overall this game is great the AI's react to you so realistic and it feels like you were actually 
 in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flame_tiberium
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Why this game is very entertaining, it repeats itself over the entire game but what it repeats 
 is what makes it stick. I enjoyed how it gave you a taste of the weapondry/skill at the beggining 
 of the game then strips you of it and makes you work for it like a chinese peasant. The ease of 
 the fighting style is quite easy but the cinamatics and gameplay amuses me and it is a game i shall 
 be playing for a while longer but im sure i will get bored easy and tire of the gameplay as the 
 campaigne is a bit short of my liking. although there is many other things to do like collecting 
 flags, banners and saving, it like many many other xbox 360 games lacks multiplayer as every person 
 knows that if there mate comes over they want to play a game to, But!!! thats the thing when i 
 was watching my younger brother play this game i was entertained as if i was there playing it. 
 This game has given me hours of entertainment and will for a while to come. I also hope that many 
 other owners of this game can get as much enjoyment as i have so i have decided to give this game 
 a 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andhyt93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a great game with huge potential. The graphics are amazing, the voice acting 
 and artwork is also excellent. The wall climbing/jumping works well and creates a very free feel 
 to the game. The large scale og the three cities makes the game feel very big and there's a lot 
 to find and explore. The assassination part is also very interesting and it's often fun to find 
 new ways to take out your unsuspecting targets.
  
  My biggest problem with Assassins Creed was the combat. Although in the beginning it can be quite 
 challenging as you're still getting used to it, but as you get more and more confident in handling 
 combat, it ends up being very repetitive and easy. In the end combat is just a small obstacle that 
 you often run in to, which is easily overcome, even if you're vastly outnumbered. It's only at 
 the very end it gets a bit tough, but you'll have to play the game to see what I mean.
  
  Other than the combat part, this is a very enjoyable game with a great storyline and a big world 
 to explore. If you don't mind teh sword-fighting to be easy, then you should definitely check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray4594
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one of the greatest free roaming games that I have ever played next to GTA. 
 You are an assassin named Altair and you get sent on missions to do things such as eave drop, pickpocket, 
 killing someone, and much more. Though the story was a little short for me, I had a great time 
 playing it while it lasted. The AI in the game is fairly aggressive. If they find you to be suspicious 
 in any way, they will attack you in an instant. Not to mention that they would call in reinforcements 
 to take you down. Escaping in the game is also great since you can climb very well, run up walls 
 and do all these acrobatic tricks. Another distinctive thing is that you have a few weapons in 
 your arsenal. You will have your trusty hidden blade for stealthy kills, a dagger, a long sword 
 and some throwing knives along with that. But don't forget you still have your fists, but I don't 
 recommend using that against people with swords. So if you like killing people in a silent way 
 with a hidden knife, or escaping the guards by running on top of a roof then jumping into hay, 
 this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  This game draws you in from the get go. You boot it up and you never ever want to take you hands 
 off it. Lets start with all the pros then we will move to the cons which are few and far between.
 
  
  1) Pros:
  This game looks superb on the 360, PS3 and PC. The presentation is just stunning. Every brick in 
 a building, every stone on the ground, the large vast landscapes you will endavuer. Its just all 
 so good. Sometimes you just want to go to the highest point in the game at that point and just 
 marvel at the surroundings for a moment. The soundtrack also compliments the setting of the crusade 
 times well. The game mechanics are noticably new and different. You always have to keep an eye 
 at the button layout at the bottom left-hand corner of your in-game HUD. This is because it changes 
 from when in 'action mode' and when in 'fight mode' or 'assinate mode'. So this will constantly 
 keep you on your toes. You can't just go into this game and button mash.
  
  2) Cons:
  Well, this game takes such a long time to load on the PS3 version. I just can't stand it. Well 
 mostly I think its because of the stunning graphics that are on display during gameplay, then when 
 i surf the web looking for comparisons of the game on its 360 cousin and with its PS3 version (which 
 you will have more than enough time to do while this game loads a single-level) , most people say 
 that the 360 version is slightly better (graphics wise) . So that is definitely a con. And lastly, 
 there is the case of the weird disappointing ending. I really did not understand it at all.
  
  3) The round-up:
  If you have played video games before, buy this game. You owe it to youself. 
 If you are relatively new to video games, buy it. It does not matter if your being playing video 
 games since the first one ever was relesed, or if you first knew about the thing calld video games 
 when the PS3, Xbox 360 and the Wii was released, this game will knock your socks off. Even with, 
 let me count..... the two cons that it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Granty4835
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  After seeing that this is to be released on Xbox 360 Classics I feel compelled to give my quick 
 2 cents worth on what has to be the biggest disappointing release that I have bought to date.
 
  
  To cut it short, its really really boring. Its starts off really well, and the graphics are very 
 impressive, as is the way you can climb almost anything. but this is short lived as by the 5th 
 mission you realise that everything, yes everything in this game is repetitive. from pickpocketing..... again, 
 to saving the citizen...... again, and again, and again, and again. I enjoyed climbing on the rooftops 
 and sneaking up to the archers on the roof to take them out "assassin style". until the developers 
 ruined this by giving me a set of throwing knives that never miss and have zero skill involved 
 in using them whatsoever!!
  
  Its true...... select knives, target enemy and throw.
  
  Don't use them I hear you say, well there are that many rooftop guards, you soon get bored of sneaking 
 up on them so the knives mean you can finish the mission, and this god awful game that bit quicker.
 
  
  There are also strange cut scenes that mean you have to get off the contraption that they are using 
 and go to bed...... what is the point of this.
  
  I don't know, I lost the will to carry on after level 5.... I did speak with a friend, who suffered 
 the whole game and he told me it did not improve. So I am glad, there is much better games out 
 there. Ubisoft need to realise that looks are not everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a stealth action game. The story is that you're an assassin that needs to eliminate 
 nine men to end the Crusades. During your journey, you'll learn about a world crisis. The graphics 
 are incredible. The cutscenes are great but the gameplay graphics are just as good. The gameplay 
 is divided into high profile and low profile modes in everything you do. Low profile keeps you 
 hidden but slow. High profile will allow you to move swiftly but will attract guards. Low profile 
 actions include blending and steath assassinations. You'll have an array of weapons such as swords, 
 daggers, throwing knives, andd the all important hidden blade. High profile action include sprinting 
 and fighting. This game will very easy to recommend because it's very enjoyable.
  
  Story- 9
  Graphics- 10
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycaboose568
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw one of the Trailers for Assaissin's Creed, it looked... different. Any way, when 
 i bought it and held it in my hands, I honestly didn't know what to expect. But when I put the 
 game in my 360 and played about an hour into it, I realized that I was playing something FAN-TASTIC!!! 
 The gameplay is Top-notch and completly different from anything you've ever played before! The 
 game really shines, because of the unlimited amount of free roaming and endless places that you 
 can travel to. For example, jumping off a 50 story tower and landing into a haystack is something 
 completly different and its always fun to do that. From running on roof-tops, to jumping off buildings, 
 this game is totally different from anything else you'll probably play this year. But my favorite 
 part of Asssasin's Creed is the fighting and the killing. Never has killing a target made you feel 
 like such a bad-ass. This is what Assasin's Creed acomplishes. There are many ways to kill your 
 targets, from killing them stealthy or to pulling out your sword and taking on 20 gaurds at once. 
 You eventually learn many new combos that make you preety much untouchable, if you mastered these 
 combos. Overall, Assasin's Creed is definetly a game that delivers and will rock your world. Don't 
 miss out on the awesome adventure that is Assasin's Creed. You will not be dissapointed! If you 
 like stealth, action-adventure games, this will be a great addition to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwright82
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  After you kill your first two assassination targets, you've experienced all the fun this game has 
 to offer. In fact if you rescue a few citizens, mug a few guys, kill some guards, and do all the 
 information gathering quests on your first assassination mission you've done all the game has to 
 offer. There's three sections in three cities that open up to you as you go through the game. They 
 look great, but end up looking exactly alike. You can't do anything in any other city section that 
 you can't do on the fist mission, you just get more weapons and moves. Needless to say by the time 
 you get through all the assassination missions, which are all exactly the same, you really hope 
 the ending is great. It is not, it wasn't even worth playing through half, nevermind all this game. 
 The graphics are beautiful and the game is almost bug free, but I could never recommend it to anyone. 
 The story really isn't very engaging and the ending is just as lame. It's obviously meant to connect 
 to a sequel, but I would only play a sequel if I was paid to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is in many ways like Christmas. The anticipation is high, and when it arrives 
 you can only be awed by the joy food and presents, but by and by when it's all over you feel deflated, 
 and think to yourself, "is that it?" Assassin's Creed truly is a remarkable game. The visuals, 
 voice acting and animations look great as does the music and sound effects. This is the game that 
 is better with one eye closed. That way, only good aspects remain while glaringly bad ones are 
 out of sight. 
  
  For a while the feel of "wow I can do anything" and "it looks good too!" will be your initial thoughts, 
 but after playing through you'll realize that some parts of the game might've been thought over 
 a bit more before leaving the developer's table. Around town after you save citizens, pickpocket, 
 climb insanely tall towers and eavesdrop on loud citizens and soldiers. After completing a "save 
 the citizen" task they will thank you, which after saving them will be a too-heard rendition of 
 "Praise God! You saved me!" or something similar. Your initial task is to run around the Holy Land 
 and assassinate 9 men, who are "war-mongrels" and "death-bringers." AS aforementioned, the only 
 way to go about this is to investigate, interrogate and contemplate. This is done for every assassination, 
 which means going around and doing this 9 freakin' times! 
  
  The Story, while mildly interesting, is disjointed and feels empty for the amount of cut scenes 
 needed to convey it. The real fun is simply going around and doing your thing Assassin style. This 
 is where the real good, original design of the game is fleshed out, making the bad features only 
 a mildly annoying afterthought.
  
  In conclusion, for around $29.99 you can get this game now, which is more than less how much it's 
 worth-a good game, but not worth $49.99. For that buck a highly fun experience will fill your library, 
 and you will be glad you bought it, all the while hoping for a better two sequels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 223dex
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is set back in the 1100's. You start by defending a castle. After that you lose 
 all of the good weapons and you get them back by doing assassinations. The fighting action is very 
 good. The counters and the stealth kills are very impressive. Overall this game is good as long 
 as you dont rush through it. If you rush through it you will miss out on all that the game has 
 to offer. Yes this game is repetitive, but thats why you shouldnt rush through it. I would tell 
 people to get this game if they are looking for a fun action free-roaming game. The missions in 
 this game are hard if you make them hard. The controls in this game are good but you cant just 
 pick it up and expect to be good. The learning curve is about 2-3 hours to get to master the controls. 
 The graphics are amazing. Compared to other games this games graphics are one of the best out there. 
 After you beat the game you can replay it and be able to assassinate anybody with out hurting yourself. 
 Increasing you health meter is done by saving citizens and completeing assassinations. After every 
 assassination you upgrade weapons. You can also pick-pocket thugs to get more throwing knifes. 
 If you fight a thug using your fist, you will get one throwing knife instead of five. There are 
 four ways of hiding from the soldiers after the the sign turns yellow. A bench, hay stacks, clothed 
 little houses, and hanging out with the scholars. They will only work if the soldiers lose sight 
 of you before going to these places. This game has so much to offer you just have to give it a 
 chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I loved Prince of Persia: Sands of Time quite a bit. It was an outstanding game. Warrior Within 
 took away from the original, but was a very good game, and Two Thrones improved on WW but never 
 quite relived to the magic of SoT.
  
  Now, all three of these games feature an agile, sword-wielding warrior who will flip around you 
 17 times and quickly butcher you as opposed to tearing your face off a la Kratos which just so 
 happens to be my favorite kind of bad-ass warrior.
  
  So when I hear that the same company is making a game set in 1191 during the Third Crusade where 
 you play an acrobatic assassin with all kinds of amazing weapons, I'm pumped. I'm even more pumped 
 when I hear about the rooftop shenanigans and the ability to climb out any wall. The graphics were 
 amazing, and the animation is quite possibly the best I have ever seen, but the game fell flat 
 on its face for me.
  
  Where did this excellent idea go horribly, horribly wrong? First of all, the one button combat 
 system. Who in their right mind decided it would be smart to map EVERY attack to the X button? 
 That is unforgivably shallow in a modern action/adventure game. I mean, God of War gets some flack 
 for its occasional button mashing combat, and it has a two-button system. And then there's the 
 likes of Devil May Cry, which yes, you can get through the game with a few buttons, but to truly 
 take advantage of the system and actually be "good," you have to consistently use every button 
 that the controller offers.
  
  Horrible system aside, what else went wrong? The game is repetitive. Obnoxiously repetitive. "You 
 need information! Beat him up, pickpocket her, and listen to their conversation." "Got it." 900 
 TIMES. Why? It is absolutely unnecessary, and there needed to be more variance. It's almost as 
 pathetic as a one-button combat system.
  
  The plot, I can't say much on because the game didn't keep my interest for more than a couple hours. 
 Although the thing about you reliving your ancestor's memory or whatever? Who the hell cares? And 
 then the actual plot of the assassin part of this game? Nigh worthless to me. And I love myself 
 a good 1200 AD swordfest. It's hard to give me a barely sensible plot in that period and me dislike 
 it, so, kudos to Ubisoft.
  
  Those are my three main problems with the game which are more than enough for me to keep it from 
 being worth a damn, because what the game does right are mostly cosmetic.
  
  The most worthwhile positive to the game are that the controls are very thorough and responsive, 
 it's never frustrating to try and shove some guy because Altair shoves them every single time. 
 Also, as I mentioned, the graphics and the animations were very impressive. Albeit the "leap of 
 faith" wasn't that exciting the first time and lost its allure immediately.
  
  Other than that, there wasn't a whole lot to this game. My favorite thing about it? Running on 
 rooftops. When you have more fun running on rooftops than leaping on a random dude and stabbing 
 your hidden blade into his throat, the game is a mess.
  
  This is one of the biggest disappointments of all time in the video game industry.
  
  Hopefully 
 Prince of Persia will bring back Ubisoft's integrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma_PS2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Assassins's Creed is very good game that I would say is very addicting. It does get a little confusing 
 and frustrating some times but you just can't stop playing. I love how you can kill so many guards 
 and templars and once and the hiding spots are awesome and all the weapons are great for killing. 
 My favorite weapon would have to be the throwing knives, I love that. Anyways, this game may seem 
 like a ''been there done that'' kind of game but when you play it you will change your mind very 
 quickly. No one can say that this game sucks or is a waste of time because it does not suck and 
 I play it every single day. I got this game July 21 on my birthday and I put it in my XBOX 360 
 and I fell in love with this game. If I were to choose then I would say it is in the top 10 of 
 the best games this year!!!! Great Game, 9.0!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reject09
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Controls- Smooth, easy to pick up, well thought out, fun to use, combat is fluid and fun, large 
 fights can get tedious but are still fun
  
  Graphics-crisp, fantastic full city visuals, good character animation, lifelike movements
  
 
  Sound- good voice acting, nice combat and environmental noise, city noises are immersive and lifelike
 
  
  Replayability- good campaign length, lots to do in second or third play throughs, good story that 
 has a lot of twists and questions, worth playing thru more than once
  
  Overall I really liked this game. The graphics and sound were amazing. The combat was fun and smooth. 
 The story, though at times confusing is very good and well thought out. I really liked that it included 
 real world history within the game. My only complaints are that some side quests are repetitive 
 and can get old quick. Mass fights are actually a little too easy. In the end though Assassins 
 Creed delivers a solid, fun, lasting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Apologies, but for just one minute I have to join the screaming multitudes.
  
  Let me say that there are cliff hanger endings, and there are endings that com e simply because 
 the developers decided that the next game would begin here. Assassin's Creed has one of the later 
 category. It's a shame that the game has such a bad case of schizophrenia - it oscillates so quickly 
 from being engaging to being mind-blowingly dull that I wonder if it shouldn't go on prosaic, spend 
 a weekend in Vegas and go see if it can't work out what must be some pretty troubling issues with 
 its father.
  
  Visually, the game is superb. Environments glow, clouds and characters alike cast shadows, birds 
 flock towards distant, fog obscured mountains. All of it is gorgeous and one realizes that the 
 shine on this game's presentation is largely responsible for the game's positive reviews.
  
  And even technically, the game is impressive. It has several living, breathing cities that 
 use different type of architecture (although I'm not sure how many houses were transplanted out 
 of downtown London during the Crusades) . Altair follows the Prince of Persia in having an incredibly 
 varied move count - watch him climb laterally on the side of a building and its likely you wont 
 see a single move repeat. Combat is entertaining, Camera work is superb. People weave in and out 
 of traffic, and the cities are alive... even if generally its a city populated by a citizen mass 
 that enjoys repeating itself endlessly.
  
  But the story - Oh, god, the story - What a shambles. All "memory" characters - and the protagonist 
 in white most of all - are terribly realized. Writers need to learn that editing out all contractions 
 does not make a character sound noble or historic. It makes him sound strange and off rhythm. I 
 compare the "present" storyline to the "past", though, and the difference couldn't be more pronounced. 
 Characters interact, they have personality, they get angry or funny or any number of emotions, 
 and all the performance is plausible and engaging. If they had shot for a more natural sounding 
 dialog in the past they would have had in me a rapt and attentive audience. As it was I barely 
 listened to any of the dialog, and resented all the side quests that the game required me to take 
 before I went a-killin'. The limited beneath the surface story, as per Halo 3, does a little revive 
 the game but in the end its all too little, too late. In the end it's this aspect of the game that 
 drags the other elements down.
  
  It was a decent game. But I'm selling it back today because I'm certain that I will never, ever 
 play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowReaper313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! In my opinion it is also a little underappreciated. Not many people like 
 it because it gets repetitive, but who really thinks killing people in broad daylight and getting 
 away with it can be repetitive. Whoever that person is, they lead a sad life. Imagine a game where 
 you can run across roof tops and jump onto a innocent begger with the fury of hell. sounds cool 
 doesnt it. Well, that is assassin's creed. If u dont want to get it by now hope is lost to u. The 
 rest is to fill up the requirement. i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i. i i i i i ii i i 
 i i i ii i i i iii i i ii ii i i ii i ii i i i i i ii i i i ii i ii i i i i i i i ii i i ii i i 
 i i ii i i i i ii i i i ii i i i ii i ii i i iii i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i ii i iii 
 i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i ii i i i i ii i i i i i i ii i ii i ii i i i 
 i i i i i i i ii ii i i i i i i i ii i i i i ii i i ii i i i i ii i i iii ii i i i ii i i i i i 
 ii ii i i ii i i ii ii i ii i i i i i i ii i i. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game is literally the most beautiful game, graphics wise, that I have ever seen. It so masterfully 
 captures the amazing expanse that was the holy land that you could almost believe it was real. 
 You play as Altair and assassin working for Al Mualim in Masyaf. You begin the game with all of 
 your ability's and weapons, but due to your over-confidence you failed in your very first mission 
 and are stripped of all ranks and skills. You have to work your way up the ladder once again and 
 as you play throughout the game, you do just this. Now this game is fraught with spoilers so I 
 can't describe half of all the things I'm sure an aspiring assassins creed freak will want to know 
 but I'll do the best I can.
  You have many weapons at your disposal such as a sword, throwing knives, a little dagger and your 
 assassins blade. All can be used effectively against enemies. As you progress throughout the game 
 there are 9 targets to be killed. There are three in each city, damascus, acre, and jerusalem. 
 Each city is unique in its own way. there is also a huge expanse known as the kingdom bridging 
 the gap between the three cities and Masyaf. The crowds all have their own individual AI and you 
 can feel like you truly are in a huge bustling city. Also, Altair has the ability to climb up nearly 
 any surface, and this becomes very useful when trying to get around the city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flames344Life
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was the first game that I saw that I felt really took advantage of the visual 
 capabilities of the 360 and the PS3; it looks purely amazing. Plus, it doesn't hurt that cutscenes 
 are in-game, and not just "cinematics", so if you think about it, the whole game looks like one 
 huge "cinematic". Epic Win. Now I know that the main complaint about this game is that it gets 
 too repetitive, and I acknowledge the fact that it does indeed eventually get repetitive, but the 
 stuff that you repeat is so much fun that I don't even care. The entertainment factor easily makes 
 up for any flaws in this game, and the hidden blade is easily one of the most bad-ass weapons in 
 videogame history, and is so much fun to use. Also, the story is simply epic, and makes a couple 
 of twists and turns that you won't see coming at you. You'll probably find yourself playing this 
 game through multiple times due to its addictive gameplay. 10/10 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3m3sis0V3RL0RD
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the greatest games i have played all year. The storyline is epic and The 
 gameplay is amazing. How else am i going to explain the greatness of this game, Just WOW!!!!!! 
 The graphics were so good and so crystal clear, i could swear it was extremely close to the real 
 world. The ending was really good too. Kinda makes you think if they are going to do an Assassins 
 Creed 2. Well one can only hope. lol. One of the features of the game that i liked was collecting 
 the flags and helping citizens, and the way your could kill the guards. Hearing that ding letting 
 you know you got that achievement was music to my ears. This is why i feel i must give this game 
 a full 10 out of 10. Utter Masterpiece. Oh one more thing, if you haven't played this game yet, 
 Buy it, Play it, and Play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I know i said this alot but this is definetly one of the best games this year, i mean wow its awesome. 
 I just got it but what i did play was awesome. Also i never knew that you can climb buildings and 
 jump off them into hay stacks, that just blew me away. I love the special moves you could do with 
 your big sword, and your mini dagger its awesome. This game graphics are great to it actually looks 
 like real people and i love that you can switch from the future to the past. Assassin creed also 
 has a great story line too. This game is fantastic and thats why i love 
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dough007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I couldn't imagine climbing every building to check out the amazing 
 view. Their is so much design and features in this game. You can kill anyone, climb anything, and 
 watch the view. I think the storyline is pretty good. I haven't beat the game yet, but I've played 
 it enough to see how much detail is put into this game. The game gives you the weapon of the hand 
 knife, the throwing knives, the sword, and of course, your fists of fury. The game gets into an 
 awesome start and right into the action. I say the sword action is incredible and so realistic. 
 I hope to one day beat this game to see the end. You don't have to always do the mission. You can 
 always check the whole world or go to the tallest building and relax to check out the view. I do 
 it sometimes, but I always can't wait to see what the next mission is. I know I say this a lot, 
 but this is a game to get because of its incredible detail and freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Assasins creed it a must own in my view, because the game has sooo many good things going for it 
 and sooo little problems. The good, is that the game will dazzle your eyes, ears, hands, mind. 
 It; s a visual feast, the music, sound, and voice-acting is amazing. The game play flows smoothly, 
 and is brutaly fun, you can play stealthy, you can play head-on, or a mix of them both, and the 
 game will be fun any way you play it. And the game is long, so don't worry about finishing this 
 one in a weekend. And every aspect is amazing.... but....... is isn't without faults. Every once 
 in a while you will fall off a roof to your death, or grab the wrong ledge and feel cheated, because 
 you thought you pressed the right button, however this is EXTREMELY rare, and will only happen 
 a handfull of times thoughout the lengthy adventure. The only big problems I had were three things. 
 ONE, the biggest suprise is spoiled at the begining. TWO, the game's ending is lame. And THREE, 
 the game play will wear thin near the end, and you will want it to end by the time is does. The 
 game just bearly hold on to you at the end, because it has you do the same quests over and over 
 and over and over again, it is extrememly fun, but after you do the same quest 80 times, and hear 
 the same response from the Ai charecter you just saved, you will wonder why? But the game is amazing 
 inspite these flaws, and is a must own, because after you do beat the game, you will feel acomplished 
 inside, and will probably smile and grin a little, as you reflect on all the people you just killed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjroma
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a beautiful game. No doubt. Kinda interesting complex linear storyline caught 
 me in the beginning. Wow, this looks great! 
  
  It has a great concept and graphic design project for sure. The could integrate futuristic digital 
 elements with the medieval East-European look with mastery. The in-game hud is, in my opinion, 
 perfect. Reminds you that you are in a machine, living a digital experience, a delicious meta-linguistic 
 feature.
  
  The movements are perfect. They smoothly go from a stance to another, without frame breaks, without 
 hurting your senses. Only riding a horse has a small frame break to jump. But no big deal.
  
  But, I agree with Crawford (2003) : "This is not a movie, not a book, not a musical, its a game!"
 
  
  And its a quite repetitive game. Cities looks pretty much alike. More than once I forgot which 
 city I was. 
  
  And, in every city, you can/have to do the same things over and over again. And its all easy, even 
 bosses are easy. Hiding from soldiers chasing you is easy and not challenging at all. Actually 
 its frustrating. Most of the time i rather kill them all. Even if you get surrounded by 10+ guards 
 its very easy to kill all of them quickly. 
  
  Right now I am playing the game just to know how the story ends. 
  
  I like Ubisoft games and 
 I felt in love with the PoP: Warrior Within and Two Thrones. Maybe I was just expecting too much 
 from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProximaCentuari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I bought my xbox for this game because when i saw the trailer i was just astonished. it seems like 
 and other prince of persia but more advanced and in jerusalem. i was very amazed.
  
  When i played it i was very excited and i just didnt wanna finsh it because then i could play it 
 forever. the game is just too gooooood. the story is extraordinary and semms to be more on a realistic 
 side.
  the cities jerusalem, damascus, acre and masyaf look too realistic .
  this game is ste in 1191 or somethin i cant remember. the point is that it is like in 12 centuries 
 after the birth of christ. in the game you are an assassin called altair who assassinates bad guys. i 
 just dont wanna spoil it for you.
  
  Now altair is good with his swords and the combat is good and the way he counteratacks look very 
 real and the way .Altairis also very fast and sporty.
  he can run on rooftops climd nearly anything. He is an assassin and his job is to kill the person 
 he is after .to carry on with an assassination you first have to investigate the enemy by roming 
 in the streets to collect info on the targets whereabouts. you can do this by eavesdroppind , interrogating 
 and other ways.
  
  this game is like hitman games but in older times.
  
  gameplay 10
  graphics 9.5
  story 10
  tilt 9
  value 9
  overall 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is like a good, epic fantasy movie with a few horrid actors and an ending that 
 is disappointingly bad. 
  After saying that, the game doesn't sound like it is good. Don't get me wrong, I really liked the 
 game and it is extremely good. It does however have some major flaws (some are just things people 
 choose to pick out, others truly are bad mistakes) . The story for the game is relatively complicated, 
 probably overly so. You control this character that has been kidnapped (so it seems) by scientists 
 who are using a special machine to read into your ancestors memories. This is based off a simple 
 idea that through time, not only genes and DNA is passed on through generations, but also memories 
 and ideas. The machine your character is forced to lie on reads the memories and tells the stories 
 of your ancient ancestors. The scientists are looking for a certain "magic" object that your ancestors 
 knew about and they are using you to find out the object's last known location. You are then placed 
 on machine, your memory is read and you jump into the character of Altair. 
  Altair puts the assassin in assassin's creed. Funnily enough, he also belongs to an order that 
 follows a certain creed. Altair's life revolves around the assassin's creed in 12th century (or 
 something like that) Middle East. He and others work for a master assassin who basically gives 
 them jobs to do. Anyway, the master gives Altair a number of targets he needs to take out (nine 
 in fact) in various different cities and under differing levels of protection. Hence the difficulty 
 level changes according to who you are trying to kill. In between Assassinations, your character 
 in present day world will be taken off the machine, and you take control of that guy. Get back 
 in the machine, and you control Altair and his story. That is basically how it works, and now you 
 see what i mean by it being overly complicated. A medieval assassin game would have been fine, 
 but they tried to be a little too clever. 
  With the story in the bag, lets talk about the game play. The game looks amazing. The graphics 
 engine is an incredible piece of work, rendering thousands of people (making up convincing and 
 realistic crowds) and spectacular cities. There are 3 cities in the game, and then an "outside" 
 world in between them all filled with villages, towns, rivers, mountains, and plenty of baddies 
 and collectables. The game is simply stunning. The visuals and the sound are fine tuned to perfection 
 making every movement an absolute joy. The detail on everything is incredible, down to how and 
 when clothes blow in the wind; birds fly off their perch when you clamber onto a rooftop. Soldiers 
 change their posture according to how nervous they are. It really is outstanding. The game also 
 boasts of what i believe is called "the one inch rule" which means that Altair (incredibly acrobatic) 
 can cling onto, and hold or climb anything that sticks out more than an inch. I explored the game 
 from top to toe, and found no circumstance where this was not the case. Bearing in mind the world 
 has large cities, with mosque towers and castles and cathedrals. Climbing alone is awesome. 
  Having said that, there are some minor areas of repetition that may annoy many players. With such 
 a large game world, there is a lack of diversity when it comes to voices and side quests. As you 
 explore the market places, be it on the ground pushing through the crowd or on the rafters with 
 the pigeons you will hear plenty of the bubbly city life which is impossible to decipher and where 
 repetition is not noticed. There is however the same few lines of dialogue that will crop up over 
 and over for players doing side quests. Defending civilians gets boring fast, especially when they 
 call for help, and thank you for saving them in exactly the same way, every time, despite looking 
 completely different. The collectibles in the game are also completely pointless. While it is a 
 joy clambering all over the playground that has been made Jerusalem, the makers put so many collectibles 
 in that i think it is an overload. There are about 200 flags to be found for each type of flag. 
 There are then about 8 or 9 types of flags. I'm not good at math, but i know that adds up to a 
 lot. The game simply isn't fun long enough to collect that many flags and will only be done by 
 achievement junkies. It's a shame simply because it makes collecting a chore, rather than something 
 fun. 
  I mentioned earlier that there were interludes when you would switch between playing as Altair 
 and the other modern day guy. Well the Altair bits are fun, tense and exciting. The other parts 
 of the game are boring, dull, drab and uneventful. Simple as that: finish an assassination and 
 you'll be pulled out of the game world and dumped back into the hands of the scientists prodding 
 your brain. During these sequences, they will talk to you in real time (no cut scenes) which means 
 you can't skip them and are forced to wander the room aimlessly looking for something to do until 
 the crazy man shuts up. Its a real spoiler for the mood of medieval Damascus. The ending of the 
 game is also notably bad, consisting of all the worst endings to a game all rolled into one. I 
 won't tell you what happens for spoiler sakes, but it really is a very big letdown. 
  The Altair levels are good though. People like to pick on the bad things about this game, but anyone 
 who does is merely picking the seeds out of a juicy strawberry. As i said, the game looks amazing 
 with some of the best graphics to date. Extend that to a massive game world, realist crowds of 
 people that panic when a murder has taken place, will fight you if you push them around or do their 
 shopping like normal people, it is a real spectacle and an astounding achievement. The combat is 
 great fun, actually requiring skill in timing to master the moves. It isn't button bashing or combo 
 mastering. Climbing and exploring the game world is fun, where your limits are few and far between. 
 Get into a fight you can't handle; bail out; free running up the wall and over the city roof-tops. 
 You can choose where you fight your enemies, luring them onto roof tops to be thrown off or into 
 alley ways where walls and ladders make handy weapons or escape routes. There really is so much 
 diversity to it, and that stretches to the assassinations as well, not just free roaming. Outside 
 of the cities, you can ride horses which move probably as realistically as I've seen in a game. 
 Others have tried (two worlds, Oblivion) but they failed. Horse movements are hard to get right. 
 Only GUN came close. Assassin's Creed however got it just right. 
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a good game. Is really is a masterpiece with a few faults. Naturally 
 a lot of people choose to highlight the faults (in my experience anyway) and forget what an achievement 
 the game really is. People are who let themselves get distracted by the minor issues will miss 
 out on truly revolutionary and awesome experience. That said though, the ending to the story is 
 still extremely bad, and I believe stretches beyond the most disappointing of endings. Its unoriginal, 
 predictable, and one massive let down. My advice to people thinking of playing the game is this; 
 Rent it or borrow it, play it and love it. Don't complete the last assassination. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halopwns
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassions creed , great game for thous who like going enywere climbing iintything and killing 
 iny1. I expeasily like to counter people, You can also through knives get a sort blade use a long 
 sword and use a hidden blade (witch is best for stelth assassinations) I wish the game would have 
 been a little longer and also i stubbled across some miner glitches but nothing to worry about. 
 This game is cinda plane 1nce u play it alot i wasnt as interested in it as my brother witch played 
 it constintly to me it was just another decant game, if ur reading this reveiw to see if u want 
 to by the game i would say no dont by it theirs alot of other good games coming out soo and trust 
 me some of them half to be better than assassions creed. I would have a better time playing with 
 a yo yo and i dont even know how to use one i cant even play the game for more than 2 hours at 
 a time it just gets boring u half to keep assasinating people woo and its all the same in a way 
 all u do in a mission is go to a view point or 2 find were u need to assasinat and boom done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakanakaba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Assassin's Creed, I was hyped up about it. Everything looked amazing in 
 the trailers and the fact that you're playing a medeival assassin... awesome. Then I finally got 
 to play the game and it was pretty much what I had expected; a great and entertaining experience.
 
  The graphics are top notch and the artwork and design for the game were very impressive. It looked 
 so good; even the people who are simply there looked so detailed and amazing that I was in awe 
 of the entire time playing this game.
  The gameplay was very innovating and smooth that it was really easy to get the hang of all the 
 stuff you had to do as the assassin. Although it was easy to get the hang of it, it wasn't so easy 
 for most of the game. The AIs were very good and tuff to beat. The fact that the civilians would 
 react immediately was a neat feature and the guards were very challenging when your cover was blown. 
 All in all, this had the best possible feel to the gameplay as it possibly could have.
  The real downside of this was the story for me. It was really short and the whole futuristic parts 
 were really dumb. The game could've (and should've been) simply the timeset that it is based on, 
 not on some future BS.
  Overall, great game. Definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngels_Assasin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this for me was one of the most anticipated titles of 07, although it didnt live up to the 
 hype its still a good game. The story is a repetitve one , go there kill him , go there kill him 
 etc. You get to choose different methods to kill him which is pretty nice. The events leading up 
 to be able to kill someone are boring having you do repetitive missions to gather information about 
 your target. The best part about this game is the free roam. Giving the ability to go anywhere 
 you want , climb any building and kill whoever , the guards will attack if you go to a restricted 
 area or if they see you kill someone. One thing that bothers me is that the guards have the same 
 abilities of climbing than you do which isnt really credible. The fighting system is easy smashing 
 some buttons at the right time to pull off some counters. you can choose from 4 different weapons 
 , (fists , short sword , long sword , throwing knives) . Traveling between cities a borring and 
 long tome where you travel with your horse threw a wasteland, filled with guards. This gets fixed 
 at about the 3 mission where fast-travel becomes available. One thind that will keep you busy for 
 a while if youre an achievment seeker is the flags. There more than 200 flags around the world 
 that will take you a long , long while to take.
  
  Overall this is a decent game that will keep you busy for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonCha91
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that is refreshing and different. It provides enjoyment for gamers  
 of all ages and skill levels  throughout and constantly tries to keep you interested. It also 
 provides superb graphics and fluent animations, a compelling story and convincing voice actors. 
 For Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 owners alike, this is a game that they simply must-own.
  
  Assassin's Creed is set in 1191 AD  around the time of the Crusaders. You play the role of an 
 assassin  Altair  with various missions sending you on various assassinations. The outline of 
 the story is that you are sent to track down and kill nine important figures throughout the land. 
 You can explore three cities: Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem. While these are the main places where 
 the missions take place, they have three sub-sections  the Poor, Middle and Rich Districts  that 
 you can explore. This is only a memory, though, as you are actually a bartender called Desmond 
 who is a descendant of Altair. His genetic code has stored these memories in his brain, which are 
 accessed by a machine called the Animus.
  
  While you can't explore all the districts from the get-go, the game has a nasty habit of keeping 
 you entertained for long periods of time.
  
  The world of Creed is simply outstanding. Each main city you can visit has such a high amount of 
 detail, and depth, that you simply want to explore everything. Everything in the city - from something 
 as small as a merchant stall to something as large as a watch tower  has an outstanding amount 
 of detail to it. Every building, wall and pathway simply looks incredibly realistic and even the 
 finer areas of the game don't cease to amaze. In particular is Altair himself who, in full High-Definition 
 glory, simply looks spectacular as every area of his clothing looks incredibly rich and detailed 
 and really brings the protagonist alive. Occasionally the frame rates do slow down a little, though 
 otherwise there are no problems.
  
  The population of the world in which you explore is also as wonderful, as each city is highly populated 
 and forces you to interact with it. Even when walking the streets, you'll often see vendors trying 
 their utmost to sell the products and trying to attract the attention of people nearby. But when 
 reaching higher areas of the world the sound will becoming more distant, and you'll be able to 
 hear odd words, until you reach the highest of buildings where you won't be able to hear anyone 
 below you. All you'll really be able to hear is the wind rushing past you, and possibly the occasional 
 screech of a bird.
  
  Climbing is integral to Creed's gameplay, as it enables to you explore every inch of every city 
 (or otherwise) in the game. Being as you aren't super-human, you'll have to climb and explore every 
 surface imaginable. Here the animations are superb, as the surface  not matter how small or large 
  is scaled with an equal amount of realism. Altair shows a wide range of techniques to climb up 
 almost any surface, whether this is a simple window or a formation of rocks. This is consistent 
 throughout the game, and never lets up. There are, quite literally, no limitations as to where 
 you go as there is so much to explore and find that you'll be looking in every place imaginable.
 
  
  Aside from the climbing, there is also the aspect of free-running. This is basically being able 
 to walk, run or jump over any kind of platform no matter what shape or size. And also, there are 
 repercussions if you aren't careful. Jumping off a building won't mean that the game will automatically 
 find the nearest walkway, you'll simply fall. Whether you land on solid floor or not, you're encouraged 
 you to think about where you want to go next and not simply run in any direction thinking the rest 
 will be done for you. Beware, though, as falling in water means that you'll have to restart from 
 the latest checkpoint  a task that can become slightly frustrating.
  
  The combat of Assassin's Creed is amazing, probably because how easy it is to actually do. To begin 
 with you'll simply to be able to use the basic attack, with a quick double-tap of the attack button 
 giving you a combo that results in a finishing move. This moves into a more cinematic camera angle, 
 and once again the graphics cease to amaze. As you progress, you'll unlock more weapons: a Short 
 Sword and Throwing Daggers in particular, as-well as the ability to counter and dodge. These introduce 
 another dynamic to the game, aside from the basic Long Sword and Hidden Blade. The latter is interesting 
 as it isn't a necessity for large parts of the game, but at the same time appeals to the playing 
 style of the player. You have the option to simply walk up to a guard and hold the guard button 
 while tapping, or holding, the attack button which results in a silent or lunge assassination. 
 Again, this forces you to think about how you approach the game.
  
  The game also has an engaging main storyline, albeit slightly repetitive, but there are also additional 
 missions that players can do. Players can discover View Points in the three cities, and these often 
 unlock further missions  Save Citizen missions. There are quite a lot of these in each city, and 
 force you to use all the elements in the game to your advantage. The good things about the Save 
 Citizen missions are that there are three elements: interrogation, eavesdrop and pickpocket. This 
 means that the missions are constantly varied and exciting, and cause you to think how to approach 
 each situation and what you think will work effectively.
  
  Also, each city includes lots of flags (as-well as the main Kingdom which you can explore outside 
 of the cities) . There are a hundred of these in each city and the Kingdom, and for people who want 
 to get everything in the game then this is a must. These flags are scattered throughout, and these 
 flags and the main storyline will easily add up to 40 hours or more of gameplay.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a game that is different, yet successful. It delivers on so many fronts, and 
 provides gameplay that is accessible to players or any age and any skill level. The graphics and 
 animations are superb, and are consistent throughout. Whatever platform you own, you have to get 
 this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipperytiger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The most gripping thing about this game is the immersive world constructed for your death-dealing 
 pleasure. The characters move realistically and the various folk in the crowds are not always there 
 to just get in your way, although that is what they do best. The graphics are quite amazing -- 
 realistic and fantastic at the same time. The washed-out color palette works as a modernizing brush 
 on the medieval setting. The controls for Altair are smooth and easy to use, with occasional hiccups. 
 You'll find that you can instinctively execute the batlle moves, but the climbing and roof-running 
 can yield unexpected results. This occasionally results in an unfortunate splat, but you're not 
 penalized too badly for it, so this is only a minor annoyance (and a pretty infrequent one) . The 
 story... is better than average, but only just. The exposition in the "real world" can take more 
 effort than it seems to be worth, especially since you can't interact nearly as much with the "real" 
 world as you can with Altair's world. These are minor quibbles, however, in an excellent and, so 
 far, one-of-a-kind game. Can't have it all, but this game almost does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdelli01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is one of those rare games that comes along every couple of years that excites 
 me as a gamer. I don't pretend to be hardcore and I certainly don't game every day. That said, 
 up until the game was released late last year I had followed this game's development very closely. 
 Even prior to any of the screenshots, the premise alone sounded intriguing: an assassin, cloaked 
 in white, armed to the teeth, sent to kill those who would selfishly profit from the perpetuation 
 of the Crusades. How cool is that? Then I saw some of the art, saw what the design team was doing, 
 and fell in love with the game. Mind you, this is well over a year prior to its release. Then came 
 the trailer... and I was in awe. Not long after, I purchased the game and absolutely loved every 
 minute of it. So, without further adieu, on to the review. First and foremost, the game is stunning 
 from a visual standpoint. The textures are smooth, the scenery is beautiful, the characters look 
 amazing and so do the cities. And speaking of the cities, they are vast -- extremely vast. I spent 
 hours just cruising through Jerusalem: listening to men preaching from stoops; climbing every building 
 I could; and -- pushing unsuspecting guards from the rooftops. Needless to say, it's somewhat difficult 
 to get bored of a game that has so much content, so many things to do. The game itself is pretty 
 linear if you choose to follow the storyline but there is definitely room to explore if you get 
 the itch. That said, certain areas of the game are blocked off until you complete the objectives 
 given to you so I wouldn't venture too far; it's more fun to be able to explore the whole map once 
 you've taken out the majority of your targets. Said targets are actually what keep the game linear. 
 In each city you will be given a high profile target to assassinate but not until you have culled 
 all of the requiste recon info and been given the ok by your superiors. Once you've been given 
 the go ahead you get to hunt down your prey in whatever fashion you choose; stealth is generally 
 the easiest way to go. You'll have nine targets to assassinate throughout the game and plenty of 
 guards in between. Other than that, the world is open for you to explore. In terms of controls, 
 I found them to be somewhat intuitive. After a while you'll find yourself switching between weapons, 
 parrying, and impaling enemies with ease. On that note, some of Altair's (the protagonist) cinematic 
 kills are stunning; he can be pretty brutal and he certainly kills with impunity. The sound is 
 another thing that blew me away in this game. When you're in the hustle and bustle of the streets 
 you can hear the pained mutterings of the indigent; the cries of the accosted; the insistent pitch 
 of the desperate street peddler; and everything else you'd expect to hear in 12th century Damascus. 
 When you're on top of a building, or better yet -- perched atop the spire of the church in Acre, 
 all you hear is the wind and the occasional cry of an eagle. It's breathtaking... truly. All in 
 all, the game can be a bit repetitive but that can be forgiven when you take into account that 
 everything else had nothing but the highest level of polish on it. This game is fantastic in every 
 sense of the word and the only reason I can't give it a perfect score is regrettably -- the repetition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  In this game you start off in Present Day and these Scientist take you into a Lab and they use 
 this Machine to see you ancestors and you play as his ancestor called Altair. Altair is a assissanator 
 that kills people because they are killing people just for money or the war. The gameplay is amazing 
 and the story is also awesome. You can kill anybody in this game but if soldiers or guards see 
 you then they will attack you. The most fun part of the game is that you can kill the leaders and 
 it is fun. 
  
  The good of the game is that the whole entire game is awesome and fun to kill everybody.
  
 
  The bad is really the Ending but I don't think it is a bad ending because there will be a second 
 one.
  
  Overall I rate this game 10 outta 10. If you are going to buy this game then you should because 
 it is really fun to play and kill almost anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo99210
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  At first I thought this game was a gift from God Himself. Amazing graphics. Great animations. Huge 
 sprawling cities. Killer sound effects. Stunning gameplay. Then... it happened. The repetitiveness. 
 Get ready to play the most mind numbingly boring game of your life. This game is AWESOME for the 
 first few hours you play it, but once you get to around the 4th or 5th assassination target you 
 have pretty much done everything there is to be done. By this I mean scaling a 20 story high church 
 steeple is amazing the first time you do it, but around the 18th it gets to be pretty lackluster. 
 Same with saving citizens. You feel pretty heroic saving this poor old woman from the evil guards, 
 but after hearing "Thank you for saving me. All the city will know of your sacrifice." about a 
 thousand times, it become more of a chore to save these people rather than an amusing side quest. 
 Then there can be some moderately cheap moments in the game, such as when I'm going to assassinate 
 a lone guard, and I'm about to use my hidden blade on him, a beggar steps right in between us and 
 I kill the beggar, lose synchronization (health) , and then proceed to go on a 10 minute chase with 
 the guard and 8 others who have randomly joined the fight. Another much to frequent annoyance that 
 happens is when you absolutely need to stay blended or 20 guards will be on your within seconds, 
 a drunk/mental patient hits you and you either can move forward without being punched in the face 
 or the guards see you and you have to go on yet another chase. Now you can also stand and fight 
 those guards, but that also becomes insanely tedious later on in the game after you have seen all 
 of those cool counter moves hundreds of times and your enemies are much more powerful. Overall 
 this is how I would break it down...
  
  
  Graphics-10/10
  The world is just gorgeous. Despite the 3 cities looking fairly similar, the world just looks amazing. 
 Altiar's movements and transitions between changing weapons and climbing structures is very smooth 
 and looks natural.
  
  Sound-9.5/10
  The city is alive and bustling and Assassin's Creed captures that well. The voice acting was very 
 good and the music really added to the intensity of the fights and chases.
  
  Gameplay-5/10
  Repetitive. Repetitive. Repetitive. Repetitive. Gameplay was okay once you got 
 past how cool it looked and you got sick of seeing Altiar punch yet another guy in the stomach 
 or stab another guy in the back. The investigation missions felt like a huge pain the the ***. 
 Pickpocket this guy. Beat up this guy. Sit on a freakin bench and listen to these guys talk. I 
 know I've been saying this the whole review and I'm sorry, but it gets old fast. The only reason 
 I was able to put up with this mediocre gameplay was because I got really into the story, which 
 is what I will talk about next.
  
  Story-10/10
  Very strong story and told just right. Assassin's Creed had its fair share of memorable moments 
 and had a great ending, which perfectly sets the stage for Assassin's Creed 2. Even though I couldn't 
 stand the gameplay, the story was the only thing that was able to keep my interest in the game. 
 There are some really cool plot twists that totally catch you off-guard and make the game worth 
 playing. 
  
  Value-3/10
  This is a definite rent. There absolutely no reason to replay this game, unless you just want the 
 achievement points and even then you can get most of them on your 1st playthrough. This is definitely 
 not worth $60 of your hard-earned cash.
  
  Overall-7/10
  The story was really cool and the game looked absolutely amazing, but unless you can get past the 
 mediocre gameplay, this probably isn't the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrabbit99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is an incredible game when you first get your hands on it. Running from rooftop 
 to rooftop, silently assassinating guards, and saving citizens, is all very fun... until you do 
 it for the hundredth time. By far one of the funnest things in the game is just climbing on top 
 of buildings ad seeing the living, breathing world at your feet. When you get down to that world 
 though, you'll see many repetitive things. Beggars all look the same, when you save a citizen they 
 all say the same things, all the thugs with knives wear the same outfit... 
  
  Although, the main point of the game is to just go through the list of assassinations that you 
 are given. After each assassination, a cut scene takes place and the story moves along, a new weapon 
 is given, and a new move. The gameplay all boils down to two things, climbing on buildings and 
 fighting. The latter is not done so well. You can easily get through most of the game by just doing 
 a counter attack, which when preformed the camera changes to a cinematic angle and you see Altair 
 pull off a stunning move. 
  
  The game overall is a spectacle to behold, but one that is short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtraneus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about this game is that you can basically get into it whenever you want and play 
 it for however long. The world is open for you to explore but much of it looks the same. You can 
 beat this game fairly easily and you should be able to learn all of the controls within the first 
 30 minutes of the game. This game takes probably around 10-20 hrs to beat.
  
  Although the scenery all looks similar, it is all beautifully similar; there is nothing that particularly 
 stands out to make each city look different, but at least it looks good. 
  
  Killing things is the meat of the game. Spend time here and see 1) how many people you can kill 
 at one time and 2) how many different ways can you kill them. 
  
  After this, story line isn't very interesting except for the beginning and possibly the ending 
 - there is a cliffhanger at the end which goes unresolved and may strike your interests for about 
 5 minutes. For the achievement whores, you can pretty much get an easy 800 pts by just finishing 
 the story. 
  
  In the end, I recommend this game to gamers that don't really want to think and just want to kill 
 stuff; Assassin's Creed is great for anti-rpgers.
  
  Rent it first. There is little to no replay value unless you must get 1000 pts, which is a waste 
 of time considering how many other great games there are out there.
  
  Piece. Out.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Assassin's Creed I was amazed at the game. I couldn't believe how 
 much fun it was, I could not put down the controler. I had an absolue blast climbing to the tops 
 of building and jumping off. I had a great time going around and saving citizens who were being 
 harrassed by the local guards. Pickpocketing people and eavesdropping in on their conversation 
 is just two more things that you will do while leading up to the ultimate goal of each level: the 
 assassination! Going head to head with guards and showing that my sword wielding was superior to 
 theirs. All this and more were the many emotions that I felt the first two days that I was playing 
 Assassin's Creed, but as the days went on the excitement began to wear off. That's what is wrong 
 with Assassin's Creed, the first half of the game is amazing but the second half of the game does 
 not introduce anything new, it's just the game thing over and over again and that is really disappointing.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed has interesting gameplay. There are basically two sets of actions. The first set 
 of actions is just normal ones. These are the ones that you want to use when you are trying to 
 be sneaky and not getting two much attention. You walk and you blend in. The second set of gameplay 
 is what you use when you are engaged in combat or are running away from the enemy. You activate 
 this by holding down the right trigger and a new set of control options such as sprint and attack 
 are available. There are different types of swords that you can use, but at the end of the day 
 they are all swords and they can't compare to the vast amount of weapons found in the Xbox's other 
 assassin game Hitman: Blood Money.
  
  Assassin's Creed does have some good looking graphics. It really feels like you are in the times 
 of Crusades and that you are in Assassin. The draw distance is quite good and the character models 
 are very good. The only problem with the graphics beeing this good is that between the cities there 
 are very long load times, which can ruin the experience of the game. The voice overs are also quite 
 good, except the people on the street say the same thing over and over agian and it gets quite 
 annoying.
  
  Assassin's Creed story tries way to hard. I did not enjoy it one bit. The story takes place in 
 the present and a character's ancestoral memory is being recalled, and thats when you play as Altair 
 the Assassin. I found the the game would have been better if they had just kept it all in the past, 
 because being transported to the present can also take you quite out of the game, plus don't even 
 get me started on the game's finale.
  
  Assassin's Creed is, like I said a really fun game at first, but once you get about half way through 
 the game I felt that it was just the same thing over and over again. I felt that all the side missions 
 were boring and they never offered anything new. I also felt that all the main missions (the assassinations) 
 are deep down the same thing over and over again. The mission structures were all the same, and 
 this is 2008 and this is not exceptable. There also really isn't much to do after you beat the 
 game anyways. If someone came up to me and said "Matt, I want to play a 360 game that puts me in 
 the shoes of an assassin. So Hitman or Assassin's Creed?" My answer to that would be Hitman. Hitman 
 has so many weapons and gadgets that you can use the game never gets old and I constantly found 
 myself playing the same levels over and over again, because I wanted to get a better ranking. So 
 do yourself a favor and play Hitman to death before you play Assassin's Creed.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 6/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Play assassins creed for 20 minutes and no doubt you'll be totally stuck into the game. Play to 
 halfway, and you'll no doubt be bored out of your wits. 
  
  Assassins creed is a brilliant and complicated game that requires skill, timing and a great deal 
 of thinking (for an action game anyway) . Its gameplay is brilliant, but after 10 or so hours, when 
 you get stuck in the grind of repeating the same stuff as always, it gets pretty boring. At the 
 beginning, as you learn new combos and moves and such, each new assassination gives a feeling of 
 accomplishment, but later as you simply get "new maximum throwing knives increased from 5 to 10", 
 it gets pretty dull. 
  
  Brilliant fighting scenes and daring assassinations are stunning, but it gets pretty easy once 
 you've mastered some sneaky moves such as: counter kill, dodge, grab break. Once these are mastered, 
 taking on 100 or so guards and easily surviving for 20 or so minutes in deadly fighting is a piece 
 of cake.
  
  Great storyline and gameplay make it an immersive game, but the constant grind for achievements, 
 investigations and running around trying to find view points is pretty boring about halfway. Cinematics 
 are brilliant and give an immersive experience, but these are few and far between unless you run 
 around recklessly doing just the bare minimum. 
  
  Still, overall this is a great game, but is still better to be hired, because the experience only 
 lasts for 10 or so hours before it becomes a bore. I'd give it a 10/10 for the first half of the 
 game, but in the end, with all the monotonous grinding, it only deserves a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keenti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game was really hard for me to like in the beginning. after doing the 3 first assassins i 
 felt like the game wasn't something for me. The game play was hard and i didn't understand much 
 of the missions and tasks that i had to complete. And i also think it was extremely boring to ride 
 the horse from city to city.. but after doing the 3 or 4 assassin the game is giving you the opportunity 
 to skip the horse. And as I was gaining my lost skills the game started to be really fun to play, 
 and much more easy. Almost too easy for a moment, but that's only until you get to the two last 
 fights and the final assassin then the game really show you its balls.
  
  everything considered its a good game that gave me a couple of hours of fun gaming, and if you 
 haven't tried it yet, i suggest that you do:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  I have to say, this game is done in such an amazing way. the visuals and the environment and so 
 very alive and beautifully rendered. you can jump from rooftop to rooftop. it makes things exciting 
 and real. the hidden blade is a great weapon that's sure to make you excited. the pace of the game 
 sometimes won't go as fast as you would hope, but that doesn't matter. you can basically climb 
 anything in the game you want. the leap of faith is what will get you hooked on the game. also, 
 the enemies are pretty tough to fight sometimes. only because there can be 5 that attack you at 
 once. the combat is hard to master as well. people attack you from the back, so it gets difficult 
 and frustrates me a lot. the controls aren't as simple as you would hope. but that's what makes 
 it great. so the game is actually pretty tough. it's a great game that I recommend everyone should 
 get. this is a gaming experience truly worth you your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopyed
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is oneof those games that when you start playing you're hooked although it's got 
 a mucked-up story-line to it.
  You are Desmond MIles, a Bartender who gets kidnapped to this labratory. The people who have kidnapped 
 you know that in your DNA you have got some hidden memories of your ancestor called Altiar, an 
 assassin in the 2nd Cusade. They have trapped you into this thing called the amminus which has 
 the abitlity to open them memories of your ancestor and control him. See what I mean by strange?!
 
  
  It has loads of gamplay until the story ends, (this is why I don't think this is the best game 
 I've ever played) you have to open the memory and watch the cutscrenes again! It also gets boring.
 
  
  Need some more characters so nrlftsjv ldsjkgiulwrf  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that let's you freedomly lets you find various methods to put in end 
 to your target's life. I can't doubt this game's mediocraty, but it's a pretty great game for sure. Are 
 story starts with Desmond Miles, a former bartender, was kidnapped by men and taken to Abstergo Industries, where 
 they use him for research on the Animus, due to his relationship with Altair Ibn La-Ahad (son of 
 none) , where the game takes place in the year 1191 A. D., who was stripped of his rank to the lowest 
 of a failing mission in Soloman's Temple. Since then, the master of the Brotherhood, Al Mualim, puts 
 Altair on an assignment to put an end to nine historical figures that plague the land with war 
 and misery. And you, who plays as the stealth assassin, must kill those nine people, but some of them 
 have dieed from many causes. Assassin's Creed has been known not only for it's graphics but it's 
 deeply designed environments. You have the oppurtunity to roam around four cities including  
 not only assassinte your targets but capture flags for an achievement if you have Xbox Live that 
 is. So when entering a city they're is a gaurd post, where you can either find some ledges and beams 
 to climb on to get past or blend in with a group of scholars. There are many things you can do such 
 as  on high view points, sword fighting, and eavsdropping. The 
 swordfighting is a great combat experience but breaking through not only requires fast button mashing 
 but counter attacking and dodging. More likely the hud feature that depends on your life is the 
 synchronization bar that increases by saving civilians, synchronizing on view points, and and staying 
 as anonymous as possible.
  Mostly if you cause to much havoc than you can notice the abstergo logo will easily blink red when 
 entering city, that shows the gaurds memorize you a threat and that makes your job even twice as 
 harder.
  Also if you don't feel like engaging in combat, you have a dozen oppurtunities to sit on the bench, blend 
 in with the scholars, hide in haystack, or pass through the vigilants to help you get through the 
 angry gaurds. There are a few complaints on beggars and depressed drunks, who could sometimes blow 
 my cover, but they could also throw rocks at you if you're climbing on buildings. The pounce assassination, by 
 jumping from a height not so great but close to the tarkget, is also fun to attempt if you got the 
 right skills though. The idea of jump on roofs have never been this fun, but the main problem is 
 mostly Altair can't climb any faster to escape the gaurds, or you have to make an accurate jump 
 to get to the next building. You have four weapons to aid you in your mission like throwing knives 
 if you want to kill people from a distance, sword in engaged combat, fist for interrogation, and my 
 favorite, the hidden blade for perfect assassination.
  
  Assassin's Creed has been in my heart as the most memerable game since before last Christmas Eve, some 
 overused problems but a game I'll be remembering later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expoet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed came right out of the block and dominated. With a franchise dominated be shooters, 
 this game proved that blowing the brains out of a guy doesnt make a good game..... I'm sorry but 
 it doesnt. 
  
  Let me start with gameplay, the most important thing in a game. The controls were super easy to 
 learn. A simple button press and your character will be doing something, another button press and 
 he will be something else, it was all simple to learn. The combat system was amazingly fun. The 
 fight were action packed, and the ways that Altair killed the guards, it was *shudders* brutal. 
 I absolutly loved it.
  
  Next lets talk about the graphics. This is a VERY nice looking game. The clothes move along with 
 the character, the water looks real, dirt flys in the air from the wind. You go into these HUGE 
 cities and if you climb on a tall building you see the city in all its glory. Its amazing that 
 every building can be interacted with. Plus if I may add, the blood from your victems stays on 
 your sword... just a cool feture.
  
  Some other things I really liked are, one; the crowd. It is amazing that each and every person 
 can be interacted with by bumping into them or whatever. Never have I seen a game like this. Plus, 
 you travel into this HUGE, I mean HUGE kingdom, to get from one city to another. Its just incredible.
 
  
  Do I have grips with this game? 
  Yes I do.
  
  First off, the game gets really repititive. Climb buildings, find investigation areas, kill some 
 guards, kill your assassination target, repeat. It just got boring after a while. 
  
  But repetitiveness does not even come close to making this a bad game. Ubisoft outdid it self, 
 this is probably one of the best games I've personally seen out of them. Assassin's Creed is a 
 definat buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  First off I just wanna say that the graphics and the fluide motion was just jaw dropping. I could 
 just set there and spin the camera around to see everything. I loved the free roaming of the game 
 and the interesting ways you can pull off your missions. There are several interesting missions 
 from stealing, ease dropping, and assassinating. Assassinating the targets is really cool but then 
 you have to run like hell because the whole town turns on you. The only thing I have to say bad 
 about this game is the stupid flags, my god there are so many and its so draining to go after each 
 one. So achivement lovers will probably hate this part of the game. And I must admit running frmom 
 town to town takes time and is taxing. But all in all I loved the game and still have some flags 
 to get. Its a must own for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swytnezz
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The game's storyline is very in depth, probably to in-depth for some to understand all of of it. 
 But I heard bad reviews about this game and I have mixed feelings about whether to get it or not 
 so I found it for $20 bucks, so I pick it up.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are amazing. The game barely has any back drop. Almost everything is reachable. 
 So in other words, this game is pretty detailed and big.
  
  Music: Sometimes it confuses me. I will be looking for flags in the middle of nowhere and dramatic 
 music comes on. (?????) Anyway it still pretty.
  
  Gameplay: This where the bad reviews come in. The fight style is extremely fun to learn and its 
 amazingly cool to see your first victim die in the most gruesome way. But the fighting style does 
 get repetative. So fun to play.
  
  Storyline: Honestly, I barely know whats going on. They throw so many foreign names in there that 
 I just play for achievements and fighting.
  
  Plus: I'm the type of person that loves finding anything and everything. So there is a lot of that. 
 So if your a go-find-this-item, you'll love this game.
  
  My Opinion: Which system is better? PS3 or 360? Well personally I was going to get this for the 
 PS3, but it was about $7 more than the 360 one. (???) Anyway I say the 360 anyway, because achievements 
 add a lot to this game. It probably adds about 10 hours and thats if you dont use the cheats online.
 
  
  Summary: Great game, lots to find, lovely graphics, great buy for $20. Much buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameo21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  assassins is one of the best games at first but eventually becomes repitive and feels like a chore 
 
  
  at first u start of at the top of the assassins order but on the first mission u do something wrong 
 and u get demoted to the botttom and u have to work your way back up to the top by killing these 
 9 people.
  
  there are also 3 main cities in total each with its own district ie. rich middle and poor. the 
 graphics and the visuals are amazing and the combat is original where have to wait until u can 
 counter your oppent or hack and slash .
  but eventually you will be doing the same things over and over agin like view pionts and the only 
 missions that there is is either listenig to a conversion interriogating someone andpick pocketing 
 someone also colecting flags and killing the main guys which is the biggest thing that lets this 
 game down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  After finally having the chance to play Assassin's Creed and reading some of the reviews here I 
 have decided that it was a time to take a stand and give my own few cents on the game itself. After 
 having to wade through more racing, fighting and shooting games as of the late a platform game 
 with an intriguing storyline and wonderful gameplay, Assassin's Creed is one of the best games 
 that 2007 has to offer and here is why.
  
  The biggest thing that truly makes or breaks a game is the overall gameplay. In Assassin's Creed 
 Ubisoft has done a remarkable job with everything. The fighting, the interacting and the exploring 
 are all well mapped out on the controllers. It only takes a few minutes for a gamer to get orientated 
 with all of the controls and maybe a little longer for a more casual player, but it's nothing demanding.
 
  
  The combat of the game is very well done. Being able to block and counter attacks, throw knives 
 at unsuspecting guards, dodging and having the chance the break your opponents guard are just a 
 small number of things that the combat has to offer. The best moments of the game occur though 
 when you stealth kill your opponents which is what the game is truly all about.
  
  Exploring the cities are fun and enjoyable with four huge ones available to you. Almost everything 
 is climbable in the game making it fun to mess around. Jumping from one rooftop to the next is 
 child's play and scaling the numerous view points are fun and some even provide their own unique 
 challenges. 
  All of the extra quests are also enjoyable such as killing guards to help citizens, finding flags 
 and killing templar all top the list on some fun things to do while or after you are done with 
 the game. 
  
  If there is another area that the game excels at it is the graphics. All of the textures and details 
 that Ubisoft put into this game are breath taking. The city of Jerusalem is probably one of the 
 best examples of this. For those that are really pick though there are some points in the game 
 where the physics engine doesn't exactly work with making your clothing go through some pieces 
 when you are scaling towers and building, but those are nothing compared to the true beauty of 
 the cities themselves. Also when fighting the blood that sprays when you get hits on your opponents 
 also look a bit cheesy considering how much more in depth they could have probably gone to make 
 it look more realistic.
  
  The biggest problem with the gameplay though comes in the form of repetition. There is plenty of 
 repetition going on throughout the game with gathering information, report, kill target, repeat. 
 This can get boring, but in all honesty all video games are based on repetition. The only thing 
 is that this may bother you more than others so test out the game before you actually start playing.
 
  
  Assassins Creed is simply put an "awesome" game. It's the kind of game that you will want to tell 
 your friends about, it has a great story combined with slick gameplay and a phenomenal world that's 
 ingeniously designed for you to explore and free roam in. If you are hesitant on buying this game 
 then rent it for a couple of days and try and complete it. But make sure to play it because it 
 is one of the most unique and imaginative experiences this year and is bound to thoughrely entertain 
 a large number of people.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent audiovisual presentation; good story; large cities to freely roam around in; 
 combat is a lot of fun; great voice acting; lots of side missions and extras to collect.
  The bad: The enemy AI is sometimes bad; the missions stay the same throughout the entire game; 
 the game has a bad ending
  I wasn't sure what to expect out of Assassin's Creed, but I happened to get it anyway. This is 
 the best game made by Ubisoft to date. This makes me wonder why more games aren't like this. This 
 is a very special game, and anyone likes action adventure games will be more than just impressed 
 with what Assassin's Creed offers.
  The main character you play as is Altair, an assassin assigned to kill nine different targets, 
 each in one of three different cities of the Holy Land: Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre. Each city 
 looks amazing, with tons of detail put into every object. Altair's animations look excellent, though 
 there are small visual glitches where his clothing can go through objects. The way the citizens 
 walk aren't as well done as Altair, but it's forgivable, considering that there are tens of thousands 
 of them. The cities both look and feel alive, and a big plus to that are the size of the cities. 
 The cities are absolutely huge, and there are lots of places to explore around. Simply wandering 
 around the city is easily the best aspect of this game. But the cities aren't the only places you'll 
 be traveling through: you can wander around the countryside where there are small villages, and 
 Masyaf, a large town where Altair is from. Everything in this game looks spectacular.
  
  Adding to the visuals is the audio. All the character's voices are excellent, even though Altair 
 does speak with an American accent. Every other character speaks in an accent that actually sounds 
 like their character should in the game. Not only is the voice acting great, but so is the sound. 
 From the clashing of swords to Altair's cloaks gliding through the air while sprinting down a street, 
 the sound is excellent. The story in this game is Altair is supposed to assassinate nine different 
 targets throughout the cities. Altair will have suspicions on why he has to kill these men, and 
 why they're leading their people in a certain way. The storyline is compelling, but the ending 
 is a bit disappointing. You do play as another character besides Altair, but I don't want to spoil 
 anything. I like the story, plus the audio really makes this game shine.
  
  As Altair, you will be able to explore these giant cities. You can climb up or on just about anything. 
 It's fun to climb to the top of a tower to just see the breathtaking view from above. You have 
 three different weapons: throwing daggers, a sword and your assassination blade. Combat is fun, 
 mainly because Altair's moves look awesome, but also the controls are so well done. There are many 
 guards around, and if you do something like kill a civilian out in public, they'll come after you. 
 There are places to hide, such as a pile of hay, behind curtains on top of a roof or blending in 
 with scholars. You do kind of have a trouble indicator, which blinks yellow when guards sense an 
 assassin in the city or red when they're coming after you. Combat is pretty basic: all you have 
 to do is wait for one of them to attack and do a counterattack. This may seem to get repetitive, 
 but Altair's awesome moves never really get old.
  
  The only really bad about Assassin's Creed is the mission design. Basically there is one assassin's 
 bureau hidden within the city. You go to it, and a comrade tells you three different locations 
 to find information on your target. There are only a few different ways of getting information. 
 One is by sitting on a bench near two men and eavesdropping on them, as they will be talking about 
 your target. Another is by pick pocketing someone for a letter on where your target will be. Another 
 is by waiting for someone to enter a dark alley and beat the information out of them. The last 
 one is finding an informant, who then challenges you to collect a number of flags or killing a 
 few people in a certain amount of time. Once you gather enough information, you find where your 
 target is and watch a short cutscene where your target is arguing with another person about politics. 
 After that, the target retreats back into a secluded place, and this is where you assassinate him. 
 You can either sneak in quietly or burst in and fight everyone. There's nothing wrong with this 
 formula except that it continues for another eight targets, and it gets repetitive. One thing that's 
 frustrating is when you're not paying attention to the locations on informants, you can't get that 
 information back, leaving you searching huge cities for a handful of people. There are also side 
 missions where citizens are being harassed by guards. The game won't actually take you that long 
 to beat, but it definitely is one of the best games of 2007. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I had mixed expectations of Assassin's Creed based on the guarded reactions it has recieved in 
 reviews, and I have learnt a lesson from this. 
  
  Specifically, this has taught me to ignore people who whinge about game endings or repetitive gameplay. 
 Whatever reservations I have about the game now that I've played it, it doesn't change the fact 
 that it's actually *gasp* an original, fun, well-made game swimming in a sea of unoriginal, insipid 
 games that I'm actually expected to pay money for.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a fantastic game which actually lets you do precisely what you expect - hide 
 in plain sight in the dusty bazaars of Damascus, perform acrobatic stunts to escape guards across 
 the rooftops of Jerusalem, and generally terrorise the militias charged with keeping the peace 
 throughout the holy land.
  
  The gameplay dynamics are incredibly simple to pick up, in particular because the game paces the 
 sensitivity of the AI according to your progress through the game. Rather than increasing the difficulty 
 of enemies, in effect, the game rewards your experience for understanding the difficulty curve 
 by requiring you to get further into character to confound the AI.
  
  Combat is button-mashingly simple, but it does the game does redeem itself to some extent by making 
 combat precisely one move more complex after each mission, and even if it's possible to turn your 
 brain off from time to time during swordfights, at least there are some hilariously gory animations 
 to be found in Altair's moves. 
  
  I've heard a lot of ambivalence in reviews about the story... to be honest, I loved it. While remaining 
 spoiler free: it was extremely simple, but also extremely elegant - particularly in the progressive 
 convergence of what starts as two separate stories (Desmond in the present day, and Altair in 1191) 
 and, in the last few missions, snaps together into a coherent plot that leaves you wondering about 
 how the sequel will be done.
  
  I've also seen a lot of dissatisfaction with the ending floating around... and I suppose that being 
 forewarned that the ending was open-ended means I was prepared... but to be honest, I really liked 
 the ending. A tip for those of you who do reach the ending, be sure to wait til after the credits 
 roll and explore a little more for some extra background info.
  
  The only real critique that can be fairly leveled at Assassin's Creed is the lack of variety. There 
 are two crimes here:
  
  1) As most of the reviews have noted, the ratio of busywork to assassinating is unfairly in favour 
 of the busywork. To be fair, I don't *mind* the busywork of exploring each city and gaining allies... but 
 I'd prefer to have more than 9 assassinations staggered throughout the game in reward for it. To 
 be fair, if you don't like the busywork, don't do it. That simple. It just makes the game much 
 shorter - probably less than 10 hours to finish if you did the bare minimum.
  
  2) While the urban environments of the medieval holy land are meticulously detailed, authentic 
 feeling and - most of all - sheer fun to terrorise or sneak your way through, it would have been 
 nice to see more variety in the levels - perhaps have to find your way through a crack in the city 
 walls rather than always through the same gate, or have to perform an assassination in a lonely 
 mountain hamlet rather than in the middle of Damascus.
  
  ... but really, those are hardly reason not to buy the game. Those are more pointers. Y'know, doing 
 my part to say, "Ubisoft, pay attention and make sure this success wasn't an accident... try and 
 repeat it by actually making more *good* games." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthunder26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  If you like action-adventure games or games that allow you to go around and kill people, then this 
 is the game for you. The game takes place back in Jerusalem, when the Crusades were about to begin. 
 You play as Altair the assassin and you and your "brothers" must go out and make sure that the 
 crusades does not take place at all. The game begins some where in the middle east (name will not 
 be given out because of spoilers) . Throughout the game you will be given several missions going 
 from assassinating your major targets to progress through the game, minor ones to help you brothers 
 out, save innocent citizens from cruel guards, and more. Definitely a game worth playing! now i 
 am going to hit the letter i for a long time iiiiiiii iiiiiii iiiiii iiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 iiiii i i ii i ii i i i ii i i i i ii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 iiiiiiiii iiiiii iiiiiiiiiiii iiii iiiiiiii iiiiii iiiiii iiiiiii iiiii iiiiiiiii iiiiiiiii iii 
 iiiiiii iiiiii iiiiiiiiiii iiiiiii iiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiii iiii iiiiiiii iiii iiiiiiiiiiiii 
 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zageroth
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  You follow the story of two people, a bar tender captured and test on by a scientist the other 
 story is that of an assassin named Altair. So you wake up in a science lab to find a scientist 
 and his assistant have been testing your memory with a device that can make you relive your ancestors 
 past doings. You agree to be tested on as you enter the memory of your ancestor Altair, who turns 
 out to be an assassin. You begin to relive a memory of Altair killing an innocent man. Because 
 of this Altair is stripped from his rank, skills and weapons as he must earn back the trust of 
 his fellow assassins and to get his skills and weapons back he must find and assassinate 9 different 
 men who have said to be plague bringers.
  
  the game play is slightly repetative as is the motion of what you do in each different location, 
 off hand if you were to play this game through all the way from start to finish, in one /two days 
 you would see why it can be dragged out. But if you, like me own a mulitude of games its worth 
 just playing he odd time and switching to different games change it up form just killing and repeated 
 violence, play a racing game or watch Red vs. Blue, then after a while (for arguments sake, say 
 a week) go bak to it and you'll be right back into the feeling of Altair's Quest for redemtion 
 and Assassination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmwm
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  When you first start playing this game the graphics will totally impress you. They are wonderful 
 and it is a great game to look at and play.
  But, once you start getting into the game, and have played it long enough to complete the first 
 few task, you will notice that it is exactly the same thing.
  Bringing the summary down, without spoiling the game.
  
  -Speak to a person
  -Speak to another 
 person
  -Either eavesdrop, interrogate, or pickpocket people.
  -Go back to the second person
  -Assassinate a person
  
  That is the same thing you do every 
 single mission.
  And even though the graphics are amazing, you will notice that all the different places are alike 
 the other one.
  At the time of writing this review you can pick the game up pretty cheap now, like I did, so I 
 would say go pay that small price. You will get fun out of the game for the price that you paid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willsi100
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  When you first start playing this game the graphics will totally impress you. They are wonderful 
 and it is a great game to look at and play.
  But, once you start getting into the game, and have played it long enough to complete the first 
 few task, you will notice that it is exactly the same thing.
  Bringing the summary down, without spoiling the game.
  
  -Speak to a person
  -Speak to another 
 person
  -Either eavesdrop, interrogate, or pickpocket people.
  -Go back to the second person
  -Assassinate a person
  
  That is the same thing you do every 
 single mission.
  And even though the graphics are amazing, you will notice that all the different places are alike 
 the other one.
  At the time of writing this review you can pick the game up pretty cheap now, like I did, so I 
 would say go pay that small price. You will get fun out of the game for the price that you paid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has a really innovative system that is awesome to look at but makes no **** sense. Yes 
 I can avoid the guard's wary eye by walking slightly slower, and yes of course I can jump from 
 30 stories into a pile of ****ing hay and live. WHAT? Let alone the fact that combat is ****ing 
 retarded, you can take on as many guys as you want since they attack drunkenly and one at a time, 
 and if you beat up more than 6 of them they all run away ****ing screaming.
  Not only are this games elements nonsensical and piss easy, they also repeat themselves for all 
 9 assassinations. Now this isn't to say that those elements aren't really fun and great to watch 
 but a) don't hold my hand the entire time and b) change it up a bit.
  ON top of that I think the plot is alright but maybe have a main character who isn't a ****ing 
 clone of every other main character ever? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair1337
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  n a console generation where budgets and production expenses can skyrocket into the eight figure 
 range for an even marginally high-profile title, risk-taking isn't quite as fashionable as it might 
 have been in the past. That's why it's so refreshing to see a game try something new. Unfortunately, 
 games that do take substantial risks are often marginalized or are developed for niche audiences, 
 which is what makes Ubisoft Montreal's Assassin's Creed so unique. Not only does it make several 
 significant departures from the standard action formula, it has all the flare and luster of a big-budget 
 blockbuster to boot.
  
  From the very beginning, Assassin's Creed makes it clear that it's not your typical action game. 
 On the contrary, it is a complex sci-fi adventure that blends elements of action, stealth and platforming 
 with an intricate plot that, like the game itself, will leave some impressed and eager for more 
 and others disappointed. It shouldn't be too hard for players to decide which camp they'll land 
 in, since Assassin's Creed will likely polarize gamers by revealing its major plot twist at the 
 very onset of the game. The game sports dual storylines, with the adventures of Altair, the Hashshashin 
 ("assassin") operative in the Holy Land during the Third Crusade in 1191 being just one of them, 
 and perhaps one of many more to come in the planned trilogy that begins with this installment. 
 The majority of the game follows Altair as he attempts to regain his honor and status as an assassin 
 following his failure to retrieve a key artifact early on in the campaign. To redeem himself, he 
 is tasked with the removal of nine men who are pivotal in the continuation of the Crusades.
  
  Altair's quests will take him throughout key areas in the Holy Land, which is being ravaged 
 by the Third Crusade. Three major cities of the time period are showcased, each with three districts 
 in them - one for each assassination. Within each district, there are flags to be collected, buildings 
 to be scaled and citizens to be saved from bullying guards. These are merely distractions, however. 
 The primary activities in each district involve gathering information about Altair's intended target, 
 and then carrying out the assassination itself. This is, surprisingly enough, one of the most disappointing 
 aspects of the game - the assassinations themselves simply aren't the high-point of the gameplay, 
 and tend to be hit-or-miss. The pre-assassination "investigations" are similarly uneven. Assassin's 
 Creed is one of those rare games that might have benefited from a slightly leaner campaign - it 
 simply doesn't have the variety to make nine assassination missions feel fresh. On the contrary, 
 most players will be tired of running through the motions of carrying out assassinations by the 
 time they reach the game's halfway point, which is about when the entire game world is opened up 
 for them to explore. Those who are not drawn to other games more to their liking will probably 
 spend their time focusing on Assassin's Creed's other diversions, and thankfully, there are many 
 of them.
  
  If one part of Assassin's Creed shines brighter than all others, it would have to be its platforming 
 elements. Since Altair is extremely athletic, he can perform acrobatic feats that border on the 
 edges of human ability, meaning that the rooftops of Jerusalem, Damascus and Acre are the ideal 
 place for him to do some medieval free-running. Altair can grab hold of nearly any object large 
 enough for him to secure a grip on, and from there, he can almost always hoist himself up beyond 
 it and then jump or swing to his next destination. Though only a few buildings present a real challenge, 
 there are many that can be scaled as part of an overarching side quest, and it's generally worthwhile 
 to do so. It's worth noting, however, that despite his abilities, Altair can be difficult to control 
 sometimes, and he will still goof up, though that's mainly due to the occasionally clumsy controls 
 that will send him unintentionally freefalling to the cobblestone below him.
  
  Nowhere do control issues become more readily apparent than in combat, which is an unavoidable 
 element of Assassin's Creed. Though free-running will allow Altair to escape almost any situation, 
 it's sadly not a means for him to skim stealthily across the cityscape until he can drop down on 
 his unsuspecting target. Many of the assassination missions actually require Altair to draw his 
 sword (or one of many other weapons that he carries with him) and duke it out with several opponents 
 at once, as do some of the game's optional objectives. On top of that, the guards are extremely 
 easily provoked, especially towards the end of the game. Simply walking too close can be enough 
 to make them - as well as any other comrades who happen to be in the area - turn hostile. Altair 
 can usually run from them and find a place to hide until the heat dies down, but these situations 
 will likely repeat themselves. Alternatively, the player can face them head-on, and despite the 
 constant numerical disadvantages he'll be faced with, Altair can prevail relatively easily, especially 
 once he masters his invaluable countering ability. Combat is a relatively simple affair, requiring 
 only proper timing and careful use of the thumbstick, but the most challenging part is simply using 
 the left trigger to stay locked on to an enemy, which can be very frustrating at times. Of course, 
 if hacking and slashing gets boring, there are also some more inventive ways to dispatch foes, 
 such as cutting through the supports for stands and outcroppings, sending them crashing down on 
 those below them, or luring the guards to higher ground and then throwing them to their deaths, 
 which is arguably the most fun to be had in the entire game.
  
  Even those that don't find Assassin's Creed to be all that much fun to play - though most that 
 approach it with the right mindset almost certainly will - must still stand in awe of its many 
 technical and aesthetic achievements. Not only is the gameworld beautifully realized from a graphical 
 standpoint, its general visual appeal is undeniable. Cities have incredible ambience, each with 
 their own signature look and hundreds of citizens swarming their streets, just as one might imagine 
 they actually appeared in 1191. Character and texture models are all up to par here in both detail 
 and accuracy, and the game engine's ability to display tons of objects and activity onscreen at 
 once is very impressive, but it's the way in which all of these things tie together to make a living, 
 breathing world come to life that's so remarkable. The only flaw in how Assassin's Creed looks 
 is the presence of a few minor glitches and anomalies (the kind that weren't intended as part of 
 the final release) that pop up here and there during cutscenes or on the shadows in the gameworld, 
 but even when taking these into account, the game looks absolutely stunning.
  
  With such mesmerizing visuals, the audio in Assassin's Creed had a very tough act to follow, and 
 while the game sounds nearly as good as it looks, there are a few minor issues that hold it back 
 from matching its audio to its visuals. The main problem lies in the voicework, which is mostly 
 good except for the tendency to repeat itself over and over (as many games do) , as well as the 
 weird volume issues that it runs into as Altair travels through the streets, leading some citizens 
 to sound distant and odd. The big problem, though, is with Altair himself. While the actor voicing 
 him doesn't do a bad job, his performance isn't all that great, either, and at many times comes 
 across as lifeless and flat, which makes it stand out in stark contrast to the rich and energetic 
 world that the game creates. Nonetheless, consistently high-quality sound effects and an above 
 average soundtrack round out the game's sound, and as such it remains one of its stronger elements.
 
  
  While the somewhat daunting main campaign may cause many to stray and lose their interest, Assassin's 
 Creed has other safety nets to catch them with. Xbox 360 gamers in particular will have tons of 
 achievements to unlock here. Scaling all of the viewpoints in the game, executing a certain number 
 of foes with Altair's hidden blade, collecting all of the flags in a certain area or roaming the 
 massive countryside that separates the major cities of the game doing all of the above and looking 
 for the occasional mano-el-mano duel with one of the sixty formidable Templar Knights scattered 
 across the map are all fun pursuits that will draw in players and keep them hooked for hours on 
 end. The gameworld presented to them, as dynamic and interesting as it is, is the extent of what 
 Assassin's Creed has to offer. There is no multiplayer to be found here, nor is there any real 
 conclusion to the game, just the implication of an increasingly probable sequel. How much replay 
 value the game has will vary depending on the player's preferences. Those just interested in playing 
 the main storyline and not paying attention to everything else the game has to offer will probably 
 finish the game in 12-15 hours and never touch it again. Those who are drawn into it, however, 
 will easily play beyond the 20 or 30 hour mark on a single playthrough, and may very well opt to 
 dive into the game all over again.
  
  Attempting to summarize or categorize Assassin's Creed within the scope of a single review would 
 be an exercise in futility. It is a rare example of what happens when a developer makes a serious 
 effort to try something new - an end product is created that does indeed score points for originality, 
 but does so at the expense of the mass market appeal that straightforward crowd-pleasers have. 
 While there's no denying that Ubisoft has created a quality title to begin its new franchise with, 
 the question of whether or not the game is fun will boil down to individual preference. Assassin's 
 Creed will likely land in the company of other games that some underwhelms some players while others 
 are intrigued and enthralled. Hopefully there will be enough of the latter to ensure that Ubisoft's 
 planned trilogy becomes a reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLouisXVIII
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was probably one of the most hyped up games of 2007. It was to be the new example 
 of cutting edge technology, with mind-blowing graphics, incredible physics and a superb combat 
 system. But was it? Well, in some ways, yes. The graphics were very nice looking, and a lot of 
 time was clearly invested into the combat system, making every move interesting. But apart from 
 that, the game wasn't worth the hype, and there were a number of gaping holes in it.
  
  First and foremost, more attention seems to have been paid to climbing up tall buildings and jumping 
 into piles of hay than actually killing your targets. I was expecting a host of imaginative ideas, 
 like poisoning food, setting traps, hiding under various disguises, and sabotaging buildings. But 
 I was disappointed on all grounds. There is one, and only one, way to kill your target, by sneaking 
 up and cutting their throat. Actually, that's not fair. You can hit them from rooftops with throwing 
 knives (no bow available) or just run up and slash them to death with your sword (I found that 
 method most reliable) . 
  
  There are a grand total of 9 missions, which I thought was pretty abysmal, when you think that 
 GTA IV and Oblivion actually had MORE assassination missions, two games in which assassination 
 is simply a side quest beat a game in which assassination is the main and only purpose. Research 
 has to be conducted before each killing, a task I found mind-numbingly boring, but one which you 
 can make longer by completing tasks which don't need to be done.
  
  The game wasn't all that bad, though. I have to admit that the stealth killings look awesome, and 
 the way that Altair (your assassin) can climb practically anything is also very good. The combat 
 is a step forward from the usual button mashing action, each move is different, and all weapons 
 have their own different attacks. It's a shame that there are only 4 weapons available to you, 
 I hope that in later games, the choice will be increased slightly. 
  
  So, after a few weeks of playing, I reached a conclusion about this game. It has the potential 
 to be incredible, groundbreaking. Built on cutting edge technology, with next generation graphics 
 and gameplay, it has all the characteristics of a truly legendary game. Unfortunately, though, 
 the makers have spent too much time on making the game look and feel good, that they haven't actually 
 made it good. Take a game like Oblivion. The combat system wasn't fantastic, every move was practically 
 the same. But there was a huge choice of weapons, limitless possibilities, the main storyline was 
 but a tiny fraction of what the game had to offer. 
  
  It wasn't like that with Assassins Creed. The game lacked something, like a hotdog without ketchup, 
 like a house without windows, something was missing. So much time had been invested into making 
 the physics of the game cutting edge that the storyline was bland, repetitive and too short. And 
 once the storyline was over, that was it. There were no side quests, no guilds, no loot to collect, 
 no skills to raise, a very limited choice of enemies to kill, and nothing apart from a few easy 
 achievements, most of which you will already have picked up over the course of the storyline.
 
  
  My own Assassins Creed disk was mutilated beyond repair due to an accident with my 360, and I can't 
 say I miss it terribly. I've heard that there is a new game on it's way, which is to follow on 
 from the cliffhanger at the end of the first game. Rumor has it that Assassins Creed 2 will be 
 set in the far east, perhaps Japan. That sounds interesting, and hopefully the people in charge 
 will invest less time in attracting customers than actually keeping them.
  
  This is definitely a game to rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Socrates
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of my favorite games of 2007. That's not to say it doesn't have its faults, 
 but the game is certainly a strong contender in a market with some great games. Reviewing this 
 game is difficult, because it's hard to dissect this game into its core parts and explain what 
 you do. The great thing about Assassin's Creed is almost not the game itself, but the feelings 
 it provokes.
  
  That said, something you probably want to know is that this game is a 50/50 chance of being just 
 a rental. The game is short and has limited replay value, but this is one game you won't mind your 
 friends playing at your house. This is a game you want to share.
  
  Pros:
  -Assassinations: Making the kill in Assassin's Creed is fantastic. Every assassination in the game 
 is great, and the perfect assassination will be something the thinking gamer will try to find. 
 Even assassinating city guards is satisfying; every time steel hits flesh in Creed, you'll be a 
 happy camper. The feeling of power one gets at being stealthy is somewhat like satisfying an almost 
 vampiric bloodlust.
  
  -Combat: If assassinations are satisfying bloodlust, combat is a feral rage. Sometimes, the kill 
 just doesn't turn out the way you planned, but your assassin (named Altair) is trained to be a 
 warrior. Combat is empowering; you feel almost like a god at the defeat of even the weak opponents. 
 Power kills and counter kills have detailed animations that make killing your foes great fun.
 
  
  -Interface: The interface in Assassin's Creed is perfect; each button has two types of commands 
 mapped to it (low-profile and high-profile) . Low-profile commands are acts that can be performed 
 without garnering the attention of the masses, while high-profile commands will get you noticed 
 by the city guards. The game controls perfectly, and you'll always know what you need to do to 
 keep the story moving.
  
  -Story: This game is in dire need of a sequel. Both plotlines, the Altair plotline and the modern-day 
 Desmond Miles plotline are fantastic, but give the largest cliffhanger known to man. That, or it 
 explains exactly what's going to happen, and if it does, that's the most terrifying ending to a 
 game I've ever seen. This game will make you do research just to see how much this game holds to 
 truth, and you'll see it's pretty accurate. Every assassination is of someone who died in 1191 
 A. D. (the year the game takes place) , although those who died weren't necessarily killed by an 
 assassin.
  
  I can't even begin to talk about the plot of the game; experience it firsthand. Please. You won't 
 regret it.
  
  -Platforming: Those who have played the Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time know how much fun it 
 is just to move around in that game, and it's easily just as much fun in Assassin's Creed. You 
 can spend hours just climbing around the cities of Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem. Jumping around 
 and not accomplishing anything hasn't been this much fun since Super Mario Sunshine.
  
  -Completionistic: Those who love to beat a game 100%, this game will reward you. The achievements 
 reward it, and the game is designed to be one of those games you want to do everything you can. 
 Squeezing the last of the fresh juice out of the ripe orange that is Assassin's Creed is a great 
 experience, and it's a challenging one at that.
  
  -Graphics: This game is a masterpiece art-wise. If games were reviewed by the most breathtaking 
 screenshot you could take, this game would have been Game of the Year. Damascus is beautiful and 
 lively-looking with its warm color scheme, and screams Arabian Nights. Jerusalem is a bright and 
 sunny place with its green-based design... in fact, it's just bright enough that it's a little like 
 the candy house in Hansel and Gretel; I for one don't trust it. And Acre is a depressing location 
 with its cold colors, clearly meant to show the oppression of the British Crusades.
  
  -Sound: All the performances are fantastic. Every main character has a great voice, and performs 
 it well. One thing this game does have that Grand Theft Auto doesn't is life in the city. Every 
 locale sounds like more than just cars driving by, and instead sounds like a real city. People 
 mumble through the streets. Beggars believably run up to you and beg for coin. When you start to 
 climb a building, the people in the streets actually comment on it. When you make a kill, the citizens 
 do more than scream and run away, but also try to point you out to the police. Supporters of Richard 
 the Lionheart and Saladin ramble on about the righteousness of their great leaders. Everything 
 is perfect in Assassin's Creed performance-wise. Weapons sound the way they should, and overall, 
 the sound is strong.
  
  -Share: This game is a good experience to have with friends; after you beat the game, watching 
 a friend play isn't a dull experience. This is one of those games where after you beat it, you'll 
 want to lend it to everyone you know.
  Cons:
  -Repetitive: Performing reconnaisance for the assassinations consists of performing one of about 
 four types of missions. These missions, although fun, are almost exactly the same every time. It's 
 kind of disappointing, but if repetitive games don't bother you too much, these are well done. 
 Meanwhile, with most of these, you really won't mind having a chance to perform it a little better 
 than you did last time.
  
  -Low Replayability: Assassinations are awesome the first time, but other than going for a perfect 
 stealth kill, there's not much to do after you beat the game. Causing chaos in the city is fun, 
 but that's about all there is to do once you accomplish every mission you plan to.
  
  -Short: If you manage to keep yourself from getting distracted and play the bare minimum, the game 
 is at maximum about ten hours. This normally wouldn't be a problem, but the game also has low replay 
 value. If you're a completionist, you'll get a lot more out of the game, but the rest of the crowd 
 will be done with it after playing it once and getting some other achievements.
  
  -Weird Glitches: There are some weird things that can happen in this game. I'd rather not go into 
 it (trying to remember a good example is hard) , but you'll see what I mean. That said, this isn't 
 a major con; this is something that'll bother a few people, and that's it.
  
  Overall: A masterpiece in gaming that you'll remember for a LONG time. However, you'll probably 
 only play it once, or MAYBE twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  It all starts off with this guy having dreams of being an assassin in the medieval days. But when 
 he wakes up he's in the future, and is in a experiment because of what his ancestors were. The 
 journey begins of remembering his past, and ancestors past.
  
  In the campaign your assigned to kill different people in 3 different cities. But, you can only 
 travel to the cities that he remembers or parts of the cities. The more he remembers or the more 
 progress through the game, you get to travel to more of the places and see many things. 
  
  When you get assigned to kill someone, you have to get intelligence about the target, just like 
 any other assassin. But, the ways to get the intelligence is by helping people, for example, helping 
 the poor and the sick, by killing the guards that torture them. Other ways are eavesdropping on 
 peoples conversation about your target. The last way is to pick pocket people that have orders, 
 or list the places that they will be at, at what time.
  
  The weapons you get are exactly what an assassin needs. First, is the wrist blade, for stealthy 
 attacks. Second, is a short blade, good for counter attacks and also good for killing. Last, the 
 throwing knives, very effective for medium range attacks, for example, you could go to the top 
 of a roof and kill a guard without anyone knowing who did it or why they did it. Also, good for 
 helping those in need of help.
  
  Overall this game is a great game for a person that likes stealthy games, or just likes being in 
 the medieval days and seeing how their lives were back then.
  
  I say from my experience if you think you should get this game, it might not have multiplayer but 
 this game is certainly a good campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinchenzot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I have nothing else to write so the rest of this is crap.
  edfghrtgheds
  htd
  bgdfsg dfsbdgs
  geds
  gdfsgsdxth
  dfs
  hetsdhgb
  fdsh
  gfdg
  df
  gdfg
  etdhf
 
  hdfg
  hdr
  fh
  dfg
  dfhdfh
  hfdhfdfdh
  dfhf
  hh
  fd
  hfdhdfhfd
  dfhfdhfd
  hfddfhdfh
  fdhdf
  hfdfh
  d
  fhdfdfhfd
  hdfhdhd
  hdhd
  hfhfgdfghgd
  
 dfhdhhgddfhdfhgd
  fgdhdfhdfdfh
  hdhdfjfv
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  eg
  fd
  fgs
  ffg
  fg
  dfg
  fdg
  fgd
  fgd
  fdg
  fgd
  fgd
  fgd
  fgd
  fdg
  fdg
 
  fg
  fg
  f
  fgd
  dfg
  dfg
  dfgfgd
  dfg
  fdg
  dfgddf
  dd
  df
  dfd
  fd
  fd
  f
  df
  d
  f
  fd
  df
  
  df
  d
  fd
  fdf
  df
  d
  fd
  fdf
 
  d
  fd
  fd
  f
  d
  f
  f
  dfdf
  fd
  dfdfDFdFdfdfdf
  df
  df
  df
  
  df
  f
  fdf
  d
  fd
  f
  d
  d
  d
  
  
  
  df
  
  df
  fd
  df
  df
  
 df
  df
  df
  fd
  f
  fd
  dfdf
  
  ki
  li
  iik
  ik
  ik
  ik
  ki
  ki
  ki
  ki
  kik
  iik
  ki
  ki
  ki
  ik
  ki
  ik
  
  v
  hh
  hn
  hn
  n
  nh
 
  nh
  nh
  nhnhnhnh
  hn
  hnh
  nh
  nh
  nh
  v
  vfcvc
  vc
  cv
  cv
  cv
  cv
  cv
  cvv
  cv
  cdf
  fd
  fd
  fd
  f
  f
  df
  fd
  df
  
  fd
  dfdf
 
  f
  d
  dfdf
  
  df
  df
  fd
  df
  fd
  df
  df
  fd
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: odesyess
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I truly love everything about this game. The player movement is fluid and flawless. The environments 
 are large and fully accessible, detailed, truly a sight to behold. The list is endless, and I get 
 exhausted thinking about it so just take it from me, everything but this fundamental flaw is the 
 bomb.
  
  The side-missions and/or mini-games fundamentally lack dimension. After you've performed a pickpocket 
 for the third time, you expect the complexity of that mission to change, or for there to be that 
 perfect mix between variety and just enough repetition. There is indeed a variety of different 
 side-missions but they are a small set, and they play almost identically just in different cities.
 
  
  It is always a bad thing when well before half the game is over, you have seen the entire repertory 
 of side-missions, and but for figuring how to get to a particular viewpoint or assassinating a 
 main target there is almost no variation in player action. This begins to dampen your motivation 
 over the course of the game, and will utterly kill its replay value.
  
  But on balance, I have to say there are some very good things in this game and you will find no 
 other game quite like it. I'm looking forward to a sequel, as it is very likely that they will 
 improve upon this flaw, and make Assassin's Creed 2 live up to the promise of this new franchise.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narak13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I really can't see what assassins creed did to justify the piles of semi-liquid **** most gamers 
 seem to have thrown at it. I've never even seen a review that said it was this bad.
  
  The main reason for the turd targeting seems that it is believed that the game was over-hyped and 
 didn't deliver on what it promised. This i don't get as it was sold as a total free-roaming sneaky 
 run around bollocks with added murder. And that is what i found. The cities are all different enough 
 to make them interesting and the story works well.
  
  Incase you don't know the game is about the great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great grandson of an assassin who is forced to relive his grandads memories so the 
 evil ****heads can take over the world or buy pie. This sounds like a science nightmare (it is) 
 but it works as a story device. Also the story jumps on the Da Vinci code band wagon to hook you, 
 but jumps off to avoid the mountainous piles of crap. Its story is original and kept me interested.
 
  
  The games main problem is that it is a bit repetitive. The games main problem is that it is a bit 
 repetitive. The combat (swordplay and sneaky back-sabby stuff) is simple button mashing and once 
 counter attacking is unlocked is piss. Yes the infomation gathering side quests are the same every 
 time. The games other problem is once a target has been shived up the arse a long death speech 
 occurs. While helping the story a great deal it doesn't make sense, as the've just been stabbed 
 in the neck (or something) .
  
  The fact is though assassins creed has immersion on its side. It sucked me in so i didn't mind 
 so much. The only thing that a want to ram the dev's dog up his arse for is the beggars and leppers. 
 They run up to you in the street and i don't care how realistic it is. it was the worst idea the 
 dev team had.
  
  So although this points out a lot of flouts non of them ever stop the game been intereting, fun, 
 original etc. These are the things that make a good game so with a bit of polish this could of 
 been fantastic, but its just great.
  
  (nb the flag collecting can **** itself in the ass, it was a pointless addition which was just 
 there for 360 achievement sake) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gredenko
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  El juego tiene muy buenos grficos, es buena su inteliguiencia artificial, la estrcutura es fenomenal. 
 Tambin hay que admitir que el entorno del jugador es buenisimo!!!!!! Ming esperaba a sus amigos 
 a que llegaran al partido de Inglaterra contra Bulgaria de ftbol 
  Ming: Dnde estarn, el partido ya va a empezar? 
  Ratimiun: si vale que irresponsabilidad. 
 
  Nikki: hola Cmo han estado en todo el verano? 
  Brian: hola Ming, hola Sr director Qu hicieron en todo el verano? 
  James: hola loco Ming, 
 ya viste que estoy vestido
  Ming: claro pues de nada mas y nada menos de equipo de Inglaterra.
  Ratimiun: claro vengan no 
 debemos llegar tarde 
  Comentarista: hola damas y caballeros espero que estn cmodos en sus asientos hoy es un bello 
 dia los jugadores ya van a entrar en el campo de juego. 
  Nikki: Inglaterra va ganar de eso no hay duda 
  Brian: pues claro como van a comparar las estrellas 
 de Inglaterra: Beckham, Ronney, Gerrald, R. Ferdinand, Cambell entre otros. 
  Comentarista: bien el partido ya va a empezar 
  Inglaterra en el primer tiempo Inglaterra marco 
 un gol de Ronney con pase de Beckham. 
  En el final del parido Inglaterra la gano a Bulgaria 3x1 
  Ming: si ese es mi equipo 
  Ming 
 y sus amigos estaban en el estacionamiento y de repente la gente salio corriendo como loca un ejercito 
 pequeo de unas 18 personas, estaban como agrediendo a la gente 
  Ratimiun: vayan, vayan corran hasta sus autos rpido! 
  Ming y sus amigos corrieron pero entre 
 personas Ming fue desviado el corre pero tropieza y cae al suelo, cuando se levanta una persona 
 lo tropieza con la canilla en la cara y lo deja inconciente por varias horas 
  Luego Ming se recupera pero cuando ve al cielo ve algo pintado "la nueva bveda de los seguidores 
 de Chalenger es el refugio de ellos, enemigos de Chalenger Carrer en piensen a rezar" cuando Ming 
 ve al frente ve un tipo parado el sujeto corre hacia el, Ming se levanta rpida mente pero cuando 
 oye la voz de James, Brian y de Nikki el sujeto escapo 
  James: oh Ming te hemos estado buscando por horas Dnde estabas? 
  Ming: yo, yo estaba inconciente 
 all 
  Luego salen dos oficiales y ven lo que esta escrito 
  Oficiales: ustedes Quin fue que ha escrito eso con un avin
  Ratimiun: oficiales no han sido 
 ellos! 
  Ming: oye Ratimiun los que estaban agrediendo a las personas eran seguidores de tu ya sabes quien 
 
  Ratimiun: si ellos eran 
  Oficiales: vamos por aqu 
  Ming: haba un hombre parado all
  Ratimiun: un hombre Ming quien? 
  Ming: no se era muy oscuro 
 para identificarlo 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Luego en la casa de los Pitt ese mismo dia, Chalenger Carrer estaba planeando otro ataque a: car 
 auto sports, Ratimiun, a Ming y sus amigos
  
  
  
  
  Chalenger Carrer: la bveda ser el refugio perfecto para hacer nuestras artimaas no lo cree 
 Sr Thinson
  Thinson: o claro Sr Chalenger 
  Chalenger: si y acabaremos con el muy odiado Hctor Domingo, que dicen mis camaradas 
  Y los 
 camaradas de Chalenger Carrer aplaudieron 
  Luego en el Car auto Sports apareci un nuevo profesor. 
  Ratimiun: sean bienvenidos a otro ao 
 en Car Auto el profesor Anthony ha sido expulsado del colegio llevado a prisin y condenado a muerte, 
 pero no hablaremos de eso hay un nuevo profesor para esta materia el profesor Bruce Nolan suerte 
 profesor 
  Todos aplaudieron 
  Bruce: gracias profesor Ratimiun y les pido una oportunidad para darle clases hijos mos por que 
 estoy abierto para cualquier duda, curiosidad, se que mi atuendo no es el adecuado pero as me 
 vistieron desde pequeo, algunos dia no voy a estar por que tendr unos compromisos de cantantes, 
 tambin quisiera pedirles un favor ha el equipo de autos exticos que hablen y le den confianza, 
 apoyo y un lugar en el equipo a mi hijo de 18aos Hamilton Nolan 
  Ratimiun: ya oyeron al profesor denle un espacios, buenas noches pueden ir a sus dormitorios 
 
  James: que profesor tan extraudinarimente raro a que si. 
  Nikki: ni que lo digas como vieron ropa rara corredor un hijo de 18 aos 
  Ming: si claro ese 
 profesor es 100% abierto. Ja Ja que risa me da 
  James: tal vez ese profesor tiene como un. Positivo en su mente
  Ming: ese profesor tiene pinta 
 de pavo 
  Nikki: si se viste como muy a la moda 
  Brian: ese profesor debe ser esos que viven en un barrio pero al dia siguiente caminan con dinero
 
  Al dia siguiente les tocaba con le profesor Bruce a primera hora 
  Ming: vengan hay que ir a clases del profesor Nolan 
  Nikki: ya voy 
  James: creen que el profesor 
 este en clase 
  Brian: claro 
  Luego bajando en la clase hay un accidente el profesor tiene a un perro como de mascota y la profesora 
 Liliana un gato, entonces estn los dos condenados animales corriendo por los corredores 
  Brian: justo lo que yo estaba buscando
  Nikki: que cosa 
  Brian: bien como el profesor y la 
 profesora esta dando vuelta por el castillo yo me ir a desayunar 
  Ming: si claro yo te sigo 
  James: no veo Por qu no? 
  Nikki: bueno yo los alcanzo mas tarde 
 yo voy a ir la librera 
  Nikki fue a la librera a averiguar sobre esa bveda y se alarmo sobre lo que ley pens que si 
 las circunstancias eran ciertas este pudiera ser unos de los aos mas terribles, Nikki fue a decirles 
 a Ming, James y a Brian 
  Nikki: muchachos, muchachos fui a ver en la librera sobre la bveda es terrible 
  Ming: oye 
 mujer no nos atormentes voy a vomitar la lasaa que me com. 
  Nikki: no te va a pasar nada escuchen la bveda Chalenger Carrer o mas conocida como la bveda 
 misteriosa es el refugio mas seguro de este villano, segn a los fugitivos que la polica lo a 
 puesto en prisin para entrar e hace faltan 6 chips mas una contrasea que solo Chalenger Carrer 
 sabe no hemos tenido mucha informacin sobre esto, ni se sabe donde esta esa misteriosa bveda 
 
  Brian. Reflauta! 
  James: saben ser mejor que tengamos mucho cuidado este ao 
  Ming: Por qu no vamos a tomar aire fresco y olvidarnos de esto un rato 
  Nikki: no me parece 
 mala dia vamos 
  Bruce: oh condenado perro deja de perseguir a ese condenado gato 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonilee
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, let me just say, is great. In it you play as a guy who's name, I do not know. 
 But you are kidnapped by scientist who put you through a life-simulator where you go back to the 
 12th century to do thieving quests in Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre. In the life simulator, you 
 play as Altier, a master assassin who has been stripped from his rank into an apprentice and must 
 fight your way back to a super-awesome thief. The questline is pretty cool, and so are the abilities 
 you have to complete them. You can sneak, jump, steal, eavesdrop, and climb everything you see 
 in the huge living world. The cities are more alive than all the GTA games put together. There 
 are civilians that walk around and react to everything you do, like real people. Beggars will even 
 follow you around and grab your knees begging for money (Just push em' outta the way) . The stealthy 
 feeling through the game is great, from sneaking up on guards and killing them with your hidden 
 blade, or jumping from the top of a building into a haystack to stay hidden from people.
  
  Controls are sharp, as is the gameplay. Also, graphics are really, really good, but has a few visual 
 problems. The sound is done amazingly, with good sound effects, voice overs, and music to feel 
 like your in some kinda church fest, with action, or something. To round it all up, Assassin's 
 Creed is a really good game, but I just didn't think the story was too straight, it was pretty 
 confusing at times, but this is one of the very little amount of flaws. This game is a must-have 
 for any PS3 or 360 owners, period.
  
  -BiG D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan285
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Assassins creed. This game has it all. Graphics, gameplay, story, riding pretty horses, stabbing 
 people, climbing, more climbing, stabbing people, riding horses. Ok so the bottom line is it's 
 repetive. But you will at least get three good hours of playing out of this before you start to 
 realise that it's repeating it's self. For me this game was great but you have to take in all the 
 complaints of this game being seriously repetitive (sorry for the bad spelling) After four hours 
 of playing I seriously thought my machine was broken and was playing the same level over and over 
 again. But on the other hand..... YOU CAN JUST STAB RANDOM PEOPLE! Which is seriously fun. I can't 
 even remember how many times I saved it and just went on my own little rampage I mean it's just 
 plain fun. So buy AC if you and your friends just want a laugh stabbing people :)
  
  
  
  Or not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CameraSkunk
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The game at first glance is excellent, smooth and eye catching graphics with good voice acting 
 to boot. The addition of a good interface made for an interesting start. This being said the fight 
 sequences becomes old fast. This 'stealthy assassin' can't avoid simple patrols that only strive 
 to slow down the plot and prove to become an ever present nuisance for continuing the game play. 
 Extremely long travel time between cities increases the annoyance especially when coupled with 
 the ever present and apparently all seeing/knowing foot and mounted patrols.
  
  Though not in line with personal taste, I would suggest the game to players that would not mind 
 the drawn out time between story pieces and ever present battles with the guards. The quality landscape 
 rendering is worth a look at the very least and enjoys an impressive 360 view at many points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegablades77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a good game that puts you in the middle of the third crusade in 1191 as an 
 expert assassin. While the controls for the game are nice and smooth you may find it rather too 
 easy to do some combos or counter attacks. The graphics are good for any system and is fun playing. 
 When you get through the story once it may not interest you to play it again. While there are some 
 hidden things in the game for you to do the replay value is pretty low you may want to play it 
 again to see or understand something you missed or didn't get with the game. Assassin's creed brings 
 something interesting and what I have never played in a game before is the cinematic viewing when 
 there is a cut-scene you can push a button and it will show you a different point of view that 
 you would not have been able to see earlier. This game is very attractive to people that like the 
 Hitman and Prince of Persia games, because it brings aspects from both of those to the game. How 
 to kill the target in anyway you want aspect of Hitman, and the acrobatic and maneuvering system 
 of the Prince of Persia games. So hopefully you will enjoy this game the first time enough to keep 
 it for any possible future playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grigjd3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has got to be the most visually stunning game I've seen in a long time. What's 
 more, it has game play that let's you feel like a complete bad ass, hoping between tops of buildings, 
 dropping down in an alley and slowly working your way to the person you need to get information 
 from. Oh did I mention you can fight off like fifty well armed soldiers in this Crusades era romp 
 through the Holy Land. I have to believe that they spent months, perhaps even multiple years developing 
 the game play to make it work so well and so easily. The game feels awesome to play.
  
  Now for the negative. If you're playing the game and you fell like this encounter with soldiers 
 is no different than your last 78 encounters, (parry, parry, counter-attack, parry, parry, counter-attack) 
 that's because it is. The challenges are inherently monotonous so that by the end of the game, 
 you really have a muscle memory of how to take out these next twenty soldiers. What's more, I understand 
 the story has been developed in the way it has in order to set up the other games in the trilogy, 
 but the pacing of the story is absolutely ridiculous. I tried showing this game to some of my friends 
 and I had to spend over an hour and a half just getting to the general game play (which is primarily 
 what makes this game so good) . For a title that does so much good, Ubisoft sure seems to want to 
 put me through hell to get to it. 
  
  Recommendation, if you can deal with the excruciating length of the introduction and you like the 
 idea of being a bad ass assassin sent to kill prominent figures in historical sites like Damascus, 
 then there is absolutely no reason not to buy the game. On the other hand, if you like to get to 
 the game quickly and can't stand drawn out cut scenes where all you do is sit and watch, you might 
 just try renting this some weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjo_123
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Trust me this game is good you really feel like you are an assasin. You have to get info on your 
 target then get your target but the bad part is every begining of a mission you have to start from 
 your base and go to a destination wich you mostly get lost but after you complete the first couple 
 of missions its an auto you just ride to a checkpoint and pick a destination. You can climb on 
 building and places that really you wouldent really think you could. The only flaw well it isent 
 a real flaw but combat which is done by one button which you just mash and mash but you learn combos 
 which look awesome stabbing your sword all the way through your opponent and seeing his blood fly 
 out the back and its awsome so its a 10.0 and it is awesome because there are so many shooters 
 and this is just something new which is great so go and get it its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeTALrockeR41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is very repetitive and the ending sucks but other than that the game was pretty good. 
 The game is almost to easy.. block, attack, block, attack.. and you must do the same types of missions 
 over and over and over again. And what is with the cliffhanger at the end i mean OMG i was so pissed 
 when i saw that.. but despite those defects it was an alright game.
  
  i didnt hae enough words 
 
  (The gameplay is very repetitive and the ending sucks but other than that the game was pretty 
 good. The game is almost to easy.. block, attack, block, attack.. and you must do the same types 
 of missions over and over and over again. And what is with the cliffhanger at the end i mean OMG 
 i was so pissed when i saw that.. but despite those defects it was an alright game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukanot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Like halo 3, this game is over-hyped. Sure it was a good game, but not what everyone made it out 
 to be.
  
  The good:
  - Vast environments gave you a sense of freedom. You could run around villages and beyond. It was 
 quite fun. 
  - Nice graphics. Clean looking textures made this a nice game to look at. The buildings and villages 
 always had a golden brown sun hint to them which was nice. One of the games which stands out on 
 the 360 graphically.
  - You can climb up all sorts of things. Any ledge of any kind was climable. Again, this gave you 
 a sense of freedom. Something which is hard to find in a game. Most games are linear in their gameplay, 
 but this isnt.
  
  
  The bad:
  - Nothing special. Just another overrated game. Its good sure, but why its considered so good is 
 beyond me. 
  - Robotic people who walk in the villages isnt very realistic looking. The whole thing about, 'stumbling 
 and falling over things to make it seem realistic' is not pulled off good. Running into people 
 will just flunk up. You have tomplay it to get what i mean really.
  - Enemies/guards are very annoying. One thing goes wrong and the mindless ***** come after you. 
 Your not always looking for a fight, but you will end up in one for pretty petty reasons. (Punching 
 someone will result in them murdering you with their swords, lol)
  
  
  I'd recomend this game because it is good, just overrated. If your into the whole action/adventure 
 thing, then this is a must play. 
  weeeeeeeeee im done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElemenceMan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Great game overall to play. From the high definition graphics to the smooth controls this game 
 will have you hooked in an instant. The tutorials are very specific and the controls are not hard 
 to pull off. The game ends up putting the user in control of nearly everything around you. There 
 is no repetitive life loss, no glitching, and the whole map is completely free-roaming. Even when 
 you just want to jump from rooftop to rooftop to pick pocket a few fools you can. You can tick 
 of some guards by running into them and stumbling before they chase you. You can hide in haystacks 
 and small places to avoid them and watch as they run by you and ask people on the street where 
 you are. The best is when you are just randomly jumping on structures and people walking on the 
 streets are saying things like "if he falls and hurts himself, I'm NOT going to help him". As far 
 as the biblical story and whatnot, I'm agnostic so I don't really care but it still draws you in 
 because of the whole assassin plot. This is the best game I have played all year. I rate it 10/10 
 and hope there is some sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomaster007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  this game is truly a modern day classic it sets an example for all open world and sword fighting 
 games that should be followed. The open world is fairly expansive and allows plenty of fun if your 
 ever bored and want to mess with some virtual peasants, guards, beggars, brutes, or shop keepers. 
 notice how i was able to form a list of the types of npc and not merely a generic npc that merely 
 looks different there is a variation in behavoirs here that add a more natural feel here than in 
 most open world games, also even when you are screwing around in the open world you never feel 
 disconnected to the story even when you're not trying to you are always acheiving something and 
 having an impact on the game world. the difficulty is also perfect the combat is formed so that 
 you will always feel a slight challenge, even when you have mastered, but even the worst players 
 won; t be overwhelmed, the combat requires quick relexes, observation, and an oppurtunistic attitude, 
 such as watching twenty guards at once to see who will attack you first, attacking the man who 
 i pucking cause you just sliced his budies shoulder off, observing who the leader is so you can 
 kill him and watch souldiers courage fade away, these are just a few of the moments that are by 
 no means exceedingly difficult but always let you feel like a master of the sword 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is more than a worthy title being that it combines classic stealth play and redefines 
 the steel-to-steel swordplay in this instant classic which portrays such unique techniques compared 
 to the Prince of Persia titles.
  
  Gameplay:
  Simply amazing. The amount of swordplay mixed in with brilliant combos and unique stealth manuevers 
 to outsmart your foes is just astounding. The platforming is another great aspect this game offers, 
 introducing fast-paced platform hopping that seem to outdue even the Prince in technique and finesse. 
 Combos and counter-attacks are brutally honest and can become quite addictive as you progress in 
 the game.
  
  Graphics:
  A step up and advancement in the next generation Ubi-Soft games. The character models are nicely 
 portrayed, and the texture popping isn't frequent as other games which is good. Some of the environments 
 are breathtaking and offer a real overview on how lifestyle and landscapes were in the days of 
 the Crusades. Character models are indengeniously detailed and textures on clothing and weaponry 
 are impressive as well as immersive.
  
  Sound:
  To be quite honest the sounds are remarkable as well as memorable. The voice acting is superb, 
 although seeing as Altair doesn't have his ancestry accent can tend to leave something to be desired 
 but it is a pet peeve at the most. Music as you travel can really offset the mood and tone the 
 game is trying to ensue, as well as vicious sounds of bones and organs being ripped as you impale 
 enemies with your deathifying blade.
  
  Control:
  At first the controls are complex, but once you get used to the counter and combo system, they 
 become second nature. It took my about 30 minutes to get a feel and understanding to take down 
 foes with ease, but overall the controls are tight and highly responsive.
  
  Overall:
  If there was an award for best intuitive and immersive platforming swordfighting action game, this 
 would win hands down over anything that has yet to be released. If you enjoyed the Prince of Persia 
 games then you will more than certainly enjoy Assassins Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebrwnrobot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft's creation Assassin's Creed is simply amazing. Going back in time and seeing these heavily 
 populated, liberated Holy Land cities could be just as rewarding as seeing the detailed marketplaces, 
 harbors, mosques, and view points contained in Assassin's Creed. As the game begins, you're imprisoned 
 in a containment cell in which you enter the "Animus" which lets you live through your ancestors' 
 memories. As Desmond Miles, offspring of Altair, you enter the Animus and play as a renegade assassin, 
 Altair who belongs to a society of men much like him in the city Masyaf. You are directed to assassinate 
 9 men by the leader of the assassin society. These 9 men actually lived during the Crusades and 
 were died due to unknown sources which makes the game even cooler. Every once in a while, you're 
 redirected back to September 2012 with a doctor and his protege Lucy. This game's ending is no 
 doubt strange but with some internet research you realize it is really interesting and sets up 
 pretty well for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apawalsh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Assassin's Creed it brought something completely different to the gaming world. 
 However, I was disappointed that it was so easy and very brief. It was also quite repetitive having 
 to do the same sub-missions over and over to complete the main mission. The level of detail that 
 could be acquired from the sub-missions made the game just that bit more interesting though. It 
 would be great to see a fusion of this with the stealth of something like Hitman or Splinter-Cell.
 
  
  The story was very complex and it was interesting to watch it unfold. It was like a jigsaw puzzle, 
 it kept giving you hints and you could almost see what was going on, but not quite. Not until the 
 last puzzle piece was played, anyway.
  
  The fighting system was quite interesting with a variety of finishing moves to use. Which made 
 getting into a fight fun, however, there could be more weapons to utilise.
  
  
  Brilliant concept, could do with some work. I look forward to the follow up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfCrunks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  The game sets you as a protagonist that is subject in an experiment that involves the theory that 
 genes and DNA have memories that you can harness with the aid of expensive and high tech looking 
 machinery. To cut a long story short, you can go back in this machine to the year 1191AD as an 
 assassin during the Crusades.
  
  What bowled be over was the sheer amount of detail and the size of the kingdom. There are 4 cities: 
 Masyaf ( the assassins Hq) , Damacus (The arabian centre) Acre (the caucasian centre) and Jeruselem ( 
 which was a melting pot of cultures) all of which have there own feel and atmosphere which is great 
 because your experiencing a freshness in each city.
  I thought the ability to climb most walls and buildings was fantastic makes the getaway scenes 
 unique in the game world.
  
  A downer on this game is that after the first 1 or 2 kills, the game seems repetative because all 
 you do is investigate a person via using methods that you've used many times before in the game 
 and killing the target.
  The nine people you have to kill in the game are all the same difficultly andgets boring after 
 a while. The graphics amkeup for this somewhat because it coastantly amazes you and the feeling 
 of realism is fantastic.
  Overall: The graphics are the best i've ever seen in a game of this grandeur, the characters are 
 deep and interesting and the AI like crowds are really good. The downside is that the mission structures 
 are identical and repetitive and you can't really replay the game properly because you can't save 
 the progress in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistergoggles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  So Assassin's Creed lived up to it's hype. The game is what everyone knew it was going to be. Obviously 
 the best feature in the game is the way you're able to move around the environments. Hehe.. and 
 you're able to go almost everywhere in the maps. It's AMAZING. There are very few glitches here 
 and there, but over the entire thing is truly amazing. 
  
  This freedom lets you do missions and quests pretty much anyway you want to. You can sneak your 
 way in and that works just without much trouble. Fighting is a bit of a let down and feels way 
 too easy sometimes. All you pretty much have to do is smash one button at the right time and boom, 
 you kill him instantly.
  
  The controls do take some getting used to, but you'll have them down in less than 2 hours. 
  
 
  Presentation is awesome. The graphics are some of the best seen to date. Towns and cities feel 
 alive with the incredibly large amount of different characters walking around and it's amazing 
 to see their reactions when they see death. The voice over is great and the music really gets you 
 in the moment.
  
  ...
  
  The disappointing parts of the game are few, but you'll feel them. 
  
  There's a big plot twist 
 that enough to run the game for a few people. 
  
  The biggest flaw I found in the game is the tasks and quests you're given..
  
  They get Repetitive 
 and Old after getting halfway through the game. The story is what's going to get you through most 
 of the game and you might be a bit surprised by the ending. After you've pretty much finished it.. 
 there's no real reason to go back for a 2nd round. 
  
  But don't let that stop you. Assassin's Creed is one of those games all gamers, over 18 years of 
 age, should try out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seany13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is a brilliant game that takes place in the holy land in the middle ages. you play 
 Altiar a master assassin of the creed which is a big group of assassins. your weapons are a long 
 sword, short sword, throwing knives, fists and the most important weapon is the hidden blade that 
 you use to sneakly and quickly kill a gaurd, this is a good way to mess around and have fun. you 
 dont have to do the story you can just kill gaurds and jump from building to building. if you love 
 this one then just wait for the next one its going to be even better. there is a great story line 
 that will hook you instantly. if you cant buy it then rent it or borrow it just play it its amazing. 
 the only down fall about it is there is no multiplayer or online play because that would have made 
 it amazing and simply fun. doing the leap of faith from extreamly high places and survive by leaping 
 into a hay stack is very fun and it also hides you from the gaurds. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniac600
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that I've played through several times, and I must say, it ahs kept 
 me coming back. No matter how many times I do a particular mission, assassinate a target, or climb 
 a certain building, I can always find something to do. 
  
  In the game, you play as the ruthless and somewhat insouciant assassin, during the era of the third 
 crusade. The setting takes place in the holy land, which is basically a region encompassing 4 cities 
 in Israel and Syria: Masyaf, Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre. The assassin you play is named Altair, 
 and he trained in the ways of the Hashshashin to kill his targets in any way he can. 
  
  The cities in this game are literally HUGE, and once you have gained access to all the districts 
 in each city, it takes a good 10 minutes to cross it. However, another plus is that you can go 
 nearly anywhere in the game. Climb a tower? Sneak onto a docked ship? Break into a Templar military 
 camp? No problem. Chances are, you can do it. 
  
  The Combat in this game is amazing. In addition to Altair's hidden blade, your assassin can also 
 use his sword, throwing knives, or dagger to dispatch of his enemies. The combat is violent, intense, 
 and gets your heart pumping. Rest assured, if you enjoy some medieval combat, you will enjoy this 
 game.
  
  The graphics of this game are simply breathtaking. You can look over entire cities, and there is 
 no backdrop: all of it can possibly travelled to. There has been careful consideration given to 
 details, and even the buildings look like real buildings, not just models meant to give your character 
 something to climb.
  
  Now, it's time to explain why this game isn't a 10.0. First, the gameplay. For the most part, this 
 game will not get old. You gather information, run from and fight off soldiers, travel the holy 
 land on horseback, and assassinate special targets. However, around the last two 'stages' of the 
 game, the gameplay will be somewhat repetitive. It isn't old or tedious, but you will basically 
 know exactly what you must do and there won't be too many surprises left waiting for you until 
 the end of the game. 
  
  Also, there is one more thing... the end of the game can get somewhat confusing, and will raise 
 many questions. Not only does it end abruptly (you most likely won't realize it's over till the 
 credits start rolling) , but it will also make you want more. This game will most likely have a 
 sequel, and after completing this game, you may feel somewhat unsatisfied if you're an impatient 
 individual such as myself.
  
  Other than these minor flaws, the game is superbly put together and will definitely become a permanent 
 part of your collection. If you decide to get the game, I can guarantee you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_268
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  When a game like Assassin's Creed comes out I rush to the stores and make sure I am one of the 
 first ones to complete it. Needless to say, this one just didn't do it for me. You play as Altair, 
 one crazy-impressive assassin with an attitude. Altair is interesting but the game feels as though 
 it leaves Altair behind and focuses on the environment more anything. Yes, the environments are 
 interesting for me, normally they can make or break a game, but you also need substance as well. 
 
  
  At times Assassin's Creed just seems that you are playing through the motions, collecting information 
 through series of timed events, killing your target, and taking the long journey back to your master. 
 It gets boring. Only towards the end do you actually feel the unpredictability of the game. That 
 is if not collecting information is unpredictable. Also, the foggy loading screen is such a blatant 
 cover-up that it doesn't even work.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a forgettable experience. Unlike other reviewers, I just don't "feel" the game. 
 It could've been great, just it doesn't deliver for me. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game has got to be in my top 360 games of all time, just getting this out of the way ;) . 
 The game really brings a lot of new stuff to the gaming world. With its more realistic horse riding 
 :P, and a story that you find yourself thinking about , even when your not playing the game!
  
  Models: The models of everything in this game do seem very life like in some cases. The models 
 of the people how ever do seem a little mmm 
  down graded from other games. Thats just the people walking around in the cities that is. The guards 
 and main characters look amazing. The areas that your in just are mind blowing. 
  
  Controls/AI: The controls for AC do need some time to get use to. But, once you'v played for a 
 couple of hours or mins you get use to them. Now for the AI in this game it really is just to touchy. 
 If you bump into a guard or a citizen, the guards might hunt you down. That brings me to my second 
 point for controls. You get these throwing knives in the game, and when you are fighting the guards 
 or trying to kill a certain person, it might miss and hit a citizen. This does get bothersome during 
 the game since the guards come and attack you. 
  
  Story: The story for this game was great. It was just so mmm creative. Come on a man goes back 
 to the past as his ancestor, which is an assassin :P. Now the story goes a little dry once you 
 get into a bit more, but then it just picks right back up with surprising elements. I still think 
 about this story from time to time, it is just that great in my opinion. 
  
  Thank you for reading, and we are all looking forward to the second one ;P.
  MC Out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdevils420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  most games i will buy, play for 10-15 combined hours and get stuck or get bored and from there 
 it just gets dusty on my bookshelf. 
  
  This game kept me interested from start to finish. I have probably s [ent about 35-40 combined hours 
 playing it over several months... and never once did it get boring! One fo few games that kept me 
 into it from first time playing to after beating it (going back to collect flags)
  
  Near perfect game with amazing environment, which almost all of it is interactive. 
  
  The 
 skill level is fairly easy... the fighting gets progressively harder throughout the game... but never 
 to the point where you get stuck and want to smash your controller into the tv. A few of the objectives 
 i gave up on after trying 10+ times... but none of them were necessary to either finish the game 
 or get all of the achievements
  
  
  Highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digeratess
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game has so many amazing and novel elements, and it's quite well done as far as the quality 
 of individual elements goes. It just doesn't come together for me, though. I can't get into it, 
 and I'm dying to. I actually put in the hours I did very soon after it was released, so it's been 
 awhile since I played it. I'm hoping next time I have nothing to play I'll pick this up again and 
 be enthralled.
  
  I have wondered from the beginning if all the glowing reviews are just people easily wowed by novelty, 
 because this game has plenty of that. For me, playing this game is like going to a movie that should 
 have been good, that had all the elements -- great actors, great story, great director, big budget -- but 
 it just wasn't good.
  
  It reminds me of how I felt playing Indigo Prophecy -- another game I should have loved but didn't 
 and never did.
  
  I would also like to say to the people who came up with the 800-character minimum that anyone who 
 believes brevity in any way indicates poor quality has no business making any policies regarding 
 writing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1leaf8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed, You play as Altair, an assassin in me devil times. you have to investigate 
 and assassinate 9 targets (or so they say at the beginning...) . With it's outstanding con troll 
 scheme an storyline, it is a great game. In reality you are actually a person in modern times that 
 was kidnapped and put into a machine called the Animus. In it, you have to unlock all of his memories 
 of his ancestor, Altair. It is a great game overall, and some of the best game play I've seen from 
 a game in a long time. The way the game ends just makes you know that there just has to be a sequel.
 
  -1leaf8- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  In Assassins Creed you will play as Altair, an assassin hired to kill people of great power in 
 order to save the lives of innocent people. The story may sound simple at first but its actually 
 very very complex. Im not going to really get into the story because i dont want to spoil it for 
 you guys, but lets just say that it gets better and better as you progress through the game. 
 
  
  To start, this game looks amazing! I mean, its detailed down to every last brick on the road. The 
 people move very realistically considering that usually hundreds of them walking around the streets, 
 and the shadows and lighting effects are very well done. Even the animations are great! Your character 
 moves with incredible realism as he jumps between rooftops and scales up talll buildings. The overall 
 look of the game portrays a sort of dark, and depressing mood. The skies are always gray, and none 
 of townspeople ever seem to be happy. The environments can be somewhat depressing at times.
  
  Aside from the amazing graphical department of the game, the controls are also nearly perfect. 
 Ive never felt more comfortable with the controls in a game as much as the controls in Assassins 
 Creed. It seems almost effortless as you scale these insanely high structures. I do have one small 
 problem though, occasionally your character will ignore your command to jump, and just falls off 
 the side a building. Other than though, the controls are really crisp.
  
  The best part of this game would have to be the combat. As you progress through the game, the guards 
 will become more and more familiar with you and therefore will begin to chase you, which forces 
 you to either run or fight. If you choose to fight, you could take down hundreds of enemies in 
 one battle if you have mastered the combat. Fighting basically consists of perfectly timed slashes 
 and counterattacks. It really is satisfying to counterattack somebody because the camera turns 
 to slow motion and Altair performs a cool series of attacks. 
  
  Although this game may seem perfect due to its great graphics and gameplay, it has one huge flaw: 
 REPETITIVENESS! Oh this game can seem so painfully repetitive at times. Almost the whole game consists 
 of investigating your target and then assassinating him, and then traveling to the next location 
 to repeat the same process. The assassinations are always fun, its just the investigations that 
 lead up to the assassination that bore me to death. It would have been so much better if they at 
 least made it so you perform different tasks for each investigation, or at least add something 
 in to stop it from being so repetitive. 
  
  If you can look past the repetitiveness and just see the game for what it is, you will enjoy this 
 game a lot. I mean, its not entirely horrible to do the investagations, its just well not always 
 fun. I would have given this game a lower score, but the ending was amazing to me and it really 
 madee the game feel complete. Plus it hints at an obvious sequel that should be pretty epic. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics:9
  Concept: 8
  Replay Value:7
  OVERALL; 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cube_of_MooN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a fun game-that point cannot be understated. It contains a detailed and immersive 
 world in which so many different things happen, from political speeches to beggars hassling people 
 for "just a few coins." The game's main three cities-Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre- are each divided 
 into three zones, the rich, middle, and poor sections. Each section contains the appropriate feel; 
 the buildings ranging from tattered to well-kept, the people ranging from well-dressed to others 
 dressed in torn clothing, though the divisions seem too concrete to be real. 
  
  The game's main story revolves around the actions of the main character, Altair, an assassin. His 
 goal is to restore his former rank and honor in his society of assassins, honor which was lost 
 for his actions during the game's tutorial. The flesh of the game revolves around gathering information 
 about each of the nine men Altair is assigned to kill. This information is gained in a variety 
 of ways; these ways being informants (who always have a mission before they fork over the information) , 
 eavesdropping, pick pocketing, and interrogations. This on the surface may seem like an interesting 
 variety, but by the fourth or fifth target the information gathering stage becomes repetitive. 
 These missions almost become a chore, as the actual assassinations are far more exiting and interesting. 
 It truly is too bad the assassinations take up such a small fraction of the time spent playing 
 the game, as they are by far the most exciting part. 
  
  Each city also has a decent amount of side missions, but these only come in three forms: saving 
 citizens, lookout points, and flag gathering. The save citizen missions involve a person being 
 arrested by guards, and it is up to you, Altair, to save them from their tyranny. After killing 
 five or six guards, the mission is complete. Seeing as there are roughly fifty or so of these missions, 
 after a while they too become monotonous and more of an errand. The viewpoint missions involve 
 scaling high towers and getting a view of the area, which will mark missions on the map. Climbing 
 up the buildings with Altair's amazing climbing ability is satisfying and an amazing gameplay element, 
 even if like most missions in the game it becomes less and less exiting after a while. The flag 
 gathering missions are the typical "x items are scattered across a large area, collect them all" 
 missions, and are passable.
  
  One of Assassins Creed's strongest points is its combat system. Altair has four main weapons, not 
 including his fists, and each fits a certain purpose. The stealth blade lets the player kill without 
 attracting attention (hence the name) , the sword for fighting out in the open, the short blade 
 for taking on many enemies at once (though the sword works just as well) , and throwing knives for 
 taking out distant enemies. Altair can also gain many abilities, though combat truly does become 
 much easier once the counter ability is gained, perhaps too easy. The counter ability is essentially 
 a gambit: the player must time the move correctly, which if successful allows for an insta-kill 
 or knockdown, but if timed wrong, the player is certain to be hit by the sword strike. It is an 
 interesting risk-reward move. The combat only becomes difficult near the end of the game, where 
 many more guards attack and more skillful ones are more numerous. Even then, I personally only 
 died in combat maybe five times throughout the game.
  
  As far as stealth goes, there is a meter which tells the player how hidden he/she is. It ranges 
 from anonymous to seen and under attack by guards. When seen, the main goal is to break the line 
 of sight of the guards and hide, which can be difficult at times and easy at others. However, it 
 does seem a bit ridiculous when the Altair runs around the corner, sits on a bench with his head 
 down, only to have the guards run by, they never noticing the man they chase is right in front 
 of them. And the guards have the amazing ability to completely forget who they were chasing ten 
 seconds after losing sight of the player, which again, stretches realism to the point of breaking.
 
  
  Truly, enough praises cannot be sung about the game's presentation. Everything is beautiful, from 
 the scenery itself to the animations. It is obvious that presentation was high on the priority 
 list for the game's developers, and it shows. The execution animations are displayed brilliantly, 
 leaving a satisfying feeling afterward. The blood and gore level feels at an acceptable medium. 
 To be totally honest, everything feels real, which seems appropriate in regards to the game. 
 
  
  The game's sound is equally as impressive. Sword clashes sound very real. The voice acting is simply 
 astounding, save for one character, Altair, as his voice is rather flat and unemotional. Speeches 
 can be heard in the distance, the general background noise of the city is present, and even the 
 little things sound perfect. One peeve I had with the game's orators is that they only give one 
 speech and one speech only, save the story related characters.
  
  The game holds little replay value. After playing through it once, there seems to be no need to 
 do so again, and this is most likely due to the game's repetitive nature. Thus, I feel that the 
 game deserves only a rental. It lasts roughly twenty hours or so, depending on how many side missions 
 are done. The game is solid, and I certainly do recommend it to anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob8hiscow
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game. It's got a wonderfully animated world with some great crowd AI/interaction 
 to fill in the space. And when a crew working on a game does a great deal of historical research 
 to get the places and such as accurate as possible, you know the game's got to be worth at least 
 a rent.
  Upon starting the game, you'll be slightly confused as to what exactly is going on. After you realize 
 that you're playing a piece of dormant memory tucked away in your DNA, the game becomes rather 
 interesting. Running around, bumping into people, playing stealth "lookit me imma ninja" for a 
 while, and -- most noted of all -- climbing around on buildings and similar objects is fun for a 
 long while. Even after you thought it would wear off, you can just pick off an innocent person 
 or two and have fun with it while the guards chase you. (You know, "just so you can test your evasive 
 skills." Which roughly translates to: you got bored. [already?!] ) Well, nothing good lasts forever.
 
  Luckily, just when you think you've had enough fun with the gimmicks, you get a new weapon or 
 move or something. Something that makes it fun just long enough until you get your NEXT weapon. 
 And repeat.
  The story is pretty good -- don't get me wrong. When your main objective is to go out and assassinate 
 some nine corrupt figures in a baffled society, so long as you put some thought into it before 
 tossing it onto a shelf and telling the world you've got a great game, it's hard to make something 
 like that into a turd-of-a-game. The only thing that starts to cook my noodles is that the storyline 
 only progresses as fast as you want it to. You take longer, the game could get boring before you 
 get to the next step (which, as mentioned earlier, would keep your interest and attention) . On 
 the other hand, if you just do what you're told and "git 'r done," then you'll have a hard time 
 losing interest.
  Overall, the graphics are gorgeous, the sound is amazing (try walking around in the cut scenes 
 and rotating the camera -- see how that comes out of your stereo/surround speakers!) , the story 
 is good, and most of all, the gameplay is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kekei-Genkai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story itself is different because it has a combination of fictional modern technology and very 
 old unspecified time period. You play a character who's been taken against his will by an organization 
 benton finding out about your character's ancestry. Your character's ancestor's ancient name is 
 Altair, an assassin who works with a brotherhood who believes that thousands of people can be freed 
 with the death of a few bad people. His DNA is read through a machine called the Aenemis (sp?) . 
 You play the character of Altair who's the best at what he does in the brotherhood, but dishonors 
 himself for thinking he is above the creed and committing an act against what the creed believes 
 in. He begins the game attempting to reclaim his ranks and abilities, and liberate the cities of 
 evil men and their horrible plots. Cinematically, the game is great as well. Voice overs are done 
 very well, and nothing seems played or corny. I warn you ahead of time though, the ending is... wierd.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  There pleny of action and enough room for the imagination when it comes to combat, but the real 
 fun actually comes into play when it's time to run away from gaurds. The environment is full of 
 places where you can make and improvise an escape. There are times when you get so caught up in 
 the action of getting away, it almost seems like a movie. Leaving plenty of room for creative getaways, 
 and a decent and realistic combat system, there is one main aspect of the game that brings it down 
 a notch and that is... repitition. You may be following a different enemy and trying to gather intelligence 
 on your target, but it's basically the same routine throughout the game. Climb high places, eavesdrop, 
 pick pocket, persuade by force, occasional challenges by fellow bretheren of the creed, and the 
 final kill. I've just summed up all of the major details about the things your suppose to do to 
 get through the game. It repeats this over and over again. The great thing about the game is the 
 fantastic scenery and the ability to get to just about any place you can see. If it looks like 
 it's climable, you can get there.
  
  Overall:
  This is a game that you should buy if you love to play a game all the way through no matter what 
 it takes. If your a person who is easily entertained but once you see an obvious pattern can't 
 take it anymore, then rent it first. This game goes through a really strict routine and can be 
 very tedious to anyone who's expecting big changes. It's a very slow game, but very enjoyable.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed excels on many fronts, but ultimately fails in the end as a form of entertainment.
 
  
  Ubisoft's latest original IP is a technical marvel. Graphically it tops nearly anything on todays 
 gaming market. The towns are highly detailed and everything looks accurate and realistic. Bystandards 
 flow throughout as if they were real people and, in general, Assassins Creed immerses you within 
 the jerusalem/crusade era. Alteir, the main character, is an assassin who happens to be amazingly 
 agile, scaling building with ease and leaping from roof to roof. Every animation is fluid and fun 
 to watch, and one must wonder just how the developers could possibly have made his motions appear 
 so natural. What Assassins Creed has under the hood is a solid 10/10.
  
  However, if youre actually playing the game and not just spectating you will quickly realize just 
 how badly it fails as a videogame. To put it simply, Assassins Creed is not enjoyable, it is not 
 fun. In a nutshell, Assassins Creed is a monotonous, tedious, irritating game that you will become 
 tired of within the first 3 hours. 
  
  Essentially, you have to assassinate 9 targets. In order to get to the next assassination you are 
 required to do side missions which range from beating somebody up for information or eaves dropping 
 on someone for guess what, information. You have to do 3 of these missions every single time. Then 
 you kill some important person and move on to the next. You rinse and repeat this process 9 times. 
 Yes, 9 times. Let me re-iterate, you do the exact same thing 9 times. 
  
  To top this off the combat is horrendous. You simply button mash until the person in front of you 
 is dead. Want combos or a deep fighting system? Look elsewhere. Luckily though, the enemy A. I is 
 completely brain dead and didnt eat there wheaties in the morning, for if they had eaten their 
 wheaties they would realize that when 5 guards are standing around you that they dont have to take 
 turns when fighting you. Yes, this is true. You simply slay one guard, normally by a counter-attack, 
 which is an instant un-gratifying kill, while the others wait there turn. With all being said, 
 Assassins Creed gets a 1/10 as a game. 
  
  Assassins Creed is quite possibly the most overrated game of 2007. It in no way has any redeeming 
 qualities as a form of entertainment and should be considered only as a glorified tech demo. Averaging 
 together the two aforementioned scores and you get 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiuser2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is very polished and made for nothing more than plain fun. Games don't have to 
 be complicated, some of the most fun you'll have playing any one game may be with the simplest 
 and even still oldest games. Pac-man and tetris are among the most addictive games in the world. 
 Assassin's creed keeps it simple with easy controls and uncomplicated yet satisfying fighting.
 
  
  Running, jumping, climbing, stabbing, stealing and yes even sitting all quickly present themselves 
 as options under different situations. It's easier to fold your hands and pray to get by guards 
 than to climb a building, but once they've spotted you the spiderman effect becomes a great escape.
 
  
  The world is very believable and almost fully interactive, the sound effects being superb and the 
 visuals literally jaw dropping from high-up roosts. That being said once the game is complete very 
 little is left to be done, I found myself wishing to continue on for 100% completion but as 15% 
 of the game is flags which are very impossible to find, 100% completion becomes less fun and more 
 boring. You can spend a few hours helping out every citizen that calls for help but beyond that 
 there is little to do and very little reward for doing so.
  
  Get this game, you need it to live, play it through at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrispwns
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  well im gonna be honest i wasnt that interested when this game came out i thought "well i guess 
 we have another adventure game... nothing new" yet this game is more than an adventure its an experience 
 unlike any other first it gives an emotional touch to the player in this game you in fact might 
 feel sad for some of the enemys in this game it understands killing unlike in any other game before....... ITS 
 THAT AMAZING. so if youre a player that has an xbox 360 and has many games besides this one then 
 go buy it second the story is awesome it wants to make you believe that there was a creed like 
 this back in time way long ago. The gameplay mechanics are perfect and im serious PERFECT. the 
 controls make you feel like a puppet but thats not a bad thing in shorter words BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayhayninjas
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Ok I had this game the first day it came out for the Xbox 360 and I sold it within 3 days. Lets 
 just say I was extremely excited for this game but when I finally got my hands on the game I was 
 quite disappointed... 
  
  Good Points
  
  1) Amazing Graphics, almost enough to make you stop and stare for a bit in awe at the wonders that 
 the developers have done with the scenery
  
  2) Great realism and feel for climbing/free running through the environment
  
  Bad points
 
  
  1) To me there doesn't really seem to be any progression through the game it just seems to be the 
 same thing over and over.
  
  2) MEGA repetitive 
  
  3) It could have been amazing, because the sword play was fine and climbing e. t. c but the thing 
 which let me down ALOT was the fact that there was no variation in tasks I would have loved to 
 have had quests such as sneak into a castle and take out the guards to let your friends get in 
 or something random like that
  
  All In all it's an OK game nothing brilliant, nothing special...
  I wouldn't listen to the like 
 9+ review because most of them are probably fan boys and I must admit this game has nothing on 
 the likes of gears of war, Metal gears solid 4 or Super Smash Brothers brawl.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdawood2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  I first tried Assassin's Creed on the console in my office. It looks great and I heard they put 
 in some next-gen features such as crowd simulation and realistic animation. I got hold of this 
 game as soon as I bought my Xbox 360 in early June.
  
  The story has both a futuristic and historic feel. It feels like playing a movie with stunning 
 cut scenes. Intentional glitches in the scenes allow you to look at it in a different angle.
  
  While on a mission, you are able to roam around the kingdom freely; doing investigations, looking 
 for hiding spots from high view points and collecting hidden flags. Moving around the cities is 
 quite fun while you can climb onto buildings and jump from rooftops to rooftops. I really had fun 
 climbing the highest view points and performing the "leap of faith".
  
  The controls for movement and combat are easy to get used to. As you gain levels, you gain skills 
 and new moves to stealth kill a guard or combat a group of guards with different swordsmanship 
 skills. Performing combo kills and counter attacks at the right time looks great while you are 
 having fun with guards.
  
  It feels a little like Metal Gear Solid but much easier since you can still get away and hide easily. 
 With the help of vigilantes, running away from the guards are less painful. Though, I rather face 
 all of them and wipe them all. It makes the investigations much easier later on.
  
  It is quite a short game with good story and gameplay. I managed to complete it with 35 achievements 
 unlocked within 20 hours. I guess I was lucky during the last mission where I managed to strike 
 a stealth kill the first time for the last boss. The only difficult part in this game is to assassinate 
 5 targets in 5 minutes. This takes a little more concentration to complete. Also, collecting all 
 the flags needs more time and patience.
  
  Overall, I'll say this game is worth your entire penny and I'm looking forward to the next installment 
 of Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avak555
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun while it lasts. going back and forth from town to town on horse is fun the until 
 the 12th time!!!!!!! Fun open world once you past some glitchy parts. For example getting stuck 
 in an invisible square barrier. And some cliffs you can't reach, and also the ending which disapoints 
 many.... I don't want to spoil the ending of the game so i'll stop there...... But other than the 
 glitchy parts and other stuff....... It is a very good game. Climbing over buildings and slashing 
 gaurds to save sitezins or just killin them for fun and sticking enemies with your little knife 
 thingy................ Good game!.!.!.!.! But also Diffuculty ranges from normal, hard, or harder 
 depending on what type of gamer you are. Time spent playing the game was about 20 to 40 hours but 
 with all of the roaming around the gameplay can double the time spent depending if you want to 
 explore every inch of the amazing graphic cities..... This game is defently a game worth playing.... 
 An open world/action game that will make you won't want to stop. A-!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hdhdhdhasajkalk
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an intelligent game, an adult game: more so then its given credit for. It sees 
 Altair's fall from grace and subsequent journey to self discovery and his regaining of power. His 
 constant questioning of medieval and Middle Eastern politics and morals leads to the understanding 
 that eventually will save his life. Welcome to Assassin's Creed.
  
  Gameplay is varied and consists of two elements: combat and evasion. 
  
  Action adventure games 
 need to be fluid in play, interesting and fun. Here is where Assassin's Creed excels. The swordplay 
 is fantastic: the range of combinations builds with time as does your familiarity with the controls 
 until after the first few hours you're ready to take on a city of guards. There are two types of 
 move: the attack and the defence. The attack is self explanatory: press button X to attack, button 
 Y to dodge, and button B to grab. Defence is an attack in itself: press the left trigger to block, 
 and then, assuming you time it correctly, you will counter attack an enemies move. This has a short 
 animation zooming in on your character and showing him kill the enemy in a particularly imaginative 
 way. However: whilst smooth in execution, the fights to, like most of the game, tend to become 
 rather tedious. Dispatching a guard becomes second nature; the once awesome combinations of moves 
 and the stylish execution cut scenes after a while lose their splendour, and soon the simplistic 
 controls and stylish elements to battle lose their charm. Not completely: but in a game where the 
 main focus is around swordplay, it is a shame that battle becomes so familiar so quickly. More 
 complex combinations or harder timings would be excellent. 
  
  The acrobatics is by far the best part of the game. Sprinting across city roofs, leaping from plank 
 to plank across an open market or climbing a building only to leap off the top into a hay stack 
 is great fun. This game is fantastic when it comes to climbing: its fast, easy and smooth. To add, 
 literally any surface is scalable, adding replay value to the missions due to the hugely varied 
 escape routes. Whilst this kind of acrobatics can be seen in Prince of Persia and Ninja Gaiden, 
 Assassin's Creed beats every game in this respect I have ever played. And so it should: it is the 
 game unique selling point
  
  The graphics are dead on. Just look at some of the screenshots and you will see why: they set up 
 a fantastic atmosphere. However a game should be played to experience its atmosphere: the sound 
 of the wind through the trees of the countryside, the sandstone cliffs circling the winding passes 
 in "The Kingdom" and the sound of crowds chatting and orators chanting in Damascus while you leap 
 across buildings really bring the world alive. If there is one thing games have improved on in 
 the past few years its tone. So whilst COD4 may at face value have shinier graphics, those of Assassin's 
 Creed fit perfectly. 
  
  Sound could be better. When compared with other blue chip games this year such as Mass Effect, 
 Assassin's Creed falls flat. The developers seem to have preferred to avoid actual music in favour 
 of sound effects to heighten the atmosphere. Whilst this works well in some games such as Half 
 Life due to the lack of cut scenes, during the major plot twists and cut scenes Assassin's Creed 
 really is in need of a good musical score. It wouldn't have been hard to have created some Middle 
 Eastern music to have accompanied the mystery and brutality of Altair's world, and yet corners 
 have been needlessly cut. Sound does matter as it heightens the player's interest in the story, 
 and the game is less due to a lack of it.
  
  Finally: a game without black and white characters. A round of applause for the guy writing Altair's 
 character; a deeply troubled, confused yet powerful young man who really develops as he progresses 
 through the game. The player is drawn initially away from Altair: he is arrogant and ignorant. 
 The theme of a journey from ignorance to enlightenment really isn't original, certainly in terms 
 of novels, but it is rare in games, and those that specialise in it, such as Final Fantasy, really 
 come out better for it. The shades of grey and Altair's complexity of character really do give 
 credit to this game as mature and intelligent: something you wouldn't expect if you were just to 
 look at the cover of the game box.
  
  The story is excellent when it chooses to be. Honestly, the cut scenes are revelations. They have 
 moral, philosophical and emotional conflicts. I won't go into too much detail needless to say that 
 when your target tries to rationalize his crimes, your in for a treat. However don't be fooled: 
 the cut scenes are few and far between: unfortunately the gameplay has been given too much dominance, 
 and the story lies second in priority. The majority of the game is spent doing idiotic and shallow 
 as well as repetitive side missions, such as collecting X flags in 3 minutes. 
  
  The game isn't particularly challenging: in fact I'd argue it gets easier as it gets along, as 
 you get stronger, and your enemies get less so in comparison. As well as this the swordplay, as 
 mentioned before, becomes second nature. 
  
  Pace dictates accessibility. The best way to play this game is to stick to the plot and blast through 
 it, enjoy it, and then maybe go back and collect flags, climb towers and find templars. But I doubt 
 you'll return for that: where is the fun in collecting 200 flags? Or hunting remote areas for a 
 Templar? If this is supposed to be considered the replay value, Ubisoft are barking up the wrong 
 tree to put it mildly. The latter breaks up the pace, which is enough to drive you away from an 
 otherwise excellent game. 
  
  Bugs are rare: once I was stuck inside a wall and had to reset but otherwise that's about it.
 
  
  The main negative point has to be quantity. Look: the point is they went and built huge cities, 
 dotted hundreds of flags to collect around them, and created many, many pointless and boring side 
 missions which in no way help the plot and only in the worst sense prolong the game. If these features 
 had been taken out, yes the game would have been around 10 hours, not over, but it would have been 
 better for it. 
  
  To conclude, all praise to Ubisoft for the intriguing and adult plot, as well as the excellent 
 atmosphere, graphics, level design (in terms of scalable surfaces) and combat. But please next 
 time don't think it's acceptable to prolong a game with (insert swear word) extras like flag collection: 
 because its not, and do take the time to give the game a musical score. Furthermore build up the 
 combat more: complexity here would really keep the game fresh; something it suffers from. Should 
 you buy the game? Yes, and you'll love it. Will you want to play the game a second time? I doubt 
 it.
  
  Score: 90%
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  i always wait anxiously for good adventurous games. i laid down all thy expectations for assassins 
 creed. was happy and over excited when i started the game. it has the best visuals any gamer will 
 get to see. the moves of altair is stunning and so flexible that he is alive on screen. running 
 through roof tops, jumping and climbing huge buildings so easily, one hell of a solid fencing combat 
 system, so realistic and so cool that i loved it, although seemed unexpected and awkward at the 
 story, was still ok at it. when i finished the first mission i was happy at have started playing 
 a wonderful game. after 2 or 3 missions and so on i found myself doing nothing else but the same 
 thing over and over again except for the last killing part of every mission. all the cities are 
 graphically stunning, but sadly alike except for the color hue added to the graphics, travelling 
 between cities is too long and boring, (thank god you dont have to do that later on ) . well in 
 short assassins creed is a great game, great in a lot of aspects, some great visuals, storyline 
 is pretty ok, good solid combat system, exciting moves but sadly so repatative that you would only 
 play this game once to know the story. try playing it again you will sleep for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueSonOfSparda
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a free-roam Prince of Persia. The result turns out to be not what expected. 
 This is the most disappointing game I have played. I was looking foreword to assassination dudes 
 and running away from an army, but it turns out it takes one bloody hour to actually get to the 
 assassination thats the easiest thing in the world. And the fighting is so easy, one does not need 
 to run away. Well i do have to admit it's the prettiest game since Crysis. 
  You play as an assassin named Altar who has to kill a list of dudes to regain his respect... oh 
 wait. It's actually about a dude who gets kidnapped in present day and is put into a machine to 
 read his ancestor's memory. Lets hope I did not confuse you. In order to kill the people in Altar's 
 list you must do the same chores over and over and over again. They are not that many different 
 ones either. The only one i like is the one where you have to kick some preachers ass to get information, 
 but that even gets repetitive. Then when you get to an assassination, the cut scene is usually 
 about 15 min. They when you stab the target in the neck, he blabbers on for 10 min. Then the ending 
 screws up the whole story, and all your hours are a waist of good time. Well the graphics are pretty.
 
  Please don't make the mistake I did and buy this game. The sword fighting and running away is 
 fun for a few hours. The graphics are once again really pretty. In the end you are just looking 
 at a very pretty ok game.
  
  P. S. Did I mention this game is pretty? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alecjustice
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The story of this game is alright. It has depth, and the potential to be really good, but the way 
 the story goes, *SPOILER* Altiar starts questioning why these people had to die, because they soley 
 believed that they were helping people. But Altiar does nothing to revolt, leading the story to 
 a dead halt. It may pick up in the next one, however.*SPOILER ENDS HERE* The story of the character 
 in the Animus is good, though, with lots of stuff do extra to better understand, but some are hard 
 to find.
  
  The gameplay is good, and the controls blend nicely. Combat is kind of in the beginning, when you 
 dont have the counter option. The abilty to climb anything and check out a beautiful landscape, 
 is great also. The difficulty of the game is just right, is starts easy with tutorials, and gets 
 harder as you go along. The graphics are amazing. Some of the AI is bad. Gameplay will become very 
 repetitive, consisting of view points, investigation, assassination, with a little traveling in 
 between. Thank god they let you shortcut through cities later in the game. Haven't beat it yet 
 though.
  
  Dialogue sounds, great, and goes nicely with the tone of the game. But every voice that isn't important 
 for the main story, repeats with different voices. Side mission dialogue is also very repetitive.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivinitySkate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  In assassins creed you are a bar tender that is captured and put in this machine that DNA tracks 
 your ancestors memory's and you end up being Altaieres the bar tender's ancestor, and you play 
 through his ancestors's memory.
  
  Gameplay: absolutely revolutionary the movement is just crazy, it's feeling is so realistic whenever 
 i leap of a building or start climbing i get tinglings down my spine. The fighting mechanics are 
 just mouth gaping it may be button mashing at first but it then transforms into a strategy counter 
 attack like style of fighting. Gameplay: 10/10 
  
  Graphics: Assassins creed easily revolutionizes graphics on the 360 you can see cracks and dirt 
 on the walls Unisoft defiantly spent some time on this game. 9/10
  
  sound: The sound is absolutely fantastic the citys come to life and and you can hear everyday lives 
 in assassins creed. sound: 9/10
  
  Value, tilt: assassins creed now retails for $60, I think the game would be much better off at $45. 
 Value 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBlade753
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  In Assassins Creed you play as Altair. You are part of a brotherhood of Assassins that are on a 
 quest to protect the holy land from the invading crusaders. Assassins Creed is a game that will 
 bring you along on a unique adventure unlike any other.
  
  At this point if you have heard of Assassins Creed you know about the "twist". In reality you play 
 Desmond who is a test monkey for some kind of evil cooperation. Extremely early in the game you 
 find out that these mysterious scientists are holding you captive in order to get information on 
 your ancestor, Altair. So therefore you must relive Altair's life in order to obtain the correct 
 "information".
  
  While playing you are thrust into one of three massive cities. Being as Assassin gives you the 
 ability to scale buildings in a fashion that would put Spiderman to shame. Altair will fluidly 
 scale massive towers grabbing rails and scaffolding without any hesitation. This is by far the 
 best part of Assassins Creed; the platforming game play in this game completely elevate the genre 
 and sets a new benchmark that will be tough be match and even harder to surpass.
  
  While the cities themselves are a superb achievement the events going on within the city are rather 
 disappointing. Whenever you go to a new part of the city you must follow a set routine. First you 
 must get to a high point and survey the surrounding area. Secondly you must collect information 
 on your target. In order to get this information you do one of four things. You can eavesdrop on 
 chatty citizens to get the scoop. Pick pocketing an important document is another possible objective, 
 or you can beat the information out of talkative individuals. While these three objectives make 
 sense in terms of collecting information there is another type that make me confused. There are 
 fellow assassins littered throughout the city that want you to complete objectives for them in 
 exchange for information. However these objectives are so dumb; you either have to finish off their 
 assassination duties for them, or collect the flags that they seem to misplace every single time 
 you talk to them. This might not seem like much but I have one question, whats the point of collecting 
 your stupid flags?
  
  Regardless once you're done with those you have to go and assassinate your main target. These also 
 seem to go by some sort of loose routine. You must find your target wade through the crowd of people 
 and go in for the kill. Once everyone notices the corpse on the ground twenty guards show up to 
 brawl. This brings me to my next topic of discussion, the combat. Early off in the game you spend 
 most of the time mashing on the X button until dudes die. Eventually you will build up a repertoire 
 of moves that will make you a very formidable opponent. However there is one move that seems a 
 little overpowered, the counter attack just has you patiently guarding until someone on attacks 
 you and you counter which gives you the one hit kill. Then you can just wait as each guard approaches 
 you in an orderly fashion each eagerly awaiting their turn to review a good slash to the face.
 
  
  While this is fun and exciting the first time around, you soon realize that this cycle will repeat 
 a total of eleven times. Around the third time the cycle starts to become extremely tiresome. This 
 is the major thing about Assassins Creed. Your tolerance to repeat this cycle will determine the 
 amount of enjoyment that you will be able to get out of Assassins Creed. For most people I would 
 recommend you borrow or rent this game first. Assassins Creed is not a game that is necessarily 
 worth the sixty dollar price. In the end the amount of time you can stay immersed in the world 
 will dictate how far you will go with this game. Whether or not you get to the end, everyone should 
 at least experience this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  There has been a lot of hype surrounding Assassin's Creed since it's announcement, and it definitely 
 delivers upon it's release.
  
  The visuals are top notch but the gameplay and awesome combat engine make this game truly shine. 
 The animations during the fight sequences are fantastic and never seem to get old. The game feels 
 very fluid, not clunky at all. The story, although nothing special, is quite solid. There is a 
 resonably large mass of land to discover, Creed really delivers with it's open ended gameplay. 
 Just an all-around fun action game that you can pick up and have a blast.
  
  There are some similarities to "Thief" which was released a few years back but you don't have to 
 rely upon stealth nearly as much and you have a much larger place to explore.
  
  One of the funnest games I've played in years. I highly recommend it.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a great game. The graphics are pretty, the story is good, the controls work 
 well, and the A. I is very smart. 
  
  The control system has the y button being your head, the x button is your weapon hand, the b button 
 is you empty hand, and the a button is your feet. Being able to run on top of buildings is great, 
 but having guards having the same kind of ninja-ish grace as you makes you feel less special. Also, 
 having guards noticing what is going on around them is cool, and makes the game feel more real, 
 however, they kind of realize you are an assassin far too quickly. 
  
  A cool, but creepy part of the game is the talking to dead people part. This is where a lot of 
 the story is unveiled to you, but having their bloody corpse in you hands feels funny. Something 
 that they could have included that would have been cool is a skip button. Having to watch pointless 
 scenes gets old fast, and makes you feel bored for a lot of your playtime. 
  
  I think this game deserves a 9 out of ten, because it has great control, great graphics, great 
 sound, great A. I, but has a story that is forced on you and the A. I can be too smart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbieboy87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Assassin's Creed will stay with you long after you finish it. Here is one of the most unique gameworlds 
 ever created: beautiful, memorable, and alive. Every crack and crevasse is filled with gorgeous, 
 subtle details, from astounding visual flourishes to overheard cries for help. But it's more than 
 just a world -- it's a fun and exciting action game with a ton of stuff to do and places to explore, 
 rounded out with silky-smooth controls and a complex story that will slowly grab you the more you 
 play. Make no mistake: Assassin's Creed is one of the best efforts of the year and a must-own game 
 for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owners.
  
  
  The citizens of Damascus have a lot of secrets to hide.
  
  Not enough can be said about the 
 living, breathing world that you'll inhabit in Assassin's Creed. As assassin extraordinaire Altar, 
 you'll explore three major cities of the Holy Land in the 12th century: Jerusalem, Damascus, and 
 Acre. Each city is beautifully rendered from top to bottom and features meticulously crafted towers 
 that reach for the sky, bustling market squares, and quiet corners where citizens converse and 
 drunks lie in wait to accost you. As you wander the streets (and rooftops) , you'll push your way 
 through crowds of women carrying jars on their heads, hear orators shout political and religious 
 wisdom, and watch town guards harass innocent victims. Altar has a profound effect on this world, 
 but the cities are entities all their own, with their own flows and personalities.
  
  The visual design has a lot to do with how believably organic everything feels. The cities are 
 absolutely huge, and though you don't get full exploration privileges in the first few chapters, 
 they eventually open up to let you travel seamlessly from one side to another. Everything is beautifully 
 lit with just the right amount of bloom effect, and almost everything casts a shadow, from tall 
 pillars to Altar's cloak. In fact, sometimes the shadows get to be a bit much and may make you 
 think for a moment that there is artifacting on your screen, when in fact it's a character's head 
 casting a shadow on his or her own neck. Every object, from scaffolds to pottery, is textured so 
 finely you feel as if you could reach out and touch it. Animations are almost as equally well done. 
 Altar scales walls, leaps majestically from towers, and engages in swashbuckling swordfights that 
 would make Errol Flynn proud. And he does it all with fluid ease, generally moving from one pose 
 to another without a hitch. Minor characters move gracefully as well, though one of the game's 
 few visual drawbacks is the occasional jerky animation on the part of a citizen. However, it's 
 easy to forgive, considering that the cities are populated with thousands and thousands of individuals. 
 In fact, these tiny blemishes are noticeable only because everything else looks so incredible.
 
  
  What you hear is even more impressive than what you see. At the top of a temple, you hear little 
 but the rush of wind, the twittering of birds, and the barking of a far-off dog. In the most populated 
 areas, your ears will fill with the din of street vendors, the pleas of beggars, and the occasional 
 humming. It's never too much, though, and the game does a good job of making sure you hear what 
 you need to hear (for example, the cries of citizens who need your help) , without filling your 
 ears with pointless noise. All these effects, along with the clangs of swords and groans of assassinated 
 foes, are outstanding. The voice acting of the supporting cast is similarly remarkable. Conversations 
 are completely believable and delivered with the perfect amount of solemn dignity. Oddly, the weakest 
 link is Altar himself. Actor Philip Shahbaz does an all right job, but he isn't up to par with 
 the first-rate acting of his fellow troupe. Rounding it all out is a beautiful orchestral score 
 that is most notable for its subtlety. Many of the game's most impressive moments are accompanied 
 by lovely musical themes that add even more threads to the game's rich living tapestry.
  
  
  Climb to the pinnacle of a tower for a bird's-eye view.
  
  Fortunately, the story that 
 binds it all together rises to the occasion. Actually, there are two related stories in play. The 
 unfolding drama of Crusades-era Palestine is a mere memory, forcibly pulled from a modern-day bartender 
 named Desmond by a resolute researcher using a machine called an animus. The memories aren't Desmond's 
 own -- they are Altar's, stored safely in the hapless subject's genetic code. We follow Altar as 
 he assassinates nine public figures at the command of his master, and as the common thread that 
 ties these men comes into focus, so does the true identity of Desmond's captors. There are no cutscenes 
 in the traditional sense; every bit of story exposition and dialogue flows smoothly from the gameplay 
 and takes place entirely within the game engine. The ending is confusing, and it blatantly leaves 
 open the possibility of a sequel, but it's a small blemish on an otherwise stirring tale. Altar's 
 world is not one of absolutes. His assassination targets aren't always evil, and Altar isn't always 
 likable. As he is fond of reminding us, "Nothing is true. Everything is permitted."
  
  Of course, such an authentic world would be meaningless without a lot of fun things to do in it. 
 Thankfully, Assassin's Creed is endlessly entertaining in that it features a fine mix of stealthy 
 exploration, tight platforming, and exciting combat. To discover the whereabouts of your assassination 
 targets, you must first follow up on possible leads. There are several different mission types 
 in this regard. In some cases, you sit on a bench and listen in on secret conversations. At other 
 times, you will closely follow someone carrying an important letter that you'll pickpocket. Alternately, 
 you can beat the information out of your target. Most missions are relatively easy to pull off 
 in the early stages of the game. But once the guards and townspeople start recognizing you (or 
 you alert them to your presence too close to the scene of one of your crimes) , they get a little 
 tougher.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heylin_prince
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  who'd ever thought that a game thta wasn't a first person/third person shooter with the exception 
 of guitar hero would be so fun and addicting. well assassin's creed would definately be one of 
 them. 
  the best thing about this game are its graphics, the graphics are just stunning nad it will seem 
 more like a live action than being animated. the voice-acting is very awesome and even the crowds 
 have a very detailed and articulate voice htat you'd feel like you're in the holy land yourself. 
 even though the gameplay is not the best in thids video game, it's enough to leave you crying for 
 more. from killing gaurds and templars, interragaitng informants and assisinating targets. this 
 game is very challenging but for all the good reasons. heck the only thing wrong with it are the 
 viewpoints, I can't find a single investigation anywhere with them :P.
  to put it in short buy this game, i recommend to any type of gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6reatNate
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. Thought for people who dont like these kind of games they should rent 
 it first. Right when you start you go through some dialogue that explains some but doesnt give 
 alot away. I know that its not all about the dialogue, its primarily about the action. You jump 
 right into the game, and the first level is pretty good. But the rest of the game is like a soda 
 can. Its really only extremly fizzy once you open it but it loses the fizz as time passes. So, 
 for those that dont understand it i am basically saying that its awsome at first but kinda loses 
 the awsome as the game continues. It is also slightly repetitive, repetitive, repetitive. Even 
 though its repetitive it aslo changes slightly. I know, I know i am sounding like a hippocrit but 
 its the only way i can explain it. I mean I dont want to ruin anything but its just assassination 
 after assassination. Its still a pretty fun game and i would give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  It took a really long time for me to decide to get this game, I really didn't want another Theft 
 type game, with your hero sneaking around everywhere, to me that is about as boring as it gets, 
 but Assassin's Creed is so much more. This game takes you into a amazing world of the Middle East, 
 and in a time that city lords could pretty much do whatever they want to their civilians.
  This is a beautiful game with a huge vista where you can travel anywhere and see anything. The 
 game is scripted but not by much. There are things that you have to do in a certain order, but 
 when you make it to one of the 3 main city's; Jerusalem, Damascus and Acre, you can move around 
 the city as you well, as long as your memory allow you to.
  The cities are amazing, with a huge population of folks going along doing their daily chores, this 
 is where the sounds are just about as amazing as the graphics, lots is going on in the city's. 
 The only problem I had with this, other then a very select few, you can't interact with any of 
 these people that is too bad because I think it would have been a good way of finding out the pulse 
 of the people.
  As a assassin you need to move around the cities doing what you're best at, and again Ubisoft did 
 a amazing job of this, by giving your hero the amazing ability to scale the walls of the city and 
 jump from roof to roof. That is one of the coolest things in the game. Running from roof tops is 
 a essential part of the game, you will need this to get away from the bad guys, especially later 
 in the game.
  The game isn't without its issues, mostly the controls can be a bit hard to get use to, the manual 
 doesn't do much to help but there are some pretty cool in game instructions that will help. There 
 is also a ton of button smashing, and with that there is a lot of combo controls that you will 
 need to learn. 
  One other issue I had is that the game gets progressively harder, to a point of being insane, and 
 it's very difficult to break away from a fight when there are 20 to 1 odds. You need to defeat 
 the entire group before it allows you to scale the walls and get away, and with odds like that 
 it's nearly impossible.
  This is a pretty amazing game, there a lot to do, from assassinations to pickpocket to doing missions 
 for an informant you should have of ton of fun with it, though things can get a bit repetitive 
 the things you do is a lot of fun. This is a winner, all the way around. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kebler0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The game was great the first time through aside from the odd story line. It would have been much 
 better without the futuristic twist. On HDTV it is absolutely gorgeous and what you see is where 
 you can go. The cities are wonderfully crafted, you can climb almost everything! The big problem 
 with this game is that in every city and for every assassination you have to complete virtually 
 the same exact tasks or mission, saving citizens, pickpocketing, eavesdropping, and beating up 
 someone, is all that you do, there are no side quests besides collecting 100 flags in each city. 
 If you have the impression that this is a fps with a touch of rpg you are wrong, as it is way too 
 shallow of an upgrading process. The only upgrades that you receive are the various weapons and 
 upgraded weaopons you receive from your boss. Also the combat system is a breeze, you can sit and 
 wait forever and then just keep killing when your enemies come at you, if you die then you are 
 not even an average gamer. A 5 year old who can time an attack with fair accuracy should have no 
 problem killing literally hundreds of enemies even on the hardest setting. In my opinion this game 
 could have been made much better, please ubisoft dont make us do the same things every 45 minutes 
 of our gameplay (overall a total of 20hours or a speedy 10) and in the sequal (if there is one) 
 rework the combat system to one more like splinter cell (a little easier though as there is no 
 dark areas) make the gamer blend into a crowd and have him slowly work his way to his target through 
 numerous different options before the stealthy assassination. The absense of a multiplayer is not 
 a problem in the least as it would subtract from the gameplay, unless ubisoft hit it just right 
 and had the perfect game type of hunting the other player (s) down in a huge city with similar means 
 as the reworked single player would be. In the end it makes the cut because of the idea behind 
 it but the repetetiveness is a huge problem and there is much to be desired afterwords. I hope 
 there is a sequal because i know that ubisoft will fix its problems (hopefully) and make the assassin's 
 creed 2 much much much more in depth (the touch of rpg) maybe starting as an aprentice assassin 
 and working your way up by gaining skills (i. e. persuasion, strength, stealth, influence, and all 
 the others) . It may just be my very high expectations but the game didnt leave my hopes fulfilled..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_1991
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Again i feel kinda of dumb writing a review for a game that i played like two or three month's 
 ago, but like bioshock, this game was so perfect that i still remember how fun it was. 
  The game has a nice sci-fi twist to it as the main character is kidnapped and forced to use a machine 
 that plays the memories of his ancestor Altiar who is an assassin in god knows which one of the 
 crusades. For me the whole thing felt like much more cooler version of the matrix since you'll 
 be playing as both Desmond in the present time and his ancestor Altiar in the crusades with the 
 help of the machine whose name escapes me.
  Graphics are extremely realistic and being able to move around and control the camera in a cutscene 
 was a nice touch. The citys in the game like Acre and Jurusleum are so well detailed and the people 
 in the city are so lifelike in that they are constantly doing random stuff that you almost never 
 see twice. The buildings are just so pretty to look at whether it's a giant tower, temple or a 
 nearly demolished building. Free running in the game reminds me alot of that one Daredevil movie 
 and the chase scene at the beginning of Casino Royale. Altiar can grab on to almost anything that 
 any real free running person can, ladders are pretty much useless since he can climb up walls just 
 by grabing on to anything sticking out of it like a sore thumb ( believe me seeing an assassin dressed 
 in white climbing a wall is so much cooler to look at than seeing him climb a ladder) .
  Fighting in this game was like slap in the face for star wars. You can either use short or long 
 sword to take down an enemy or throwing knives to take down bad guys from afar. You can sneak up 
 behind an unsuspecting guardsmen and assassinate him with the hidden blade and walk away looking 
 like an innocent priest. Blocking and countering attacks is so fun as Altiar will perform an insane 
 move (depending on what weapon his using) and kill any badguy within the blink of an eye ( countering 
 with a short sword is so bloody fun) .
  Missions are so gosh darn exciting since you'll being doing things like pickpoceting guys, beating 
 the information out of goons, saving women from retard guardsmen and finally assassinating your 
 target. Only downside is that all of that ends very quickly but the well told story and the side 
 missions like killing of templars and finding flags keep you playing forever. Your basicaly dumb 
 if you don't like this game, there for i it give a 10 out 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  assassins creeds gameplay, control schme, way of playing and graphics are bound to revolutionise 
 the gaming world, and i noticed that some of its lighting has also taken part in gta 4. not only 
 is it a new way to play but a new way to play with style, you play as a vain ignorant man who thinks 
 too highly of himself and is demoted his rank in his guild to show him to be respectful and not 
 boastful. the game is extraordinarily original and has some pretty neat theories in it which i 
 do not believe of course but that are quite relevant, you learn about this in the end, which isnt 
 to far off because the game is fairly easy and short so you wont have any problems in beating it 
 so dont worry. the control scheme is also original, with the scheme flowing spectacularly well 
 and so simple that pulling of super awesome moves is done in pretty much two buttons.
  
  because this game is so extraordinarily rare and fantastic, there are bound to be dozens of other 
 games that copy some aspect of it and others that copy the game bit by bit, and i think that this 
 game is so good that its copiers will actually manage to pull off a spectacular game.
  
  overall this game is a must buy and i am suprised how underated it is, it is polished to an exent 
 that the light rebounding off it blinds you and makes you strutt backwards and fall off a balcony 
 , which you now can save yourself from because you have picked up a few tricks from altair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wutaloner
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of my all time favorite games. It has almost an infinite amount of replay value, 
 which is a definate plus. The graphics are beautiful, the story is deep, and the sound is better 
 than par. It shouldn't take any time to get use to the controls. This game really set the bar pretty 
 high for how games should be. It's like they took a good version of Splinter Cell, and made it 
 with swords and the ability to go anywhere. I'm hoping there will be a sequal. I don't wish that 
 upon many games. I do hope that it will be a little bit more in the future. 
  There are only a few downsides. Sometimes the story or getting into the game, can drag on. I really 
 wish I had a choice in the matter; like who I could and couldn't kill, and if so, how would it 
 change me or the outcome.
  Otherwise, this is a pretty solid game that can keep you entranced for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordJinChaos
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a highly entertaining & beautiful game. It can be very fast-paced which is 
 good, but you must remember that stealth is the key. The learning curve is definitely not a problem 
 because as you progress in the game, you will unlock new moves to add to your arsenal. Depending 
 on your style of play, you can become the definition of an assassin or you can just become a ruthless 
 killer.
  ----------------------------------
  -STORY-
  Assassin's Creed story is so in depth as you follow what seems two seperate stories. You will find 
 yourself being lured in. I can't tell you everything since Assassin's Creed is filled with tons 
 of twists throughout the story, but I will give you a detailed summary.
  
  It's set in September 2012 A. D. You play as Desmond Miles, a bartender, that has been kidnapped 
 by an unknown group of people where they are trying to obtain memories of his ancestors using a 
 high tech machine call The Animus. Using The Animus, you follow Altair, Desmond's descendant & 
 a member of the Assassins Order during the Third Crusade, where you go back to 1191 A. D. to see 
 how the Assassins Order worked. As Altair, your master & leader of the Order Al Mualim sends you 
 to venture out into the Holy Land and assassinate nine men said to be exploiting the hostilities 
 created by the Third Crusade. In doing so, you will stabilize the region, helping the Order's goal 
 of securing peace in the Holy Land. Along the way, however, you discover that your targets are 
 bound by more than just a shared interest in personal gain, but are secretly members of the Knights 
 Templar, with the goal to unite all mankind under a common cause.
  
  Meanwhile as you play Desmond, you find out that there is more than meets the eye with his captures. 
 They are using Desmond to discover the locations of artifacts, through Altair's memories, known 
 as Pieces of Eden. These artifacts cause massive illusions, referenced to acts in the Holy Bible 
 such as the parting of the Red Sea, which could be used to control the people of the world.
  ----------------------------------
  -GAMEPLAY-
  The gameplay makes this game so addicting, 
 but sometimes so frustrating. The only downfall is the it can become very repetitive, but you just 
 have to explore every option to keep things interesting.
  
  As said before, Altair has quite a few weapons & moves to help you take out guards. You can kill 
 people in crowds with your hidden blade or from rooftops with throwing knives becoming quite the 
 stealthy assassin, but be careful that no one notices. Which can become very difficult since you 
 are sometimes timed & citizens can blow your cover. Once caught in a fight, you have three options: 
 run, take the offense, or take to defense. I'll explain the three since no option is the wrong 
 choice.
  
  On offense you can mow down guards with guard breaks, & grabbing enemies throwing them to the ground 
 to make killing them a piece of cake. Just be careful because they can counter you leaving you 
 open to take a few shots of their own. Defense on the other hand is just as good, but can be very 
 repetitive if this is all you do. You can break enemy grabs, knocking them to the floor. You can 
 wait & counter their attacks killing them instantly or again, making them easy targets on the floor. 
 Defense is fairly simple. Just make sure you time you counters perfect & you should be fine. Last, 
 but not least, running. If you choose to run, Altair is highly capable to evading the guards with 
 his free runner type style to scale buildings & run on the roofs or there are multiple cover locations. 
 You can blend in with a group of scholars, hide in a covered canopy, jump through merchant stands 
 & blend in with people on benches. The guards do not give up easily & often cut off your escapes. 
 I would advise you take sharp turns & make them run in circles to break a line of sight. There 
 are even vigilantes that will distract or grab the guards while you escape.
  
  The A. I. for the gameplay is amazing as well. As I said before, the guards can often cut off you 
 escapes, the vigilantes grabbing the guards, & even beggars bothering you. You get the realism 
 that everyone loves. They can get annoying because they will react to every action you do sometimes 
 exposing you when you least need it.
  ----------------------------------
  -GRAPHICS-
  Assassin's Creed is one of the most gorgeous games I have ever had the pleasure to play. Once you 
 reach a high point & see the whole city, it's simply breathtaking. Minus a very small amount of 
 glitches such as your camera view moving in & out of buildings or the occasional guard's body twitching 
 once their dead. All in all, the graphics are definitely a major addition to the game. From the 
 view of the city to the citizens, it's the details that make this game unique. Citizen'ss appearances 
 will change from clothes to ever headdresses. Even the district your in as well will change. Poorer 
 sections will have run down buildings while the richer neighborhoods will have huge, grand cathedrals. 
 The details added make Assassin's Creed that much more lovable.
  ----------------------------------
  -SOUND-
  The audio in this game is a love/hate situation. 
 Once your playing hearing all the different sounds in markets make you feel that you are actually 
 there. As I've said earlier, repetition plays a major part with the sounds of Assassin's Creed. 
 From beggars constantly hassling your for money, guards telling you not to do something & then 
 the missions of course. You'll notice that the dialogue when saving a citizen just starts to switch 
 in a certain order so you'll heard the same compliments or sayings over & over. The music for the 
 different towns is a nice change. As is the music when in a fight or running for dear life.
  ----------------------------------
  -FINAL THOUGHTS-
  Assassin's Creed is a overall amazing 
 game that every 360 or PS3 owner should have. It is so detailed that you can't help just love Ubisoft 
 for making such a great game. It's definitely one of the better action-adventure games to come 
 out in quite some time. It can easy become one of your favorite games in just a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Origin-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed has been long awaited for years and the real question is, has Assassins Creed lived 
 up to all the hype. The answer is Yes it has, but is this isn't necessarily a good thing since 
 the whole premise behind Assassins Creed was never that big in the first place.
  
  The first 3,4 hours of the game is really something amazing though because players have never played 
 a game like this before. But once you've experienced everything that the game has to offer, and 
 you still have 3/4 of the game left to play... well then it becomes repetitive and boring. The 
 idea of the game is creative and fun but it's not enough to keep players hooked.
  
  Assassins Creed is fun and it's certainly something everyone should try out but I would recommend 
 that you only rent it because that'll give you the time to experience the greatness of the game 
 and by the time you have to return the game, you'll have reached the part where nothing new is 
 introduced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soups24
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for any fan of GTA or even Ninja Gaiden. Bassicly you run around three towns 
 Jurusalem Domascus and Acre climbing tall structures and discovering quests. Once a certain amount 
 of the quests are done in the district of the city you can assasinate your target. This is all 
 loads of fun, but since there are only 4 types of quests (really three since one is finding flags) 
 it becomes repetitive. Also it is somtimes really frustrating when the guards chase after you for 
 no reason. Other then this this is at some points better then GTA because GTA freezes. The horseback 
 riding points are also phenomonal and really fun. I cant wait for Assassins Creed  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Isn't it time to assassinate a couple of guys in Medieval Times? We have been waiting for a bad 
 ass game like this. Welcome to Assassin's Creed. I finished this game over Christmas and decided 
 to beat it before school started again. I couldn't stop playing this game, it is that good. You 
 play as a Master Assassin named Altair who has been stripped of his title from disobeying his master. 
 You then must reclaim your title and kill nine major people during the Crusades. They enemy AI 
 slowly builds its toughness that the guards recognize you from someone you assassinated. You go 
 to three major cities which is why they recognize you. After you kill the person, you then go into 
 a sci-fi scene as the man tells you their stories which leads you back to one person. The game 
 is repetitive and the ending is pretty disappointing but this won't stop you from enjoying this 
 game. No online play for the 360 or PS3 but I look forward to play the sequel and hopefully, raise 
 the score I have given. Assassin's Creed gets a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is a highly overrated game and deserves far less respect than it has from the gaming audience. 
 
  
  The good
  
  -Nice voice acting
  -Excellent graphics
  -Large and open environments with alot of details.
  -Nice horse riding...
  
  The bad
  
 
  -This game is a true icon for repetative gameplay, with a mind numbing series of assassinations.
 
  -Annoying combat... what more can I say about that? But given the camera angle, nothing more can 
 be expected.
  -A terrible save system. It saves after a cutscene but not after you finish 90% of the mission.
 
  -VERY sensative A. I, programmed specifically to piss the player off. Also, the drunks and beggers 
 in the city are an unnecessary addition that really can get annoying beyond words. If you kill 
 them, your penalized for it.
  -Extremely tedious side objectives.
  
  After owning this game for months now, I finally chose to make this review because I pushed myself 
 to finish the game. Yes, I mastered it and this is my final judgement. I'm not one of those idiots 
 that plays a game for 10 minutes and declares that it sucks, I actually duke it out and express 
 my personal opinion and also the facts. I don't care if you give this a thumbs down, I just wanted 
 to express my disgust after throwing away 60 good dollars on an amateurly designed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peza141
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is an invoative and fun experiance that is mirrored with some very repitive gameplay. 
 You play the assassin altair and you are a notorious assassin at the start of the story but a mission 
 goes wrong and you are stripped of your rank due to breaking the rules of the assassins guild. 
 Because of this you are asked to kill 9 people around the three citys that exist in the game. The 
 controls are very easy to use and the amount of moves you can do is satifiying. Altair has number 
 of combat movers which are shown to you in a way very much the same as splinter cell. This makes 
 the combat fairly easy but good fun. In addition to altairs combat moves you can run up walls and 
 climb up just about every building in assassins creed. Running from rooftop tp rooftop has never 
 been so much fun in a game. 
  
  The missions are set in the three citys featured in the game which are visually stunning. To prepare 
 for your actual assassination attempt you have to gather inform in the form of doind small missions. 
 This invloves climbing buildings in the city to find out where you missions are. the sources come 
 in three types of missions these are pickpocketing, interogation and eavedropping you also get 
 to do missions for other members of the creed. These missions are quite intresting the first few 
 times you do them but they soon become boring and repitive. Also there are areas where you can 
 help out citizens and in return you get allies around the city. The best part of assassins creed 
 is the actual assination missions themselves, they are very well set out and provide some violent 
 cutscenes. 
  
  The graphics in creed are the amongst the best on the 360 with everything so detailed and this 
 mixed with cities that feel alive, this is one of the high points of assassins creed. The sound 
 effects in assassins creed are also great be it the clang of swords of the sound of sword slicing 
 through flesh. 
  
  Overall i think assassins creed is a great game even though it can get abit repitive. I highly 
 recommend this game to fans of action and sandbox style gameplay. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft are mad men when it comes to their newest installment of action games. Assassin's Creed 
 puts you in control of Altair an Assassin of a clan of brothers. The game has no bounds when it 
 comes to cities normally whatever you see you can go. There are some invisible walls but these 
 are easily explained by the memory access error. 
  
  When I started playing the game I expected to take control of Altair. . . .to acually BE him but 
 the game threw me a right hook when it put me in the shoes of your normal average assassin turned 
 bar tender Desmound Miles. . . . . . .errrr ok maybe he's not your run of the mill guy but he seems 
 pretty normal the story line of Desmound's time is around the 21st century with large labrotories 
 and cell phones and such. Altiar who is Desmound's decendant is placed around the Circa 1191 time 
 line and the main objective of the story is to find a treasure that was created by what seems like 
 Gods. The treasure falls into the wrong hands and you and your men are ambushed. You survive. . 
 . . . .the other's fates are unknown. As you go back to your clan you discuss with your leader 
 and you are punished with your rash actions and stripped of your rank. This means no sweet awesome 
 weapons and abilities. You need to start from the bottom up. . . . a pupil . . . . nothing more. 
 As the game progresses you aquire new weapons and abilities. These weapons will help you dispatch 
 your enemies faster and quicker and ever more stealthy.
  
  
  The game controls smoothlly walking. . . . .sprinting. . . .climbing. . . . blending its all there 
 even the fight system is polished. With a mixture of counters and kills. A fighting system so simple 
 that even casual gamers can fall right into it and take out 100 gaurds (though the main premise 
 in the game is STEALTH)
  
  the enviorments are beautiful. One of the main things you need to do is find high places and acually 
 see your surroundings a simply breathtaking veiw. The most interesting thing is the people and 
 how they interact with you. If you bump into someone you will blow or endanger your covor something 
 you dont want in this game. Other than that this game will take you some stealth to get through 
 it as quicklly as possible.
  
  Time for this game is not the most pleasing part about this game it should only take you roughly 
 about 10-12 hours to complete the entire game and get all of the acheivments. 
  
  Another displeasing fact is the replay value. Though the game is short it would be fun to go back 
 into the story and do some assassinations with a simple load. . . .but in order to replay it you 
 need to start a completelly new game. This is a tad bit frustrating when you are looking for the 
 tiny achievments such as finding Flags in Kingdom and her sisters and annaliating your sworn enemy 
 the templars. 
  
  All and all Assassin's Creed leaves an awesome feeling that you never want to end but sadlly comes 
 to a fast closing but I give it a 9.2 out of 10
  
  Devil Vergil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shenanigans19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed had so much potential to be a great game but it was a let down. 
  The first issue I had was the actual assassinations. Killing your targets was never done as it 
 would be by a true assassin. It was pretty much impossible for most targets to be approached without 
 being seen. Done right, the targets should have been able to be taken out without anyone realizing 
 who it was that did it. 
  The second issue was it was just way to repetitive. Everything was the same just a different place, 
 same thugs picking on citizens that looked and said the same things that the last ones you saved 
 said. 
  Another issue was the whole blending thing. Somehow guards had no idea who you were as long as 
 you were blending, but if you even let off the button for a fraction of a second somehow they instantly 
 recognized you and chased you down. 
  The final issue I had that just got annoying was at some points for no reason you would just stop 
 climbing. There were things to grab on he just refused to climb. Simply climbing down one step 
 and climb back up and amazingly he had no problem in the spot there was a problem before. 
  It did have its good points, the graphics and animation especially climbing animation were amazing. 
 Also some of the fighting was just plain fun. 
  
  Overall it was a good idea, great graphics but poorly executed. Its the type of game I played through 
 once and will probably never touch again.
  I am baffled how it got a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cherokee_Jack
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is certainly a great-looking game; the lighting, textures, and animation are all 
 accomplished and really add to the setting. The artistic design is also outstanding. The architecture 
 is very detailed, especially in the Islamic cities, and was obviously labored over. Almost all 
 of the man-made structures are climbable, though not in a way that reduces the credibility of the 
 setting. This, combined with the game's unique parkour-based movement system, enables you to effortlessly 
 glide through cities without ever touching the ground. The areas outside of the cities are rather 
 sparse, but are still good-looking.
  
  The sound design is also excellent. The ambient sounds are immersive and authentic, the music is 
 subtle but well done, and the voice acting is generally very good. The one exception is the voice 
 of the main character, Altair, which seemed phoned-in and didn't even approach any sort of accent, 
 unlike the other characters. It was a unprofessional performance, and I hope that Ubisoft will 
 decide to hire a new actor for the rest of the series. 
  
  The premise of the gameplay is fairly simple: in each new city, you visit the local Assassin's 
 Bureau, do some investigative work around town, then go to a designated location to make the kill. 
 The information-gathering segments are probably the weakest parts of the game; you are tasked with 
 finding a certain number of tidbits about your future victim by going to locations marked on your 
 map and doing one of several activities in order to get the info. These include things like sitting 
 on a bench and listening to an informative conversation, pickpocketing someone to obtain a map, 
 collecting a number of flags within a time limit, and other inane routines which quickly grow stale. 
 The crowning insult is that the info gathered by these missions isn't particularly useful, and 
 it's perfectly easy to complete an assassination without it.
  
  As for the actual assassinations, they're the centerpiece of the game, and it shows. You're treated 
 to some rather well made cut-scenes before and after the hit (one memorable scene showed a man 
 getting his legs broken by your target's thugs, which was very believable and not very pretty) . 
 The stealth elements of the game aren't as important here as you might think, since your victim 
 is usually surrounded by heavily armed guards. Unless you really take the time to learn what the 
 game expects of you, the assassinations end up being more like skirmishes. Thankfully, you're provided 
 with some impressive set pieces to make the battles more interesting. 
  
  This can't save the hits from becoming repetitive after a while, however. The game really can't 
 hold up with the assassinations alone, especially when the content in between can barely hold the 
 player's interest. Some interesting side-quests would have been welcome, but unfortunately that 
 is the exact opposite of what you'll get. If you want a break from the main game, you'll be asked 
 to drag yourself to every single city in the land and look for two things: flags and crusaders. 
 Collect all of the former and kill all of the latter (which would probably take longer than the 
 actual game) , and you'll get a small number of achievement points. On the 360 version, that is. 
 Whoopee. Maybe if you gave me a cash prize, I would do it, but achievement points aren't that big 
 of a thing with most people.
  
  Bottom Line: You don't really get your money's worth, but it's a surprisingly addictive game if 
 you give it a chance. It makes great use of the 360 hardware, and crusades history enthusiasts 
 will probably get a lot out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkster77
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an ambitious romp that puts you in the shoes of the Assassin Altair during 
 the era of the Third Crusade. Altair starts off as a headstrong, self-serving enforcer for the 
 Assassin's guild and is stripped of his rank due to his impertinence and unwillingness to follow 
 the tenets of the Assassin's guild. His journey is one of redemption as he is given 9 targets to 
 eliminate for the sake of peace and stability in the region.
  Altair controls very well, and the game's method for introducing your formidable arsenal of moves 
 is very well integrated into the game. Most tutorial modes fail on this count, but Assassin's Creed 
 does a very good job of introducing you to just what Altair can do. As new moves and maneuvers 
 are unlocked, you have the opportunity to practice them in the combat tutorial you pass as you 
 begin each mission making them entirely avoidable later in the game. Altair has a number of combat 
 moves based on button timing during a fight. These moves are fairly easy to pull off and make Altair 
 very difficult to defeat in combat, even when faced with multiple foes. In addition to combat, 
 Altair has a number of climbing and jumping abilities that the game does a very good job of using 
 based on the terrain you're crossing. Running across rooftops is seamless and climbing walls and 
 structures is very intuitive.
  As for the missions themselves, Altair travels from Musayf, your home base to three distance cities, 
 each with three different districts, one of which contains your target at any given point. Preparing 
 for your actual assassination attempt involves scaling high points in the city to scout out sources 
 of information. These sources come in three forms: interrogation, pickpocketing, and eavesdropping. 
 Interrogation involves listening to a character talk about how great your target is to the public, 
 then following them afterwards only to pummel some information out of them. Pickpocketing involves 
 listening to a conversation, then sneaking up behind one of the talkers and snatching some sort 
 of information from them. Eavesdropping is just that. You take a seat on a bench and overhear a 
 conversation pertaining to your target. Individually these missions are exciting the first couple 
 times you do them, but when you have to do the same thing over the course of 9 missions, they lose 
 their value and simply become check-the-box moments. Additionally, throughout each district of 
 the cities, there are citizens that can be saved from abusive guards and doing so grants you allies 
 throughout the city to help you get into guarded areas, or protect you from pursuing guards.
  Finally, after all your preparation is complete, you are treated to the assassination mission itself. 
 These are very well done and can be very tense and exciting depending on your approach. If you 
 want to go in with sword drawn and fight your way to the target, you can. If you want to sneak 
 up on your target unnoticed for the kill, you can. Each of the encounters is unique and each has 
 a number of approaches you can take. Even when things go wrong and you're forced to chase your 
 target through the streets, the game reaches its highest moments during these events. Upon making 
 the kill, you're treated to a cinematic talk between Altair and his victim regarding the victim's 
 goals and ties. These speeches are quite thought provoking and serve to make Altair wonder just 
 what he's doing. Altair's development throughout these missions as he struggles with his inner 
 doubts is the highlight of the overall story.
  The cities themselves have an amazing look and feel of them. Cities feel alive, with plenty of 
 patrons roaming the cities, patrolling guards, annoying beggars, merchants, and a host of other 
 characters. If you start playing climbing a wall in front of them, the citizens look at you puzzled 
 and make comments about your mental health. If they see you kill someone, they scream for guards 
 and run away. The cities feel genuine while you're roaming them and that's without even touching 
 on the graphics. Assassin's Creed looks absolutely breathtaking. Upon climbing to high points in 
 town, you are treated to a panoramic view of the area. Distant mountains, water, rooftops and cathedrals, 
 everything looks beautiful. Assassin's Creed outdid itself in the graphics department and it really 
 adds to the experience of the game.
  For the rest of the technical side, the sound effects are top notch. Swords clang, the sound of 
 your hidden blade being thrust into a victim is both gruesome and electrifying at the same time. 
 Music for the chase sequences is exciting and fast paced. The voice acting is well done and each 
 character feels and sounds 'right'. 
  Overall I enjoyed my time with Assassin's Creed. My only concern is how repetitive the missions 
 get as the game goes on which causes the game to lose a lot of steam as the story progresses. All 
 in all I recommend the game highly to anyone who enjoys action or sandbox style games. There are 
 plenty of things to enjoy for fans of either genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigoureuxEVIL5
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a single player action game for your 360 this is a must buy. set in the 12th 
 century in the crusade, (but also modern day, you need to play it to find out) you are an assassin 
 called altieir travelling between different cities to kill targets. at the same time you can save 
 citizens or just mess around doing various things. the core of the game is very fun ,and although 
 repeated a bit it, it dosent matter that much.
  The game introduces some great things, my favourite being Freeruning, where you can climb almost 
 anything in the vast cities, but the combat system is great and the sound effects help you imagine 
 yourself stabbing somone with your hidden blade. However most live games are online play and some 
 modes would have taken this to the next level.
  
  Gameplay:9
  Graphics:9
  Sound:9
  Fun:9
  Value:9
  Assassins creed is excellent but not quite a must have for all 360 owners.
 
  Two more are coming to make a trilogy so hopefully Ubisoft can improve on a good basis, and after 
 the first you will want to get at least the second as the story is compelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cinemadoak
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the previews for this game, I was ecstatic! Mostly because when this game came 
 out, i was still stuck on Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, and I was into the medieval time game play. 
 Which, I was Elder Scrolls on 360, and I finally got all the Achievements! Cause I'm an Achievement 
 whore! (Can I say that on here?)
  So I got the game at Best Buy (much to my wife's despise) the night after it came out. I picked 
 up the regular edition, but walking to the check out, I found the Limited Edition with the maps 
 and figurine and the big haunkin metal case, which didn't fit anywhere around my entertainment 
 center (again, much to my wifes despise) . I started playing it when I got home and was interested 
 at how it starts and the storyline. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I like the storyline and how the game plays out, but i just wasn't sure about 
 it... I remember thinking to myself "Oh, where is my Oblivion disc at"? But I stuck with it and 
 played it and eventually grew to like it more and more. The thing I didn't like is that not all 
 of the game took place in the old times. I would have liked the game MUCH more if the game was 
 100% played in the period Altair was in. 
  
  But enough about me complaining about the story, on to the game!
  
  The game is beautiful. 
 The graphics are amazing, the way the environment plays out with the character, the way Altair 
 can move through the city, climb up walls, sprint on rooftops and stuff. The way he moves through 
 the cities ultimately make the game. I think this is most environmentally active games I have played 
 (at least until Star Wars: The Force Unleashed comes out) . You can climb up a wall, run from one 
 roof to the other, jump off the side of the building and land into a haystack, jump out quick and 
 knife a guy in the back! Pretty sweet actually. 
  
  The fighting style is pretty fun at first, but then gets repetitive. Kinda like all the side missions 
 you have to do before you can do the real assassination. The fighting is either sword or throwing 
 knifes, and if you get into a fight while you have your assassins knife activated, you fight with 
 a short sword, which kinda sucks for large fights. The throwing knifes are awesome for rooftops 
 fights, just climb up the wall, lock onto the guy and throw the knife and he falls off the roof 
 and you hear all the people go "Ahhh, what happened here"? The sword play is pretty fun, but allot 
 of the fighting is blocking and counter attacks. 
  
  The voice acting was great as well. I can't stress enough at how much voice acting and cut scenes 
 make the game for me. Without good cut scenes and voice acting, the game just kinda blows. Speaking 
 about cut scenes, the ones in Assassins Creed were mediocre. They could have been better, but then 
 that gets back into the storyline;) They were sometimes boring and I wish I could have skipped 
 through them at times, but if you pay attention enough, you can follow the storyline good and know 
 what's actually going on before it actually happens.
  
  Another side mission you can do is find all the flags in the cities and the Kingdom, which if you 
 own a PS3, it is absolutely useless to find them. On the 360, you get achievements if you find 
 all the flags in the cities and the Kingdom. It is kind of lengthly to find them all, but if you 
 are an Achievement whore (like me) then it's kinda fun to do... There are plenty of sites that 
 have very detailed maps of where they are located. 
  
  All in all, I gave it a 9, because even though it got repetitive and the storyline could have been 
 better, it could have been allot worse! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skolezy
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was in production for 4 years and finally it arrived on the XBOX 360 and PS3 last 
 year, after playing the game its safe to say it was worth the wait. I mean, playing an assassin 
 in a sandbox environment, could it get any better?!
  
  The story is confusing and strangely immersive, playing as an assassin you're stripped of your 
 rank at the start of the game after betraying your fellow brothers. Travelling to each of the cities, 
 Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem you are assigned different investiagations, these consist on spying, 
 beating up and stealing from enemies. After performing a number of them you'll continue on to the 
 main target for the investigation. 
  
  Though there are many glitches scattered through the game, Assassins Creed is still very enjoyable, 
 the combat is simple and fun to play with the stunning character visuals making the game especially 
 good to look at. Apart from the flags to collect in each city there isn't really anything to go 
 back to, though with that said there's still plenty to explore with the wonderful environments, 
 (I suggest finding the high points to see what I mean) . 
  
  With a few gameplay issues that can be easily sorted for the sequel in a few years time I can definately 
 reccomend Assassins Creed to anyone who wants an interesting and pleasant experience for at least 
 10 hours.
  
  A great game with problems that may take some patience to get around. Worth a look nevertheless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viruks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Assassin Creed is, hands down, a beautiful game, this game has some of the best lighting effects 
 on 360 so far, great shadow effects, often seem almost perfect. The cities are HUGE. You can easily 
 get lost in them (thankfully you have a map) . Brilliant looking architecture, in all three cities 
 that seem unique and have their own design styles. Every major area, city has its own atmosphere 
 brining the medieval ages to life. The texture work and the HDR lightning effects on the buildings 
 and characters stand out nicely, especially if you have HD TV to play it on. Some buildings look 
 so good you just want to climb every one of them, AND you CAN! This feature is very well done!
 
  
  This game does however contain minor glitches, but it is easily forgivable considering the scale 
 of it. It does feel repetitive as other reviewers mentioned, but it isn't necessarily a negative 
 thing since the game is just plain fun to play and you do tend to enjoy doing some things over 
 and over again thanks to the great engine of the game and its smooth character controls (prince 
 of Persia comes into mind) You get used to the controls very quickly, running on top of buildings, 
 climbing any structure; the character just manages to reach out for the furthers edge and eventually 
 make it in order to pull himself up. I personally was amazed by the horse in this game, this is 
 a startling feature, and probably the best horses in any game I've seen so far. 
  
  The Combat system as well as climbable buildings, is one of the main features that make this game 
 stand out in my opinion. Some of the best sword fighting techniques implemented in this game. The 
 combat just looks and feels really cool and very brutal on many occasion makes you want to kill 
 over and over again. Very smooth and easy to use! Your character develops with time as you learn 
 more moves and acquire new weapons, after certain missions. Therefore you always want to get out 
 there and kill again and run to your hide out, however you don't have to run, I haven't noticed 
 any penalties after slaughtering all the guards, leaving the whole district covered in bodies and 
 just strolling away into the crowds. 
  
  The cities feel alive, with hundreds of NPCs going around on their daily tasks, you can push, grab, 
 punch, throw, stealth kill, brutally kill any NPC! 
  Stealth kills are great in this game some can be hard to implement, but you get the hang of it. 
 All in all combat is brilliant, and you will play this game because of it; if not for the story 
 line, running and climbing on buildings etc.
  
  The storyline is interesting that keeps you going, an interesting approach of the present and the 
 past which is to do with our DNA that stores memories from our ancestors. Interesting plot and 
 somewhat believable. However this could be developed and presented better still, and the missions 
 could be more involving and less repetitive. Voice acting is also very good, that sets the mood 
 for the environment and generally the overall atmosphere of the game. One major concern is that 
 I expected day and night to the game, and the character probably could change his outfit, to dark, 
 carrying out mission during the night. Because of the games free roaming feature they should have 
 implemented more interesting side missions between storyline missions. 
  
  This game has a huge potential to be superb, but lost it through repetitive missions, a short story 
 line and lack of side missions to mix things up. 
  However the game is still very fun to play, beautiful graphics ( if this is your key feature to 
 a brilliant game) , an amazing combat system, great animation, very good voice acting, fun to play 
 even if very repetitive.
  
  In my opinion Assassin Creed is a Great Game, definitely a worth play. A game with high potential 
 which sets a standard for games out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parkour21
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Assasins Creed was definitetly a game rushed to get to the shelves. The entire game is the same 
 thing. Except for the assasinations you do the same things to get there. After a while it does 
 get rather boring and you start to wonder is this ever going to finish. On a good note though the 
 graphics are extraordinary. I have personally never seem graphics like that before. Utter perfection. 
 The gameplay was good but like i said repetitive.
  I really do hope there is an Assasins Creed 2 because i would certainly buy to see what aspects 
 of the original they have changed. I would buy to see if they have come further with those amazing 
 graphics. Also to see if the general gameplay and storyline has changed for the better. The storyline 
 on the original Assasins Creed was in a way predictable but you didnt see it coming sort of thing 
 if you catch my drift. Before it came out everyone was saying, Assasins Creed is game of the year. 
 Now we no Fable 2, GTA 4, COD 4, HALO 3 and Saint Row 2 are up there with the game of the year. 
 But everyone got so hyped about this 1 game, then realised after they bought it that it wasnt what 
 it was cracked up to be. If i could make a reccomendation for anyone wanting this game because 
 they played it at a friends or so on, wait, just wait for the sequel to emerged and buy it with 
 no doubt, no nothing just but and see what happens. That's what i should of done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenczas9
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is good to look at. That is it!!!! Seriously i've played through 30% of the game 
 and I'm never going back. I can't believe Ubisoft would release such a repetetive game! This is 
 the whole game:
  Go to Assasin leader. Climb tower. Pickpocket dude. Find info on who to kill. Kill him. Repeat.
 
  
  The story is really boring, it takes forever to get places, the music is pitiful, the gameplay 
 isn't well thought out, and the story is one of the worst I've ever seen. This game is so stupid 
 I don't even think it deserves a 6.... I gave it that because the graphics carry it through.
  
  Im seriously wondering if Gamespot got paid off by Ubisoft because this game is a piece of 
 junk and it belongs in a garbage disposal.... much less my xbox360.
  
  Trust me... wait for the new Prince of Persia. This game blows. RENT IT BEFORE YOU BUY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordWaspy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  For me, it is one of the most impressive games ever made. The graphics are amazing, then gameplay 
 is spectacular and the overall feel of the game is out of this world. Set during the crusades you 
 play as Altair, an Assassin who at the beginning of the game loses his rank in society as he allows 
 an enemy to escape. You must help him get his reputation back by doing missions.
  
  My favourite part of the game is the free roaming. Although it has a story line, you can go just 
 about anywhere, as long as you have unlocked it. You can travel to many cities and do many tasks, 
 including assassinations and saving civilians.
  
  I would highly recommend this game as it is by far one of the best games I have ever played and 
 there is always something to do! Also because it is a one of a kind game and in my opinion, there 
 is not another game that could come near to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has been a high-class project brewing over at Ubisoft for years, and now the long-since-earned 
 "Best of E3" award-winning game has hit stores. An odd mix of Prince of Persia style platforming, 
 stealth, and absurdly-beautiful graphics has merged with some go-anywhere GTA-style exploration, 
 all while taking place in the ancient Middle East. It took a while for me to get interested in 
 this game (mostly my friend telling me of how awesome it was) but I finally got around to reviewing 
 this "gem." But is it really?
  
  Let's get this out of the way first: Assassin's Creed is beautiful. I've played many an Xbox 360 
 game before, but there's no denying how smooth and massive the world is, all with only a few hitches 
 in graphics. The world of the Kingdom is richly animated and realistically designed. Foliage moves 
 in the wind and the characters themselves look and move the way any normal human would. But once 
 you get over how realistically the game's engine operates, you'll venture into the cities, which 
 are just plain stunning. They are huge, and after climbing a tremendous tower and getting a look 
 at the cities, you realize that Assassin's Creed has a serious knack for graphical astonishment. 
 Drop down to ground level and you see a true city world, full of individually animated city dwellers. 
 Ubisoft also packed in some amazing sound design, from the high-quality voice acting to the hustling 
 world of an ancient city. Hearing the world sound so alive makes the presentation that much better. 
 Voices will overlap and echo. The sound of a merchant may subdue the sound of a villager in distress. 
 Pack in a great cinematic score and the sound design matches up with the excellent visual effects. 
 The cities are some of the most immersive worlds ever seen on the Xbox 360; you really begin to 
 see a real city upon entering, full streets and vast building vistas altogether. Assassin's Creed 
 steps up on what the 360 is capable of accomplishing, and it's a remarkable technical achievement 
 in its own right, both graphically and sound-wise.
  
  Assassin's Creed would look like it was an odd mix of Middle Eastern influence during the time 
 of the Crusades. It would look like the story of an up-and-coming assassin named Altair out to 
 assassinate nine enemies to give himself respect and trust in a secret organization called the 
 Creed. It would look like that, but guess what? It isn't. Instead it's implanted as genetic memory 
 from a bartender in the near future named Desmond who partakes in an odd experiment to unlock memories 
 from an ancestral code. Yeah, it's a science fiction game. However, the game does a really good 
 job of getting your attention once you enter a real mission to assassinate an enemy. The story 
 is extensive and once the past and future begin to intertwine, the real story is revealed. It sounds 
 like a bad idea, and at times, it is, but it's actually pretty interesting, at least through a 
 single playthrough.
  
  Controlling Altair is actually pretty interesting. The developers have long since announced their 
 style of control, where each face button controls a different body part. The A button controls 
 the feet; holding A lets Altair enter a "low-profile" appearance, a gameplay element that makes 
 him seem inconspicuous and blend in. X controls the weapon hand, whose possession can range from 
 a sword or knives, to cooler weapons like the hidden blade. B lets Altair seem inconspicuous as 
 well, allowing him to pass through a crowd of people with a gentle push of his right arm. Y lets 
 you enter vision, or if you're hidden well enough, Eagle Vision to see enemies or essential figures 
 in the mission. Holding the R-trigger lets Altair enter "high-profile" mode, where he moves slightly 
 faster, but also makes it easier for enemies to suspect him. Controls vary in certain situations, 
 like climbing buildings or riding horses, but are quite functional, allowing the player access 
 to the fluid action in the world of Assassin's Creed.
  
  Altair must also monitor his Creed, a special ability used in the stealth elements of the game. 
 Getting too close to a guard, running over people with your horse, or climbing on the outside of 
 buildings in a busy city (basically making any type of scene) will send the guards or any other 
 enemy on your tail. This is more dangerous in high-profile mode, where simply walking five feet 
 from a guard will cause them to tail you for miles, which most likely will draw you into combat. 
 Combat is moderately complex; pressing the X button at certain points in combat will allow for 
 a stronger attack, and different attacks like tackling and counterattacking make combat smooth. 
 It's cinematic, though it's not entirely fun when ten angry guards decide to chase you and pick 
 a fight. It would've been cooler for a slightly more complex combat engine, but it must be merited 
 that the developers didn't show a tremendous combo system full of useless techniques like in other 
 similar action games.
  
  The gameplay mostly follows the travels of Altair earning different missions and traveling through 
 the Kingdom, all leading up to the high-intensity moments of the assassination assignments. Altair 
 earns missions from the Assassin's Bureau, the high order that Altair must prove himself to in 
 order to obtain respect, trust, and new techniques. These usually follow the path of exploring 
 the Kingdom for the next city, completing simple tasks to improve your "Assassin Memory," while 
 finally gaining enough completed tasks to confront one of nine dangerous enemies to kill in the 
 name of the Creed. It's pretty routine, but Assassin's Creed's immersion makes the game a bit different 
 in certain areas. The big deal is that Altair can pretty much go anywhere in a city. The nimble 
 and acrobatic guy can climb buildings and run atop their roofs pretty seamlessly (at the expense 
 of his stealth, of course) and outrunning a slew of city guards on the rooftops then diving into 
 a pile of hay is fun. It's interesting how this "Prince of Persia" style of platforming can be 
 integrated in such a free-roaming environment, and it's even more interesting that it actually 
 works.
  
  But if the storyline isn't enough for you, there are side missions. If you see a villager getting 
 harassed by some city-dwellers, feel free to step in and save them. You can also improve your map 
 by finding high-rising towers as vista points. The main missions also provide some interesting 
 gameplay elements, like pickpocketing, interrogating, and eavesdropping. You can also search for 
 hidden flags, items, and templars to kill, for all you completionists out there. At first, these 
 are pretty cool. Appearing from the rooftops to save the day is cool the first time around, and 
 you do get a moderately interesting reward each time. The problem is that these side missions are 
 reused to the point of insanity. You'll be accomplishing these same mission types over and over 
 and being that they are required to progress through the game, this makes this concept much worse 
 than it should be. So, aside from the storyline, Assassin's Creed has some interesting things to 
 do, just not enough of them. It would've been cooler if they made the missions different or at 
 least a bit more complex, but that's not the case here. You will most likely get bored of the missions 
 after a while, which really cripples the game. It is fun for a while, but it just doesn't cut it 
 in the long run.
  
  Pros
  + Beautifully designed
  + Great sound design
  + Free-roaming acrobatics and stealth
  + Controls are easy to learn
  
  Cons
  - Story is 
 rather ridiculous
  - Combat is too simple
  - Side missions are repetitive
  - Stealth can be difficult in some areas
  
  Assassin's Creed is probably one of the best looking 
 and sounding games on any console, but just because it's beautiful doesn't mean that it's structurally 
 perfect. Running across rooftops is plenty fun and the missions provide a good sense of action, 
 but it just would've been better if there was more diversity or complexity to any of them. The 
 stealth system also manages to be troublesome, as the guards are either brutally persistent or 
 exceptionally paranoid. The combat is a bit too simple and the story seems to be pretty obscure, 
 but there are plenty of things in Assassin's Creed to be in awe over, so these problems don't get 
 too far in the way. It's surprisingly well done when it comes to free-roaming and the controls 
 work as planned. You also won't find too many games with as solid a presentation as Assassin's 
 Creed. Assassin's Creed has great moments and poor moments, sometimes successively, and it can 
 be pretty difficult to pinpoint how good the overall game is. It's undeniably immersive and can 
 be a blast to play, but it also suffers from some repetitive gameplay elements and a slightly sloppy 
 stealth system. It's different enough to recommend a rental, though you should definitely try the 
 game out before picking it up as a purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark-joker93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game is one of the best in graphics i have ever played, visuals, lightning. and 
 effects. Its just awesome. But heres the storyline, cool storyline but it's to repetitive i know the 
 games name is assassins creed so it has to be about killing people but the question is, why are 
 you killing so many people its so repetitive it gets boring, you can't play with anyone else, so 
 its like an antisocial game not insulting anyone just so you know, and to me it gets boring, and 
 there are somethings about the storyline somethings that are not in favor with the religion, like 
 jesus being a liar and things like that thats what i heard, and if i'm wrong then sorry but thats 
 what i heard . so great game but a weak storyline. It feels sometimes in the game like you're killing 
 a lot of inocent people. So i personally dont like it anymore.
  
  
  this was Dark-joker93 AKA MAX, hope i this helps you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  I was very hyped for this game, having followed it for a long while, and seeing the fantastic graphics 
 and engrossing story in the videos. However, when i finished playing i was disappointed.
  
  Good:
  
  Fantastic sharp graphics.
  
  The graphics are very sharp and detailed and bring 
 life to the city.
  
  Engrossing story.
  
  The story is well flehed out and very engrossing, with some fantastic twists leaving it open for 
 a sequel.
  
  Great sound.
  
  Great voice acting and sound affects as well as authentic music bring the game to life.
  
  
 Fun parkour style gameplay.
  
  Slick free running gameplay is a blast and the oppurtunitys to mess about are infinite.
  
  
 Fantastic atmosphere.
  
  The sound and feel of the whole game is highly engrossing and makes you feel like you are there 
 in the middle ages.
  
  Bad:
  
  Linear, samey missions.
  
  The ultimate downfall of the game, the missions had no variety whatsoever and it became ultimatly 
 mind numbing ploughing through the same mission with a different boss.
  
  No replay value.
  
  Linking in with the above, there is no reason to want to return to the 
 game, apart from to collect the extras for achievements, which are quite boring.
  
  Repetitive combat.
  
  Whilst the combat is slick, it is also highly repetitive and there are 
 not enough combos/moves therefore the combat becomes a chore.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Whilst i had a good time jumping around the city, the game quickly got boring as there was no variety 
 to it. This ultimatly proved to be its downfall. However polished the game was, it could not detract 
 from this fatal flaw.
  If they sort this out for the sequel, it'll be amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_reaper406
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, as I'm sure you inquired by my above statement, I did not enjoy assassins creed.... Hell, 
 my loathing for Assassins Creed runs deeper than that! The truth is I DESPISED Assassins Creed, 
 which is bizarre because I have yet to meet anyone who's opinion of the game differs from the usual 
 "amazing."
  My largest complaint with the game revolves around it's overall performance, in which Assassins 
 Creed did everything in it's power to ensure that I had a miserable **cking time. For example, 
 the protagonist, Altair, commenced in climbing a colossal cathedral tower, however ran out of fixtures 
 to hold on to. I proposed trying to shimmy onto the window sill to Altair's left, so I naturally 
 gently nudged the left analogue stick. Unfortunately, Altair misjudged my cautious actions, and 
 felt that a painful suicide is more satisfying than scaling a cathedral wall. Altair immediately 
 jumped to the left, and crashed onto the throngs of citizens, dying instantly.
  What the hell Ubisoft?!?!
  
  Lets begin a general rundown of assassins Creed.
  YOU will take 
 control of the disgruntled assassin extraordinaire Altair, who mistakingly jeopardizes a mission 
 he, and two other bleating pricks are entrusted to complete. Altair returns to his massive assassin 
 fortress only to be scolded like a misbehaving child for costing a comrade his life, and is demoted 
 from his prestigious rank of Guitar Hero... Er.... I mean Master assassin. 
  Makes a lot of sense right? Your responsible for a comrades death, so you must suffer a demotion 
 in rank!
  All of the sudden chaos ensues, and long story short, Altair must venture across distant lands 
 to slay various oppressive kings to obtain his lost honor!
  CUE ACTION THEMED MUSIC!
  Well, the storyline suddenly takes a bizarre science-fiction twist, which I do not which to revisit.
 
  Lets move onto the gameplay, Assassins Creed' s biggest flaw.
  The player will spend the remainder of the game traveling to the various cities, and completing 
 various tasks to gather information on the target. 
  Sounds interesting right? WRONG!
  The player is demanded to perform the same actions repeatedly per city, and each time the level 
 of difficulty remains in the "so easy a blindfolded chipmunk could do it" category. Also, I must 
 point out the frequent use of the "stealth" function in this game. In order to avoid suspicion 
 from nearby knights, the player is forced to hold the A button, reducing Altair's speed to that 
 of a crippled turtle. THIS IS A TERRIBLE IDEA!
  Call me stupid, but progressing through a citizen filled city at feet shuffling speed does not 
 define "pulse pounding action."
  This feature also struck me as quite peculiar, for guards wont even blink at the sight of a glinting 
 sword at your side, but will immediately give chase if you even remotely attempt a general walking 
 pace. It just seems so ridiculous to propose sandbox style gameplay in which you must travel at 
 inhumanly slow paces or suffer the consequences! The consequence being terrible sword fighting 
 mechanics! While Altair may be a masterful assassin, he handles a blade about as well as Paris 
 Hilton handles a career! Players will only watch in horrified dismay as Altair is literally tossed 
 across a street, and caught in cheap grab moves one cannot block until a certain point in the game. 
 Eventually the combat degraded into using Altair's counter attack over, and over, and over again, 
 which launches a brief custcene in which Altair quickly dispatches a foe. It's quick, cheap, easy, 
 but not entertaining.
  Now, some of you may be insisting, "You don't have to fight them, you can easily run away!" To 
 those of you who were thinking such a statement, I advise you spend a little more time paying attention 
 whilst reading. As explained earlier, Altair is a glutton for punishment, and handles like a Sloth 
 with down syndrom! All to frequently have I found myself attempting to climb a ladder, only to 
 scream "WHAT THE F*CK!" as Altair prefers running up one instead.
  He gets stuck behind corpses
  Makes extreme lefts and rights
  and feels more compelled to jump 
 across fixtures, rather than jump down as commanded!
  
  This is such a shame to bash such a gorgeous game, hosting such an infatuating character! But I 
 would rather out my eyes that sit through another playthrough.... 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  The main attractions of this game for me was the face in the crowd stealth system, and the free 
 running rooftop battles, and it's safe to say that neither disappoint. Where this game starts to 
 fall apart however is the sheer repetetiveness of each assassination. Spy on some guys, pickpocket 
 some guys, eavesdrop on some guys, beat some guys up, kill the final target, run like the clappers. 
 That seems to be the layout for the ENTIRE GAME, and the investigation missions feel tacked on 
 so that you don't finish the game in under an hour. There are ten assassinations, which may sound 
 like a lot, if we're talking of a game like Hitman, but we're not. Each one, if you get it right 
 first time, will take you half an hour tops. Only after you complete all the assassinations are 
 you treated to some variety, and that's when they shove on a rock solid penultimate level that 
 takes more time than it is worth. There are redeeming features of the game though, mainly during 
 time out from missions in Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem, the three cities featured in the game. 
 Even though I didn't realise that Damascus and Jerusalem were 2 different cities until it gave 
 me the option to warp to each, Acre is definitely the star of the bunch. It's semi ruined buildings 
 give much opportunity for free running, away from guards and templars (who funnily enough seem 
 to be just as able bodied as Altair, despite their armour...) . Seriously consider before buying, 
 a rental is probably in order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAceOfSkulls
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is my very first review on gamespot, so bear with it. I loved this game. The 
 experience it gives you is a new one. Some may say it is more of the same. Aren't most games now 
 days. What seperates a game from the others is how the different elements that make it up are combined. 
 This does it very well. You are give control of Altair back in 1191, during the Crusades. You are 
 arrogant, being one of the top assassins of your time. Due to your arrogance, you cause a disaster 
 for your guild that results in you being stripped of you rank and weapons. To redemn yourself you 
 must kill certain people which your master assigns you to. In addition, there is another story 
 going along, explaining why Altair is in a gamelike environment (not just that a person can some 
 how press the X button in real life like most omnipotent tutorial voices would have you believe)
 
  Some of the elements that add to this game are the 2 storylines that you go through, the freedom 
 to go where you want and fight almost however you want (you aquire new moves from your master which 
 if you use makes the game never get old) , beautiful environments, as well as a setting that has 
 not been used yet in this type of game.
  However there are some elements that forced me to give this an 8. One of those would be the inability 
 to skip cutscenes (especially those in chapters you visit after completing the game where you have 
 access everywhere and all the weapons) . Also, there are no subtitles, which due to some accents 
 or hearing impediaments you may have, cause you to miss key points in the game. Also, it seems 
 ubisoft is using (ie copying) some of their Prince of Persia game elements (which makes it hard 
 to say this was evolution in gaming) . Plus, if you don't use the different moves the master teaches 
 you and continue to play the game in a regular button press sort of gameplay where you continue 
 to use the same weapons, the game will devolve into a boring expierence. Also, you have to focus 
 on both storylines or you won't feel the plot truely develop.
  However, overall I feel the game is a great part of gaming history. Its graphics and gameplay were 
 a good enough for me to overcome the problems it has. You should definitly pick it up once you 
 have gotten the essiential 360 games like Halo 3, GTA 4, CoD4, and GoW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corvan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  While riding on that horse of your choice to your first target, you enter the main area of Damascus. 
 Coming down that cliff you get to see the sheer size of the town just from outside the walls. The 
 Beauty of Assassin's Creed cannot be denied. This game looks simply amazing.
  
  Despite a few flaws in the game that are only minor annoyances, the gameplay is still quite enjoyable 
 and very fun later on in the game. 
  
  The fight system is more along the lines of defense combat. Where most are use to going in sword 
 or axe swinging at the nearest head, in Assassins Creed you lie in wait for the perfect moment 
 to strike a one hit kill in a very nice way. Though the combat system does have a decent learning 
 curve to it, with the timing of strikes being the biggest part of it. A true master of it can fight 
 with the hidden blade and win. 
  
  Another small annoyance is the lack of verity in the missions leading up to the actual kill itself 
 is only a small annoyance it does take away from the realism just a bit. Go here look around, pickpocket 
 Listen in on conversations etc.
  
  The Storyline is one of the most original and most compelling stories ive ever listened to. Never 
 seen anything else like it and i must say is quite the high point of the game. I won't spoil it 
 for those who haven't played it, but for those who want a very well put story you should at least 
 rent the game if not buy it.
  
  With few load times even between the cities of Damascus, Arce Jerusalem and Masyaf the Kingdom 
 itself is quite large. Do not let the size of the land discourage you though.
  
  Even with the flaws it has, Assassins Creed is still a highly enjoyable that I will put my credit 
 to of you must play at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frenchtoast213
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. I dont see anything wrong with this game because it only got a 9.5. 
 I would give it a ten out of ten. This game is great because you have the ability to move aroun 
 an entire city and do what you want, you could stalk the rooftops or eavesdrop on civilians or 
 cause massive chaos by just slaying random people and watch as locals run screaming in fear form 
 a flagpole. the only problem with the game is that it doesnt switch from day to night but if it 
 did you would feel ten times more like an assassin if you could roam the streets at night. And 
 also if people went to bed in the cities and you could sneek into peoples houses that would be 
 even cooler man. This is one of the greatest games ever made and the game second to this one is 
 Prince of Persia 3 which was cool. I also think that Assassin's should have a stealth kill system 
 but i guess the fact that people dont really notice you is basically the stealth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades10_29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed where do I start? Well I have to admit that I got absorbed by the Animus! (Great 
 Matrix sort of concept) . This game can get to be really demanding but exciting at the same time, 
 the adventure, action, environment, theme, history, fight styles, characters everything was carefully 
 created for you to enjoy.
  Regarding graphics, the game wont disappoint you it looks sharp and nice (I have an Xbox 360; 
 I assume it looks good at the PS3, and PC version as well) . Sound effects well awesome, especially 
 when you're attacking someone with your sword  it sounds very cool and organic. 
  Game play is not impossible to master (I've got the feeling that Altair is able to do more acrobatic 
 moves than the ones I learned) . I really appreciate this, because this game wont have your swearing 
 at the game developers and blaming at the machine, this game is fairly difficult, this means it 
 wont be too soft on you, but dont expect it to be a piece of cake  especially at the latter 
 stages. 
  Summary: This is a must have game in your collection, regardless if you are a hardcore gamer or 
 a casual player as I am. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swanogt19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot that can be said about Assassin's Creed, and it's hard to chose what to say about 
 it. Graphics wise this game is great. Everything looks beautiful and things move quite well, however 
 a few small glitches can be seen here or there. The leaps of faith look awesome as you perform 
 them and the view points look great as well. Gameplay is good but does get repetitive. That may 
 bother some people but it didn't bother me to much.
  
  Story wise Assassin's Creed has the most unique storyline I've ever seen in a videogame. It grips 
 you from the start until the finish..... which sadly pulls an ending similar to the season finale 
 of Lost. In other words it leaves with questions. I hated not having answers but also liked in 
 a bit.
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed gives you a smile most of time but can also give you anger. Either way 
 its a game that shouldn't be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rmpltzr
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This review focuses on Assassin's Creed's problems. The game's strong points have been repeated 
 ad nauseam so there is no need to repeat them here.
  
  Assassin's Creed is one of the more over-rated games in recent memory. While the game serves up 
 an excellent story, beautiful visuals, and satisfying kills, it is marred by poor controls, camera 
 issues, and repetitive game play.
  
  First up are the controls. Guiding Altair through the game's obstacles is fun when undercover. 
 However, when the guards are after you, quickly negotiating the beams, walls, shop stands, and 
 other set pieces becomes clumsy and frustrating. You'll often find yourself grabbing onto something 
 you didn't intend to, or wall jumping when you intended to climb, allowing your enemies to knock 
 you down with swords, rocks, or arrows.
  
  Second is the camera. Often during battles, especially when saving a citizen, you will find yourself 
 pushed into a corner, with the camera against the wall, zoomed in on the top of your head. Other 
 times the camera's view will become obscured by pieces of the environment, particularly the large 
 scaffolds found against fortress walls. The resulting poor vision means the player won't be able 
 to counter attacks or finish off the soldiers until managing to move back into a better view. Finally, 
 the most bothersome camera glitch is experienced after saving a citizen. After killing a vigilante's 
 tormentors, the player must quickly speak to the person then flee the scene to avoid getting caught. 
 After speaking with the rescued citizen, however, the camera angle fixes it self in the direction 
 of the vigilante, so if you need to flee in the other direction, you're basically stuck for about 
 five seconds, which is often the difference between getting away or being discovered and having 
 to flee using the poor controls.
  
  Finally we have what is perhaps Assassin's Creed's biggest downfall: repetitive game play. Each 
 assassination target is preceded by the same routine: 1. Climb viewpoints 2. Gather intel through 
 pick pocketing and eavesdropping 3. Save citizens. Despite the game's large environments, there 
 really is nothing to do outside the main quest (Unless you think the joy of flag collecting justifies 
 the free-roaming hype) . The only variation is found during the actual assassinations.
  
  Assassin's Creed certainly has its high points; however, the game's flaws keep it from fulfilling 
 its potential. Still, the reviewers generally raved about the game, giving it 5-star and 9.0 ratings. 
 How such glaring game play issues got past the experts is mysterious. One thing is certain: the 
 critics let us down on this one.
  
  Final verdict: this game is not worth buying. The story is interesting and a properly-executed 
 assassination is satisfying; therefore a rental and quick play-through is recommended. If you really 
 must own the game, don't pay more than $20. Wait until it hits the bargain bin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I've played tons of A list titles. I've played through max payne, Halo trilogy, Hitman, Oblivion, 
 GTA 3 & up, Turok, splinter cell, almost every CoD and MoH, gears, God of War, Bioshock... All 
 wonderful games. But of every game on that list Assassin's creed tops it.
  The Game is virtually perfect. Want to talk graphics? Even on my crappy 1996 Panasonic, it looks 
 AMAZING. Unlike most "realistic" games, it explores all spectrum of colors. Everything is bright 
 and vibrant where it should be, and the game can also be dull and toned down where it needs to. 
 You've got 4 huge cities to explore, plus a "Kingdom" that connects all of them. You will see all 
 types of architecture, of building styles, clothing styles, rich areas, poor, middle class, thugs, 
 public speakers, oppressive guards... It's really well done in terms of art direction, technical 
 prowess, and variety. The animations and physics are also top-notch. There is no pop-in, no major 
 glitches ( The only glitch I've seen was Al-Mualim's head went through a tapestry for .12 of a 
 second) , the shadows look great, and everything is crisp, detailed, and life like. The game really 
 shines in making you feel as if it's a living place. Everything moves, every thing flows, and it 
 feels very lifelike. The textures on everything look amazing, even in SD. If you want to show of 
 an HD setup, this is a go-to game. It's probably a shade better than Gears in terms of graphics.
 
  And you'll want surround sound as well. The music is very well done. It fits the settings and 
 time period well, and it is either mellow, in the background, blending in, or fast and high paced, 
 during battles sequences. The attention to sound detail is great as well. You can stare at a horses 
 feet while galloping, and notice that the sound is cued up EXACTLY when it hits the ground. Video 
 and audio are always synchronized. The sound effects are also very good. You can hear children 
 running and laughing, birds twittering, guards whining, merchants shouting, wind blowing... If 
 you stand up and close your eyes, you'd swear you were in a real city. Even better is the audio 
 immersion. When some one is in front of you talking, you feel like the sound is coming from in 
 front of you ( I've got a gaming chair, so It's actually coming from behind) . A lot of Devs recycle 
 and and re use the same music an sounds, but the team at Ubisoft really took time to work on this.
 
  Then you've got the gameplay. The main new mechanic is the ability to climb your surroundings. 
 Anywhere you can see, you can go. You are actually encouraged to climb to the tallest points, as 
 it reveals more of the map, as well as being ******* awesome! It is so much fun to feel like an 
 action star, sprinting and juping across the city. It works very well, the controls make it very 
 easy, but still rewarding when you get to the top of a building. Also, Don't think it's like Mario. 
 You don't just walk on the surfaces, and one foul stroke of the analog stick and you're screwed. 
 You "Stick" to surfaces your climbing. For example, when you run across a beam or plank, just hold 
 down the right trigger and press forward on the Control stick. Even if you try pushing diagonally, 
 Altair doesn't go plummetting to his doom. Really, I'd recommend a Demo, or playing it at a friends 
 house to really get it.
  Some other mechanics include the stealth system and the socially acceptable moves. The Stealth 
 is self explanatory, and being that ubisoft has done very well with Splinter Cell, they've taken 
 the best parts of it and added it into elements of Hitman. You can "Blend" and pretend to be a 
 scholar, as well as hide in "Hide spots" like benches, roof gardens and hay piles. Now obviously, 
 if you go sprinting down the street doing long jumps over people, in real life, people would be 
 somewhat annoyed. In Assassin's Creed, there are socially acceptable actions, which will make the 
 guards leave you alone, and let you blend into the crowd, like lightly pushing people out of the 
 way, walking, blending, or jogging. Doing things like sprinting, Jumping, tackling people, brandishing 
 weapons, bumping into people, and breaking things, tends to raise attention. If the gaurds are 
 relaxed, IE no dead bodies, the threat meter is white, they are just going about their day, they 
 will leave you alone when you do high profile things. They will call you stupid, and comment on 
 your strange-ness, but no violence. However, if the gaurds are tensed, like if there are dead bodies 
 nearby, or a Hit has just been carried out, those high profile actions will cause them to attack 
 you. It works really well.
  The Story has 2 plots, one is Sci-Fi, and one is the assassin's. They are both very good, and only 
 one has a crappy ending. I'll leave it at that.
  Overall, it's an amazing experience, with tons to do, a great story, great Sights and sounds, and 
 a fun feeling to it, as well as a great new innovation with the climbing system. Buy it. I played 
 it For a Week straight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeM760soCAL
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed seriously gave me the chills the first time I played it! This is my favorite game 
 on the X box 360. I never would have expected this game to deliver such an awesome experience. 
 This game has such innovative graphics that you just want to spend time checking out its world. 
 The views are incredible and the game developers did such a good job creating it. You play as a 
 assassin named Altair which is probably the most determined character I know. The story has a good 
 plot in my opinion. I am definitely looking forward to the sequels. I hear that Assassins Creed 
 will be developed into a trilogy! I would recommend this game to any gamer that is out there. There 
 are very few mistakes however the only thing negative that I will say is that the game can get 
 a little repetitive. Overall I guarantee that you would be satisfied with purchasing Assassins 
 Creed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddlkll
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed a game where you go across the land in for redemption for your masters. Assassin's 
 Creed is the first in a franchise of games based on assassin warriors in ancient times. Many times 
 fun.
  
  --Story --
  Assassin's Creed is based off of ancient Israel. You play as Altair, a person sent to kill nine 
 people from a list after a mission goes horribly wrong. All of these people have some connection 
 with each other and as the game goes on you will find more about this connection. The game ending 
 is not that good though as their really is not a cut off point. The game pretty much gives you 
 an achievement and that is how you know the game is over.
  
  --Gameplay --
  Assassin's Creed gameplay is fun but gets repetitive at the end. The assassination missions go 
 like this: A. Find the city that you want to go to. B. Do missions to learn about your assassination 
 target. C. Kill the target and escape. You can also do little like sub missions like climbing towers 
 to get a view on your map and saving civilians to stop the guard anytime. The missions can range 
 from Pickpocketing to spying.
  
  --Sound and City's --
  The sound of and the Citys are really good. The sound sounds pretty good and the city is bustling 
 with people trying to do their errands. If you stop to take in the sights then you may find some 
 of it breathtaking. But then again their are some graphic pop ups every now and then.
  
  --Overall --
  This game is good and should be considered as a buy. Most every works the way they 
 should and the characters don't get boring. My overall score for this game is 8 out of 10. "Now 
 go kill something." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  If there was an award for "visial art production in vidio games" (there propably is) This Game would 
 give ace combat 6 mass effect and call of duty 4 a run for there money. With a gripping story that 
 could make bioshock bow down and a twist at the end that can make m knight shamalon cry this game 
 is worthy of the tital "Masterpiece" With the revolutionary but vary simpel controls and the amazing 
 counters ( My favorets are with the hidden blade) and an ending that leaves you thursty for more 
 of altier and his ancestory kick a** family of top notch assassins. An open world game that leads 
 you along a path but gives you enough freedom to get the dirty work of the creed done your own 
 way. My only qwarl with the game is its slight repetetivness. With the abilety to go into a computer 
 mutch like the matrix (but better) This game leaves you waiting for somthing more, and unlike meny 
 games the ending in this one wont leave you dissapointed. and the epic battle at the end is just 
 amazing with side qwest and over 24 hours of story game play this game is one of the beast games 
 of one of the best gameing years ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivekananth
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  the assassins creed is a grate game ok first the game play its awesome, the entire game play is 
 based on park our and free running and each and every object are interactive but every assassination 
 are not so unique so i give 8.7/10, then the graphics, its so much detailed even in 720p, so i give 
 9.0/10, the last is story, Perfect story. When you begin the game your face should have a confused 
 expression as you start in a blurry world where your running from something but you can't figure 
 out what your doing. It evolves into an intriguing story that pulls you in. Its a story in the memory 
 of Desmond and what he sees through Altair's eyes becomes a large plot that leaves you hanging 
 on your seat by the credit sequence... just um... don't fall on your Xbox... Overall 9.5/10
  Great game play and Story but its just a bit repetative after a while. i wish assassins creed 2 
 is on the way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  So let's talk about repetitive. This is a terrible way to start a review, but let's talk about 
 repetitive. The cool stuff about Assassins Creed last only until you get to Acre, so let's talk 
 about repetitive. You start out with this super cool list of weapons, abilities, and damage, and 
 it's all taken away form you and you need to prove yourself worthy of carrying your rank again, 
 but let's talk about repetitive. 
  This game's largest flaw is that it's repetitive. Every section of every city has six investigations 
 to complete in the following categories: pickpocket, eavesdrop, interrogate, and via informer. 
 The all also have anywhere between 6-12 towers to climb and 6-12 citizens to save. Saving all the 
 citizens either gets you thugs in the streets to aid you or scholars to wander and hide in. There's 
 also only two ways to get into any city: fight your way in or walk with a group of scholars. There's 
 no wall to climb to sneak in, and no one will let you in unless all the guards are dead or ignoring 
 you. Oh, and there's always four guards at every entrance. Basically the cities are the same in 
 every way save for design. You finish the city by reporting your findings and then assassinating 
 someone in the end, same pattern many times over. It's very repetitive and that's the games largest 
 downfall. 
  But anyway, this game has taken a huge step in the world of interactive environments in the next 
 generation systems. I enjoyed being able to climb anything, throw people into wooden structures 
 and watching them collapse, fading into the crowd of wandering NPCs, and assassinating guards by 
 the thousands. It's tempting to run around and call attention to Altair, the main character, and 
 kill 25 or 50 guards in one fight. It's also way too much fun to sneak up on the bosses of the 
 cities and kill them in one shot.
  Then it gets repetitive again. Every time you kill one of these bosses, one shot or not, they give 
 you a speech. One time, i stuck my hand blade right into a dude's throat, which was bleeding in 
 a cinematic, and he talked all about his plans for a good three minutes. And they always want to 
 talk about their plans. ALWAYS! It was never like, "Aw crap, you stabbed me in the throat I'm just 
 gonna choke on my own blood and die", it like, "Hey, lemme tell you some stuff that'll make you 
 suspicious about your job."
  There's this feature called eagle vision. I never used it. The Y button could have a better reason 
 for being there.
  Whatever. I was often taken aback by the interaction of Altair has with the people he bumped into, 
 threw, and pushed past. It's VERY well done. As human-like as I've seen so far (though I've only 
 had a 360 for a month) . Pushing people around, counter moves, attacks, being hit, falling and dying, 
 all very rag doll and real too though there were times where I would die or kill someone and their 
 weapon or body would suddenly sly into the air about 50 feet before coming to a rest. 
  Voice acting and animations are very well done, despite the flamboyance. Altair is one hell of 
 a surly and unemotional fellow, and all the conspirators are very eloquent and expressive. The 
 ton of people wandering the streets are a bit lifeless and the voice acting of the beggars are 
 all way too repetitive though, and there's no variety of between cities. Ugh. 
  I love how all the spraying blood never gets on Altair's white clothes, and his blades get super 
 clean each time he puts them away. It's entertaining. 
  Some other cool stuff included the overall looming plot that doesn't happen in 1197, but in 2007 
 and a conspiracy involving artifacts. The whole plot involving Altair is about assassinations and 
 a really obvious plot line that is incredibly predictable, but the 2007 plot line involving Desmond 
 gets kinda tricky every time you come out of the machine that brings you back to the past. This 
 paragraph is not only complicated but vague, I know. Play the game to understand. 
  Other than the mechanics, the graphics are amazing if you count out the shadows. All the shadows 
 look boxy when close up, and that drives me crazy. But the visuals on top of towers and citadels 
 are all incredible. That gets tired after the first few dozen towers though. Don't get me wrong, 
 the first time you get up there all far above the people and buildings and the game gives you a 
 panoramic view, it's all like "wow", but soon becomes like "yeah yeah, lemme just jump off this 
 thing into this awaiting and conveniently placed hay stack that is always there to catch me when 
 I fall 1000 feet." 
  Things happen, I'm not gonna tell you everything, but there's a lot of betrayal and death and some 
 cool moves. If you want, you can complete everything and it gets you achievements, and you can 
 go completely insane working on finding all the Templars and flags that will drive you out of you 
 mind.
  I recommend this game, but try not to pay attention to anything but the main plot. In this way 
 you can avoid becoming frustrated with the repetitive nature of the game. You can avoid the repetitive 
 nature of the game. You can avoid the repetitive nature of the game. This game is good, pick it 
 up and play it, not worth a 9, but if they do make a sequel perhaps that game will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absolution065
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  From developers Ubisoft, makers of such the Tom Clancy games comes Assassin's Creed to break the 
 mould of the run of the mill book to game cash-ins. Although the cash-ins are usually really good. 
 You can't help but feel that this could be the long lost twin of the Prince Of Persia series, which 
 were some of the most fun games in the latter generation of consoles.
  
  Assassin's Creed takes the player back to the age of the The Third Crusade, the year 1191 to be 
 precise, where you take the role of Altair, an assassin from the Assassin's Creed, a group dedicated 
 to restoring neutrality in the Holy land by assassinating key figures from both sides. What separates 
 your character from the rest of the Creed is his remarkable fighting skills, and his rebellious 
 attitude which he takes towards the group. After failure to complete a mission which endangered 
 the life of his fellow assassin's, the Creed's leader, Al Mualim, strips you of your high rank, 
 making you have to work your way back up through the ranks by completing assassinations in the 
 surrounding cities. The game's plot line is very engaging, and at some points historically accurate, 
 with enough plot twists (one huge one at the start) and surprises requiring a few trips to Wikipedia 
 to understand what's going on, especially at the end of the game.
  
  The core element of the game is to travel to each historical city in the holy land, being Masayaf, 
 Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre, separated by vast plains which require you to travel by horse, if 
 you prefer. Once you have visited a city you can of course skip to it rather than trailing though 
 the plains again. There are nine assassination targets in total, three in each city. The assassinations 
 are the best moments in the game allowing the player to choose their own strategy and course of 
 action to take out the target, be it by running in blazing all guns (or swords in this case) or 
 by carefully sneaking around, unseen, pouncing on your prey with stealth. However, in order for 
 you to reach the point where you can actually assassinate your target you must first require information 
 on your target, most of the time by beating up people for information or pick pocketing evidence 
 from some poor sucker's robes. It is fun, only until you realise that you had done this before 
 in a previous city with a previous townsperson, and that the only reason you are doing all of them 
 is for the Gamerscore, which, I have to say, is generously thrown at you for you murderous deeds.
 
  
  The combat system is very unique and gives the player a feel for the brutality and intense fighting 
 which existed in the Middle Ages. I found much amusement in parrying some loser's attacks, countering 
 them with a stern chop with the sword through his collar bone. Your weapons aren't that varied 
 in this game, with the choice of a sword for fighting off hordes of enemies, the dagger and throwing 
 knifes for cracking skulls open and a quick, sneaky get away, oh and who could forget the hidden 
 blade. Awesome for giving guards a "special" hug, which involves them in a lot of pain. But seriously, 
 the fact that there are not that many weapons to choose from does not hamper the game at all, as 
 it suits your avatar as an assassin perfectly. People have also complained with the battle system 
 and how parrying is as difficult as performing open heart surgery on yourself, but I found it refreshingly 
 challenging and made the successful attack seem more satisfactory.
  
  Another huge element of the game is Altair's exceptional skill in scaling huge constructions. Altair 
 can climb almost any building that you can stand next to. By climbing ledges, cracks, windows, 
 features, you name it - Altair can scale it. The same system works for running, movement, and jumping 
 across rooftops, with about ten guards after you, is great fun. Just hold down "A" and off you 
 go. I have thought that this could be too basic and perhaps being to linear, however I can't see 
 how there is another way to control this. Your character is controlled in two different ways, separated 
 into socially acceptable actions (movements that won't reveal your presence and get the guards 
 on you) or actions that are designed to get you into a fight. By holding down the right trigger 
 you can alternate to dangerous actions from socially acceptable ones, although walking around as 
 a swaggering hoodie gets annoying with the need to kill making you want to cause 
 mayhem.
  
  The AI is usually very good. The townspeople seem very realistic with some, and I must say really 
 annoying (in a good way) beggar women who won't let you pass until you give them "just a few coins" 
 or boot to the head. A boot to the head being a favourite. Lepers also come into play by pushing 
 you when you do not want it, and I mean when you are trying to avoid the guards. So a boot to the 
 head sorts them out. The enemy AI is great, to an extent where the think they can jump from a tall 
 building and survive, only to fall to their death. But the player can't complain really.
  
  Assassin's Creed is one of those games where you can just have fun, with a fully open, living environment 
 to wreck havoc on. My main problem with this game as it can be too addictive, to the point where 
 pot noodles and nappies become essential to maintain physical stability.
  
  
  Graphics: 9.5 - Truly breath taking in places, with character and building detail creating a very 
 realistic environment.
  
  Game play: 9.0 - Really simple and great for casual gamers as well as pro gamers.
  
  Sound: 
 8.5 - Great sound effects like the clashing of swords, as well as a suitable soundtrack, which 
 can get annoying when your running for your life.
  
  Length/Story: 9.0 - The core story itself is not that long, but you can easily flesh that out with 
 the many hidden flags which can be collected throughout the cities. The story is great, confusing 
 at times, but sets it up very neatly for a awaited sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRAKOOZ
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  but.....
  has anybody noticed the repetition in each town? well so far i played until the third mission and 
 i visited all 3 towns and i found that the same things happening as of the side objective like 
 rescuing citizens, the pickpocketing very easy and so and so.. only the difference is in the story 
 each on has... which i think it could be better told in another way.
  this what makes u feel bored sometimes, especially if you want to finish all the side objectives.
 
  view points sometimes feels the same, the guards could be more smarter espcialy when u kill someone 
 next to them... i imagine it could be like commandos game when they spot anything wrong they shoudl 
 raise the alarm and bring more support, i think this will give little more challange for the game.
 
  all the remaining is amazing, from the details, to the story to the textures, to the scenes, to the 
 movements.. all are amazing.
  can't wait to finish more and more of this games...
  hope we can discuss more about this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adakin01
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  this is the game i have always been waiting for and now it is here and i am amazed by it. i was 
 up all night yesterday because it is highly addictive and the storyline of the game is so amazing 
 i am in a mezmorized by the game. 
  
  
  the story is ALTAIR (your character) is in jerusalem and is faed with task's by the creed the nation 
 of the assassins to kill evil traders/merchants. but it is not all that easy as you have to spy, 
 pickpocket and beat people up for information on where and when your target will be when you want 
 to assassinate him.
  
  
  I highly reccomend all you readers to buy this game as i will probably complete this game about 
 3 times as to how i play it each time. their is no difficulty level but it is upto you how hard 
 you want it as if you push citizens over and hurt them the crowd/city will turn against you and 
 you will be in a constant battle of getting away which will make the difficulty of the game unpredictibly 
 hard.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truerune777
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Lets see... Where should i begin... Ok lets start with what kind of game this is. THIS IS NOT A STEALTH 
 GAME. No matter where you go theres always a quack complaining assassin's creed is a stealth game 
 but its not. Its an action game with stealth elements added to it. For example lets say your fighting 
 a big mob of guards and you bit more than you can chew. You run but you can't just hide somewhere 
 without breaking the line of site. So you do that and then you blend with priests, hide in a bale 
 of hay whatever and thats about the only stealth in the game.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  I really wish i could give it a 10 but i can't. The battles are intense and fun especially once 
 you get new skills. But you know every town you kill your 3 bosses and viewpoints and at some point 
 it gets reptetative. Luckily things spice up as you face stronger and bigger mobs though.
  
  Story 10/10
  Perfect story. When you begin the game your face should have a confused expression 
 as you start in a blurry world where your running from something but you can't figure out what 
 your doing. It evolves into an intriguing story that pulls you in. Its a story in the memory of Desmond 
 and what he sees through Altair's eyes becomes a large plot that leaves you hanging on your seat 
 by the credit sequence... just um... don't fall on your Xbox...
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  Great gameplay and Story but its just a bit repetative after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarmerJohn55
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is great! for the first few hours, then it gets very very boring, you play it once, maybe 
 mess around a little, and then nothing, other than that there is nothing else really to say. The 
 story line is interesting, and somewhat convoluted, but interesting none the less. The battles 
 are easy, yet very cool looking, it feels like your watching a movie most of the time. The missions 
 are repetitive, but some informant missions are interesting and diverse, while saving citizens 
 is boring and drawn out. It's also surprisingly hard to outwit the guards. Come the end of the 
 game, your happy you played it, and is good if your bored of your other games, as when you play 
 them again it all feels fresh, it merits a rent, maybe even more than once, but overall, it's only 
 fun for a while. By the way, assassinating random people, awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danthegamer32
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the main thing that will attract you to this game is its graphics, which are truly 
 remarkable. Not only are the character models very detailed, showing various facial expressions 
 and, for the main characters at least, some decent lip- syncing coupled with fantastic animations 
 that look surprisingly real. The cities the game is based in and the overall presentation of the 
 game are also of exceptional quality. The main menu comes in the form of the interface of the Animus, 
 the devise that brings to life the memories of one's ancestors, which certainly looks fantastic 
 and little intentional visual glitches (like data flashing up on the screen) remind you while playing 
 as Altair that you're an outsider looking in. The cities that you will be running around in are 
 also fun torun around in as well as just to watch. While the time of day never changes, the cityscape 
 never fails to impress, especially whe viewed from the highest tower in the whole city. On ground 
 level, the sun is partially blocked by the buildings, so the streets seem dark and gloomy, but 
 are always bursting with activity. Hundreds of people swarm the streets while guards are on patrol 
 or look out in the crowd, while archers litter the rooftops on the lookout for any pesky assassins. 
 In short, the graphics of Assassin's Creed are nothing short of spectacular.
  
  The story of the game is equally spectacular, featuring plenty of twists and turns, mainly during 
 the parts where you're not in the Animus itself. i won't give away the plot but i'll tell you that 
 things don't make connection between the past and the present (or future, it's not clear exactly 
 when Assassin's Creed takes place) straight away. While the story is very good, i can't help but 
 be disappointed with the abrupt way the story ends in the game. Be prepared to shell out an extra 
 50 for the second half (or third) of the game.
  
  Gameplay is where the game falls slightly short. While it is very fun, and it will keep you occupied 
 for a very long time, not wanting to play anything else, you will find yourself doing the same 
 tasks over and over before you start an assassination proper. these involve pickpocketing, eavesdropping 
 and interrogation. You can also help out troubled locals by fighting their adversaries. The fighting 
 is very fun, once you've learnt the counter moves. It's slick, cinematic and very violent, which 
 i like. The actual missions are very enjoyable and have several ways of doing them, although they 
 do eventually boil down to just killing anything that moves...
  
  Sound is good, satisfying sword sounds, fantastic music by Jesper Kyd and brilliant voice acting 
 from the whole cast, even the guards and civilians.
  
  Overall, a very well produced game that lacks some-what in varying the game-play. Still enjoyable 
 though and well worth a play, even if it's just for the story. 
  
  Score: 8.4/ 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crueltear
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed falls short of perfect with its repetitive events, the story is interesting (but 
 confusing) the gameplay will blow you away with the ability to climb anything sticking 3-inches 
 off the side of a wall, and the graphics are extremely detailed, but the problem is you do the 
 same thing pretty much the whole story. when you collect information you either eavesdrop, pickpocket, 
 or interrogate the predecessors of the target. then when you have the info you simply watch the 
 target piss people off with whatever got the price on his head, then when he finally shuts up you 
 kill him, and try to loss the guards so you can get back the the assassins guild before you are 
 killed. and you basically repeat that for the rest of the game. the game also has two side "quests" 
 you can do, collecting flags in the city's and field, or hunting down Templars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-antagonist
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  In the world of sequel games now-a-days it is nice to see a new IP put forth with such hype and 
 anticipation. Assassin's Creed, a Ubisoft Montreal production, is an action adventure game which 
 puts you in the role of a 12th century Assassin. The game promises a great story, graphics and 
 unlimited possibilities in the open cities. Does this game deliver of flop? The short answer, yes 
 it does. The long answer, well that might take some explaining.
  
  Assassin's Creed has had one of the worst kept secrets in all of video game history. It has a sci-fi 
 twist to the story, but the secret is unveiled within the first minute of play, which kind of makes 
 it like the kid who snuck into his parent's room before Christmas to see his present. However, 
 with out giving too much away about the story, the twist does set up the player for a great story 
 telling experience. It's just too bad that the ending of the game will leave gamers confused and 
 without a sense of closure, leaving the door open for a possible sequel.
  
  The game play in Assassin's Creed puts you in the shoes of a 12th century assassin, Altair, who 
 is tasked with taking out nine men who are displeasing the order you belong to. To take out the 
 nine men you will have to travel to three different cities. The first thing that you will notice 
 about these cities is that they are absolutely enormous, beautiful and really create a living breathing 
 atmosphere. Not enough can be said about these cities. The landscape is just beautiful with the 
 city stretching as far as the eye can see. The cities really come to life with their citizens. 
 There are actually thousands of citizens that walk the streets. Some will be having conversations 
 about the ongoing crusades, some will be buying from merchants, some will question your actions 
 if you make a scene, drunks will push you around, beggars will ask for coins and some will cry 
 out for help if they are being harassed by the city guards. All of these interactions in the cities 
 really help immerse you into the game and make you believe you are walking the streets of 1192 
 Jerusalem. This not only goes for the three cities but also for the area's in-between them. The 
 so called "Kingdom" is enormous and may actually take you 10  20 minutes to move from city to 
 city, but this can also be skipped by quick traveling to any city you have previously visited. 
 The only draw back to the cities, is that there is not a whole lot to explore in the cities themselves. 
 All of the game takes place outdoors and there is no reason to go exploring too much in the city 
 because there just isn't that much too see besides the buildings themselves, which of course are 
 beautiful. 
  
  While visiting each city the first thing you must do is visit the Assassin's Bureau. There you 
 will receive instructions on your target. But before you can assassinate him you must gather information 
 on him. This can be done by eaves dropping on conversations, pick pocketing special documents or 
 beating the information out of someone. There are six Intel missions to go on for each assassination, 
 unfortunately they rarely vary. You won't notice it for the first four or five assassinations but 
 after a while they will grow old on you and you will find yourself completing the minimum number 
 of missions before you can go assassinate your target. This is a large draw back for many gamers 
 and may even cause them not to finish the game due to its repetitiveness. 
  
  While on a Intel mission or an assassination make sure you watch your step while walking through 
 the city. Any none socially acceptable action will alert the guards, especially when you get to 
 the last couple assassinations, and they will take offense to you and try to take you out. This 
 is where the action part of the game takes place, after you have alerted the guards, whether it 
 was from climbing up a wall or assassinating your target. Guards will be in plentiful supply in 
 this game and will being trying to take you out. The main weapon you will be using is your sword. 
 While you still have your hidden blade for assassinations and throwing knives for long range attacks, 
 the sword is the most commonly used weapon in the game. At first when fighting the guards it will 
 simply be a button mashing affair. But as you progress through the game you will start to unlock 
 new moves, some of which are counter attacks. When performing a counter attacking the camera will 
 actually zoom in and play out the move in an almost cinematic experience which makes the fights 
 in the game a lot of fun to not only play but watch. However the combat A. I is somewhat lacking. 
 Enemies will attack you one at a time making the fighting somewhat easy especially once you learn 
 counter moves. 
  
  What if fighting isn't you style? If the guards attack you, there is an alternative to violence, 
 just as there always is in real life. You can run. This may seem like the cowards way about, 
 but the free running in Assassin's Creed is actually one of the best parts in the whole game, thanks 
 to the ease of use and the city's structures. Anything in Assassin's Creed can be climbed on, jumped 
 across or used for an escape route from the guards. Any wall can be climbed to access the roof 
 tops, and once there, the real fun begins. There will be wooden platforms, beams and other obstacles 
 you can use to create some of the coolest free running you have ever seen. And the best part of 
 it all is that it all looks organic. Nothing looks like it was set up for you to climb on, which 
 really adds to the cities authenticity. Not only does the architecture look organic, but so do 
 Altair's movements. Perfectly blending animations really make Altair a great character to watch 
 run around these worlds.
  
  When performing the actual target assassinations, a gamer would have hoped that they could have 
 carried it out in any way they anted to. The truth is that you can't. For every assassination there 
 is a specific place and time where you must carry out the hit, and for the most part only one way 
 to do it. You can try rogue methods to kill your target but usually you will just end up upsetting 
 the guards. The assassinations are still fun to complete, especially with their cinematic introductions 
 and ending sequences, but it would have been better to plan the hit how you wanted, instead of 
 taking a already planned route. 
  
  There are many side objectives to complete in the various cities ranging from helping a civilian 
 in distress, collecting flags scattered throughout the city or climbing look out points to give 
 you an eagle's eye view of the landscape. Probably the best side missions are climbing the various 
 building to get to the look out points. However, just like the Intel missions, the side missions 
 do get repetitive and dull. You will also see that they civilians being harassed by guards will 
 be in the same spot being harassed throughout the entire game, unless you save them, which takes 
 away from the whole experience. These side quests do offer more extended game play for anyone who 
 just can't put this game down. 
  
  So overall does this game deliver? Yes it does through the gigantic cities, citizens in the game, 
 the story, the action, and the free running. The games feels like a great idea put to life. The 
 only things holding this game back from true glory are the repetitive missions and the not so total 
 control over your assassinations. With the way the story has ended, you can probably look forward 
 to the next installment in the series, which hopefully fixes the minor problems and allows this 
 game to truly be great. Assassin's Creed is a great game for any gamer to have in his or her collection.
 
  
  OVERALL: 8.7
  
  Game Play: 8.5/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.0/10
  Presentation: 9.0/10
  Value: 8.2/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: epcotte
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  A few different cities, but the same actions to perform. A few different weapons and / or manoeuvers, 
 but not much change in the fights, their outcomes, or how fun much you how while fighting (which 
 turned out to be close to none after a while) . Nice graphics, though, which is the feature that 
 kept me going, especially when climbing up and looking out from view points. Shows what the game 
 "Gun" could have been like. Might be a better version of "Prince of PErsia", though I couldn't 
 say for sure because I didn't play it much. The storyline is pretty cool, too. But way too repetitive 
 for the scores it got in the press. I forced myself to finish it, then sold it without thinking 
 twice. I didn't regret selling it, either, as I could not picture myself ever playing it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceking003
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a complicated game. You may not pick it up in 10 minutes, but you will enjoy 
 it when you master the controls. The fights are relativly easy, but what do you expect? I love 
 the hidden blade more than life itself for Altair. The time in the lab is a cool little break from 
 the action. The only really bad part is the assassinations themselves. The investagations are mostly 
 long and boring, and the informer missions make you feel like a dog on a leash. Still, it is funn 
 to take some time off and go on a massive guard killing spree with your hidden blade. All in all, 
 great game, fun to take the little sword and slice up guards ninja-style. Throwing knifes are a 
 nice touch, fun to snipe guard from the rooftops, and the leaps of faith look cool. The cutscenes 
 get a little boring, because most people want to go out and kill, not listen to a dead guy, but 
 overalll, definalty 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahmean187
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  its got the graphics. its got the gameplay. its got the sound. its got the story... kindddaaa. 
 besides the story the game is overall pretty solid. if you noticed though i gave this game a 7.5. 
 y? bc it just gets so old after about 5 hours. 
  
  some games get repititive, some get old
  gta4 is repitive but the missions dont get old. running 
 around blasting ppl for no reason never gets old. assassins though does. while the fighting is 
 sweet at first, it gets old, mainly bc it doesnt take much skill. assassins creed is actually one 
 of those games that just looks sweet when ur playing, but it doesnt feel sweet. you dont get the 
 satisfaction of killing ppl when its so easy. the game could have used more work. the fighting 
 could have been more polished and the ridiculous story could have been presented better. o yea, 
 and plus altair, the middle eastern dude should at least have a middle eastern accent, NOT an american 
 one.
  
  some ppl really really enjoy this game, some hate it. my advice is rent it first, see if u like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiper990099
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Amazing overall game, excellent game preformance and unbelieveably indepth stories. Along with 
 mystery thrown into the mix of the overall story. It really gives the player the idea of being 
 in the game. Something occurs, you have to quickly move or the moment will be lost. Having to plan 
 and think things threw instead of running in like a maniac. 
  
  The graphics of the game were excellent, along with how it was handled with the combat system. 
 Not being able to sustain lots of hits but having a "enhanced" blocking system was an innovative 
 system to be introduced into the gaming world.
  
  The fact that you had to discover things for yourself, listen to information and use it to your 
 advantage. Along with using the information to benefit your assassination. Such as giving you an 
 available escape route, or an entrance point. 
  
  Overall this game had little to no flaws and would make an amazing series. Should it be continued 
 of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sierra_118
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  The first thing the player notices about Assassin'c creed is the environment. Not just pretty, 
 although pretty it undoubtedly is, the entire feel of the game, the ability to climb on structures 
 that do look as if they were built for something other than being clambered on, the movement of 
 the people around the streets, and the combat system that i don't really think could be improved 
 (except by the addition of more combat styles) . You can really feel like an Hashshashin, from the 
 holy land, stalking the streets af a medieval metropolis, Ubisoft have lavished so much on the 
 city design that this game truly feels like something epic. Unfortunatley in practice the game 
 is not exactly perfect, glitches plague movement around the city, freerunning being a prime example, 
 when it is right it feels SO good, but there are not enough places where it is actually possible, 
 that is not my major gripe, the voice acting is quite frankly crap, and the fact that all the save 
 citizens quests are exactly the same doesn't help "Filth! you are Filth!" followed by the inevitable 
 "another minute and they would have made off with me" or the Christian old woman "Don't think i 
 could have handled them myself". Ubisoft have spent so much time making a brilliant overarching 
 world that the details are a bit off, plus sitting down on a bench dressed fully in assassin garb 
 really shouldn't count as invisible The Assassinations themselves are pretty good, plenty of variation, 
 Guards could be more realistic, but again that is mainly a voice acting issue, the real problem 
 is that in some the system doesn't really allow you to make the perfect kill, and you are often 
 drawn in to an endless fight with bodyguards: various. The thing about Assassin's creed is that 
 when it is good it is amazing, just fantastic, jumping of a box onto a beam, swinging onto a roof, 
 before eagle jumping into a hay bale gives you such a great feeling, and just so cool, but glitches 
 and a lack of modes of play mean that with time this game is a bit of a let down, not because it 
 is bad, but because it could so easily be so much better. Assassin's creed is a prime example of 
 the start of something huge. If Ubisoft are as they are hinting they are planning, and a few issues 
 are taken care of, I have no doubt we would have a future hit lined up (Feudal japan? ninjas versus 
 Samurai? PLEASE GOD BE TRUE) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hk47ownz
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I haven't finished the game yet, but I have enjoyed every bit of it so far. First off, the graphics 
 are great. Second, I'm quite the sucker for an intriguing story line, and so far, this game has 
 presented an interesting cross between sci-fi and medieval stories, also being set in a time period 
 and area that few games (Yes, some, but few) have touched on.
  Unlike some people, i enjoyed the combat system, partially cuz it let me kick some without mashing 
 every button at once. But if you get bored of repetitive fighting techniques, this game probably 
 isn't for you.
  Another shortcoming in my opinion, is the AI. It could be a little more consistent (if you were 
 a guard, and you saw a guy climbing a building, would you just sit there?) . I would find the game 
 much more fun if it had just a little more challenge to it.
  I've also noticed that some of the civilian's voices aren't 100% clear, but that could also just 
 be my speakers.
  I'd also like to point out that if you aren't like me, and don't particularly enjoy cutscenes, 
 you might have some trouble with this game, since you are forced to watch cutscenes to find "memory 
 glitches."
  As a final statement, some people, like me, will find Assassin's Creed a great game, and others, 
 who don't enjoy cutscenes and semi-repetitive gameplay, should probably find something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colorado-Avs
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Since the arrival of Bioshock, there has been somewhat of a re-emergence in the production of videogames 
 that go deeper than a rock solid fighting system or insanely beautiful graphics. Perhaps, we are 
 witnessing the beginning of an era suited for the intelligent gamer. Assassin's Creed may be one 
 of the first of many games in this genre. Despite what other gamers may say, Assassin's Creed is 
 certainly not a boring game. Afterall, a game can only be as enjoyable as the manner in which the 
 user plays through it. Despite this, Assassin's Creed is far from perfect and the true complexity 
 of the game isn't for everyone. After finishing the game, the most truthful answer that I can give 
 is that I had mixed reactions.
  
  Just to start things off, Assassin's Creed is a game that takes place in the near future. A major 
 corporation called Abstergo has taken hostage of a man named Desmond Miles, because he holds something 
 that is extremely important to them. Nothing physical, but the key actually lies in his DNA. Abstergo 
 has created a machine called the Animus. It has the ability of analyzing the host's DNA and using 
 it to display the memories of ancestor's. Desmond ancestor is a man called Altair, an assassin 
 during the Crusade. Apparently, somewhere within Desmond's DNA lies the whereabouts of an object 
 that Abstergo can use to "change the world". You play the role of Altair, as he trys to elminate 
 9 targets that threaten the safety of the holy land. 
  
  Let's start with the bad. Repetitive gameplay! You may think I'm contradicting myself, as I previously 
 stated that this game is far from boring. Here's the thing. Throughout most of the game, you work 
 on assassinating 9 enemies. In order to actually begin an assassination mission though, you are 
 required to complete a certain number of sub-quests in order to gather information about your target's 
 whereabouts, plans and goals. The problem is, the type of missions you can take is very limited. 
 You have pickpocket, interrogation, eavesdropping, and informer missions. And that's it. The fact 
 that you'll be undergoing these missions over and over again throughout the course of the game 
 makes a quite boring often times. Luckily though, this is pretty much the only part of the game 
 that will bother users. Most of the criticism that goes around simply isn't true, and I'll tell 
 you why.
  
  The battle system is one part that has taken quite a few shots. Gamers state that there's only 
 a limited number of moves that you can perform and over the course of the game, using them over 
 and over again becomes boring. This is untrue. It all depends on how you play the game. I won't 
 lie though. The most effective way to fight is to use the counter system. Basically, you hold on 
 to the block button and just before an enemy hits you, you tap the counter button to perform an 
 instant kill. While it's true that you're limited to 4 or 5 counter animations, this hardly makes 
 the battle system boring. Sure, if you counter over and over again, it does seem boring, but in 
 reality, there are so many different ways in which you can fight. How about dodging you enemy's 
 attack and following it up with a power attack of your own? Or maybe shoving your enemy against 
 the wall and then peforming an instant kill with your hidden blade? Want more options? What about 
 performing a guard break followed by a quick strike? What about throwing your enemies into local 
 stands, crushing them in the process? Or how about jumping off a roof and knifing your enemy in 
 the neck? Heck if your up to it, throw them off a roof for all I care. If you really want to maintain 
 the assassin feel though, you have the option of using throwing knives for long range kills, or 
 simply using your hidden blade on unexpecting enemies. Assassin's Creed has a very versatile and 
 exciting battle system that makes for very memorable moments. It all depends on how you use it 
 though. 
  
  Graphics wise, there's no complaints anywhere. The game is absolutely gorgeous. The amount of detail 
 is simply amazing. Towns appear to be truly alive. The marketplace is bustling with shoppers and 
 merchants advertising their products. There are peasents wandering the streets, begging for money. 
 Near the churches and hospitals, there are local men preaching their message towards the war. The 
 gamer truly gets a feel of what it may have been like during the time of the Crusade. 
  
  There have also been complaints about the game's main missions. Generally, your simply trying to 
 assassinate a major target, a "boss" if you want to call it that. Again, some gamers claim that 
 these missions become repetitive as well. Like I've said before, it all depends on how you plain 
 the game. If your strategy is to simply rush towards your target and assume that they'll simply 
 wait for you, then you've got another thing coming. Often times, gamers who rush head-in to the 
 situation will find themselves cornered by guards while the target attempts to flee. Often times, 
 the gamer will end up chasing the target down before killing him, which isn't all that fun. To 
 get the most out of these missions, try actually planning something out beforehand. Based on the 
 research you do before the mission, you're provided with hints and speical maps marking important 
 places or people. Use these to your advantage! The most satisfying mission is one where you maintain 
 low profile. If you're able to reach your target without alerting guards, then you may find yourself 
 in a situation where your target isn't aware of your presence until it's too late. This truly makes 
 for some very memorable moments that will make you want more.
  
  Finally, we come to the storyline. There's very little revealed throughout the course of the game, 
 and even at the end, you'll probably be more confused than you when you started the game. I don't 
 want to reveal much, but in order to fully understand the ending, you may have to do some further 
 research in fields other than gaming. Let's just say there's a lot of historical context to what 
 happens in Assassin's Creed. Still, what is revealed by the end of the game should leave gamers 
 wanting more, as this is definetly only the beginning of what may be quite an epic story. There's 
 still enough apparent twists and turns to make the game enjoyable though. All in all, the story 
 does what it's supposed to do. It reveals a little bit about a story that will possibly span throughout 
 six different games. It's important to grasp everything you can about Assassin's Creed though, 
 as this knowledge will most certainly aid in the understanding of further games down the road. 
 Gamer's may eventually be able to travel to feudal Japan, China, Egypt, Ancient Rome and even the 
 Mayan/ Aztec empire in order to solve Abstergo's mystery. There's no doubt that Altair's adventure 
 will be over by the end of Assassin's Creed, but as gamers will soon discover, this is only the 
 beginning for Desmond Miles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lem0nhead
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Breathtaking scenery environment and freedom. Roam where you like and do what you like. There are 
 no limits to your movement. Everything is climable and all the people are interactive in some way. 
 It truly is astounding. Why the hell they ruined this with the story that has you leaping back 
 and forth in time to discover memories from 1100's ill never know. They could have just left the 
 storyline based on Altairs time and it would have been perfect.
  
  Combat is fun once you get counter attack and it becomes easier and youre rewarded with many gruesome 
 little cutscenes of miscellaneous guards being slain. Though using your hidden blade for assassinations 
 never gets old.
  
  Totally worth buying, and if you immerse yourself in it and attempt all the side missions will 
 take you a good while and effort to complete 100% of it, though whatever level of activity you 
 take in it you will be deeply rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  OK, right now you're probably thinking, "well isn't that enough for you?" and the answer to that 
 would be,"no". although the game looks great it has a couple killer flaws. A-- the combat's way 
 to easy. unless you're in a boss fight, you can kill scores of guards in minutes by just waiting 
 for one to try to attack you, hitting the finishing move button and watching as your character 
 kills him in one swipe. B-- you really don't need to use stealth. although you can try to hide from 
 guards it's just as easy to kill them and be done with it. Another thing in this category that 
 I hate is the "blend" button. the fact that all you have to do to sneak up on a guard is hit a 
 button seems like a lazy guys way of assassinating a guard to me. C-- there is no money in the game, 
 you can't buy/choose weapons weapons using money that I wish you could steal but does'nt exist 
 in the first place. the fact that you can't pickpocket people, steal from the many stalls in the 
 game or choose to buy new weapons seems like something that would have been in the game if tis 
 creators had just kept it in the works long enough to think of it. in all the lack of realism and 
 weapons is what keeps assassins creed from being a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memtee
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Utterly Amazing, Breathtaking! These were the first words that entered my head as i entered the 
 world of the assasin. The game has many greats, firstly the graphics. They were absoloutely amazing 
 i was truely amazed as i roamed through the free world. The ability to use your climbing skills 
 anywhere was awesome! The detail that was put into this game must of taking months maybe years? 
 The storyline i thought could have more juice in it! It was good but maybe a little off in a way. 
 It was really tough i thought but maybe if your a keen gamer you will get the hang of it and do 
 great in it! Although i am a keen gamer but i failed to grasp the controls greatly although i still 
 completed the game with the aid of a walkthrough *evil laugh*. The game went on a little long and 
 it took me roughly about 50-65 hours of gameplay to complete it. My overall rating i would say 
 is a solind 9.5 it is a great game withe phenominal graphics! Another congradulations to the developers 
 and publishers, you were spot on with this game!
  
  My ratings:
  
  Graphics: solid 9.5
  Character graphics: 8.0
  Weapon and Clothing Detail: solid 10
  Storyline: 
 7.5
  Game depth: 9
  
  Overall Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an exceptional game for two reasons: 
  
  First, it's technically a "sandbox" game which wanders far from the likes of GTA, Saints Row or 
 True Crime.
  
  Second, it presents a very original and intriguing story executed through exceptional gameplay.
 
  
  AC is the story of an ordinary man held captive in a secret high-tech lab where his DNA and his 
 mind are used to track the activities of his ancestor, a ruthless and deadly assassin who was involved 
 in the crusades. As it turns out, your character is charged with the task of hunting down and killing 
 the Knights Templar before they can carry out their conspiracy of world domination through intrigue 
 and political corruption.
  
  The story is brought to life through beautiful and highly-detailed aesthetics, realistic sounds 
 and fair AI. The NPC's react to your movements and actions and the controls and gameplay are outstanding. 
 Passing camera controls and a plentiful list of combat moves and techniques provide loads of intense 
 action. In addition, the side-activities are limited, but are challenging and fun.
  
  Perhaps the main drawback in the game is the lunacy of the enemy spawn rate. Enemies regenerate 
 far too fast and too often. You can slaughter every soldier in the area, walk twenty feet away 
 then return, they're all back again. And by halfway through the game, you'll often find yourself 
 fending off a dozen or so enemies at a time. The game also ends rather abruptly, but a sequel is 
 rumored to be in the works.
  
  As a matter of personal opinion, if there were just a few extra side-activities and if the enemies 
 didn't regenerate at such a high rate, I would give AC a perfect score. The graphics, sound and 
 gameplay are excellent, so if you like a game with good replay value and can take hours of brutal 
 combat, this is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenghisKahn26
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  A great game. Hitman has nothing on this. The kills are amazing in graphics and method, and the 
 scenery and cities are incredible. I would give it a 10 but I gave it a 9.5 for two reasons. 
 
  1. Really weird ending. Really, really, weird trip of an ending. But I won't spoil it.
  2. Not actually important, but I was slightly annoyed with the throwing knives. You can only throw 
 them on a 2D plane. Large hills and buildings or any type of major elevation will prevent a hit. 
 But I used the knives a total of maybe fifty times so it was no problem. 
  Amazing fighting system too. nothing like say, kingdom hearts. have nothing against it, but to 
 much X button mashing. With AC you can perform 4 different types of attacks, (not to mention combos) 
 with your primary sword. But nothing compares to the short blade.
  Anyway, a must have for 360 owners. and you PS3 losers too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twobyfour2
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. It took me some time to figure out how to climb and jump etc. I believe the 
 worst part is the flag hunting. I got to the point of frustration that I finally gave up after 
 countless hours to find them, I got on the net and got maps. The story line is impressive, with 
 the nine dudes you have to kill. Then it gets confusing at the end. I kind of got lost in the last 
 bit of the story line after that intense battle with a bunch of dudes. I also think it would have 
 gotten a higher rating if it had online play. Why would a game but launched without some sort of 
 online multiplayer, especially now. I would recommend you rent it if you play a lot of online multiplayer. 
 
  
  The stunning detail of the towns and the country side are breath-taking. I like the fact you can 
 ride a horse to each town or just skip directly to it. It really looks good on 1080p. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that initially I was only mildly interested in AC. I thought the game looked great 
 and had an interesting setting but I've never been a fan of games that involved too much platforming 
 as they were usually a source of frustration. As much as I've enjoyed the God of War games it was 
 the areas that involved climbing and tricky jumps that tended to be the parts that I enjoyed the 
 least. So last Fall I pretty much ignored the attention this game received, though I did see that 
 it had received very good reviews. Finally about a month ago I decided to give this game a shot 
 when the price came down, figuring I didn't have too much to lose if it turned out that I didn't 
 like it.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - It turns out the gameplay was far better than I anticipated. The controls for climbing 
 or leaping from one point to another are perfectly laid out and responsive. It didn't take long 
 at all before I was performing incredible feats w/o breaking a sweat. The combat, while taking 
 a little getting used to, also becomes second nature and is very enjoyable. As you might expect 
 your character is not someone that is going to plow into enemies while wildly swinging his weapons 
 such as Kratos might do, nevertheless he can take on multiple attackers by taking a calm defensive 
 stance, which is a great help during those times that things go wrong and you find yourself in 
 a fight you were trying to avoid. Naturally as an assassin the most satisfying moments is when 
 you can pull off an assassination quickly and quietly, but when you don't it's not a game-ending 
 moment. Some people have complained about the fact that as the game goes on you end up following 
 the same routine for each assassination (pickpocketing, interrogations, informers, eavesdropping) , 
 and while this is true to a certain extent each situation is unique as it relates to the story, 
 and since it plays so well I never thought of the game becoming repetitive.
  
  GRAPHICS (9.5) - Overall I have to say this is the most impressive looking game I've played. Not 
 just in terms of the characters and environments, which are fantastic and highly detailed, but 
 also in the animations of your protagonist as he leaps to rooftops, climbs walls or is in combat. 
 It all looks so realistic that it makes these actions a joy to watch even if it is done multiple 
 times. You'll be scaling extremely high buildings and towers to get a lay of the land, and the 
 view of the cities and countryside from these perspectives is incredible, and have to be seen in 
 action to truly appreciate.
  
  SOUND (8.5) - The voice acting is very good for the most part, save for that of the main character, 
 which doesn't really blend in with the other 12th century characters. However, there may be a reason 
 for this, which I won't go into to prevent any spoilers. The music is not very noticeable when 
 you're submerged in the gameplay, but it's very appropriate and has an Arabic feel to it that gives 
 the game authenticity. The sound effects closely mimic the clang of swords in battle and the noise 
 of the city streets. 
  
  Value (8.5) - I can only estimate how long it took me to finish the game, and I would say it took 
 close to 20 hours, not bad for an action-oriented title. The game does not offer any multiplayer 
 modes. It does have numerous side missions, such as finding hidden flags and saving helpless citizens 
 which will earn achievement points. While this type of game may have limited replayability due 
 to the nature of the story, I found it enjoyable enough that I'll certainly play this game again 
 and try to accomplish some of my goals in different fashions. This brings up another favorable 
 gameplay point in that many times you do have different options available as to how you'll accomplish 
 your missions.
  
  Overall (9) - With all of the great components of this game, I'd say the main thing gamers need 
 to keep in mind that yes, there will be certain tasks that you will do numerous times and no, this 
 is not meant to be an non-stop combat oriented game. If you have the patience to enjoy the story 
 and the beautiful settings and play this game in the stealthy style that it was meant to be played 
 as I think you'll find this to be a lot of fun and to be one of the top games of the current generation.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tba405
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  I know its a bit late to be getting a 360 but guess what ? . . . I just got it. . . 
  
  Anyhoo . . . My first games was GTA4 and This game . . . . 
  
  GTA4 ?? weeeell . . thats another 
 story . . . this ?? when i saw the ads and graphics a while back . . i was stunned! . . . . 
  
  when i played this game . . . i was stunned! . . . . but yet when i was in the beggining of 
 this game i was stunned! . . . . then i was in the middle of this game . . . i was FRUSTRATED!!!! 
 i swear i dont ever think i have ever felt this way toward a game ???? its the SAAAAAME!!! thing 
 OVER an over! ??
  
  Then i went an played GTA4 . . then i realised something . . . . it trully does! show that why 
 GTA is always a winner . . . . story line . . 
  
  This game has an amazing story . . . . BUT TOO MUCH TALKING! waaaaaaaaaaaay too much . . . and 
 no 'cool' movies when you accomplish a level . . . nothing . . your just awarded by more! talking 
 . . . then when you start the level . . . its like you JUST want to finish it just so you can see 
 how this dam game ends 
  
  Unlike GTA . . you take your time cause you dont want it to end . . . . 
  
  This game took 
 2 days to finish apprx. 7-10 hrs an i must admit . . . i trully do wish for them to come out with 
 a part 2 . . . 
  
  I trully do think they were limited on what they could work with . . . simply put . . they put 
 all their budget into making the game look good . . . . rather than the gameplay . . . 
  
  What can you expect though ? They deffinatly stood out from the competition . . . . (Ubisoft is 
 always doing that exact thing)
  
  Im almost sure that part 2 will be a HUGE hit . . . 
  
  Cant wait . . . . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is really different to alot of other games these days.
  The majority of games that are being made are shooters but this is an adventure game. You play 
 an assassin trying to kill his marks to change the future. The things you can do in the game is 
 so amazing, you can climb up the highest bulidings to get a better view of eveeything, you can 
 be stealthy and sneak up on enemies to exicute them. You travel on horse back from city to city 
 killing enemies. You have three weapons, a sword and small dagger and a hidden knife that goes 
 where one of his fingers should be.
  
  The combat system works well but it is pretty easy to get out of battles making it almost impossible 
 to die. If you attack someone and he calls the gaurds its as easy as sitting on a bench too get 
 away. Although it is alot funner running from the enemy jumping from rooftop to rooftop.
  
  You can take out your mark in two different ways, the steath way which includes jumping from different 
 buildings and sneaking up on them or just killing them and everyone in their way. Not very stealthy 
 but is effective. The game can get a bit repedative at times but then again what game doesnt do 
 that a bit. 
  
  In all Assassins Creed is a great game that is very unique and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eunao2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a beautiful game full of killing and blood.
  
  You start Assassins Creed in cave with your fellow assassins ready to kill your target. You play 
 a man named Altair in a virtual machine that let's you go back in time and live yours ancestors 
 life, apparently he was an assassin during the third crusade. During the game you will kill many 
 people ordered by your master but as you progress trough the game you will find yourself in a conspiracy 
 and you have to get out of it real fast before is kills you.
  
  The good aspects of Assassins Creed are climbing buildings, stealth kill anybody or have some attention, 
 flee as fast as you can after you kill a target and the hiding system.
  
  In Assassins Creed you can climb pretty much everything which is a good way to get to a place real 
 fast. The AI is great it can climb walls, make big jumps, basically it can do pretty much what 
 you can. But the coolest thing about Assassins Creed isn't the getaway, it's the killing and how 
 you plan it and it's just fantastic to stab a knife in his back or even stab a sword from his stomach 
 to his back. The hiding system is really good you can hide in benches, hay stacks or some weird 
 barracks.
  
  The graphics look stunning the cities and people just look like a real and it's definitely hard 
 to see the same person twice in the same space.
  The only downside of Assassins Creed is the online play because there isn't.
  
  If you like 
 to kill a guy and run away as a coward this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  They wanted to do everything right. The concept was to create a 3rd person stealth action game 
 in a cohesive believable world and weave this package into believable story. 
  
  You've probably already read about the repetitious tasks Altair would perform during the course 
 of the game but let me offer a fresh perspective of what bothered me. As you begin, you play Desmond 
 Miles, a random bartender being forced to interact with the 'Animus,' an experimental virtual reality 
 simulator that taps into the genetic memories of its host. AC begins by introducing the theory 
 that you can retrieve and record the memories of your past ancestors through your own DNA. But 
 why Desmond? Because his ancestor was an Assassin during the glory years of the Third Crusade and 
 may carry some secrets that may affect the course of mankind as we know it.
  
  The game world in Assassin's Creed is set out across the Assassin stronghold of Masyaf, three core 
 cities, and a sprawling Kingdom that exists as a vast segueing environment. The inhabitants of 
 these cities interact with each subtle move you perform in the city. On the upside, the graphics 
 and animation are impressive to say the least. Altair can seemlessly move through the environment 
 with so many various animations that it can boggle the mind. Altair's movements and his uncanny 
 ability to navigate through the environment is a technical achievement. In addition, the story, 
 leaps-of-faith, impressive draw distance and crowd interaction kept me coming back... at least initially.
 
  
  I will not go too deep into the positives of this game. Many positive points were stated in other 
 user reviews including gamespot's official review so I will not delve too far from the reason I 
 gave this game a 7.5 (which is still good, just not great) . 
  One of my main gripes of the game was the stealth and hiding mechanics. When you're discovered 
 after assassinating a leader, trying to break the enemy's line of site became a very tedious chore. 
 This was especially more frustrating when the home base locks up the moment a distant enemy sees 
 your shoelace from the corner of their eye while you're busy hiding behind a brick wall. Of course, 
 this happens 10 feet away from dropping in. What also deters me are the very limited ways of hiding: 
 a bench with two bored citizens, a square hut, a pile of hay, etc. These 4-5 hiding places are 
 the only places where you can hide. The same places where the enemies never bother to check once 
 their line of site is broken. Apparently, enemies can't also tell you apart from monks or scholars 
 either. Simply hold the Pray button and walk. 
  
  The other gameplay mechanic that had serious issues is the combat system. During the earlier phases 
 of the game, getting into combat with any enemy was very difficult... that is... until you gain the 
 ability to counterattack. Once you have this ability, there is almost no reason to hide especially 
 since the enemy will attack you one swipe at a time. I remember an experience where I tried to 
 jump on top of my next target and make a quick assassination with my short blade to setup a nice 
 in-game cinematic of the kill. Instead, I would fall right in front of my target and he would send 
 his whole city to kill me. In 10-15 minutes, I slaughtered a whole army within a 20 foot radius. 
 In one experience, I remember blocking the target's escape route with piles of his own dead soldiers. 
 When I gained the ability to grab enemies, it was icing on the cake. I would then take my battles 
 to the roofs tossing each enemy over the edge to their deaths. Interrogation missions were also 
 a single grab-and-shove away from completing it. The game's level of difficulty changes drastically 
 from hard to very easy. 
  
  It's too bad that AC was hampered down by the obvious exploits in the game. In my honest opinion, 
 Assassin's Creed (AC) is promising property that has plenty of room for improvement. I just hope 
 they will address these things in the next iteration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCE_KING_OF_360
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  ASSASSINS CREED is a historical action packed free run stelth game this game is one of my best 
 games ive ever played you can do watever you want in the historic time you ride horses you sword 
 fight etc there nothing else to say but this game is breathtaking and sends a shiver up your spin 
 when you just bought it.
  
  but there is one disvantage in it the start is crap and the storyline is confusing but the rest 
 is just beutiful
  
  its just a great game it is worth buying just to tell you all that the free run the pushing people 
 the fighting the riding.
  
  its high flying its adernaline action
  
  its every other game compared
  thrilled
  action
  bloody awsome
  cool
  omfg
  the best 
 of the best
  i love it
  u love it
  buy it
  the review
  is the review
  so buy it lol
  lmao
  rofl
  omg
  this stupid thing is not submiting
  come on
  ....
 
  .....
  hihji
  woot
  woot
  lala
  loop [ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed. Many people don't care for it, many people absolutely love it, many people don't 
 even care. I am one of the people who loved this game. It was an excellent gaming experience which 
 I will likely never forget. The extremely interesting, albeit sometimes confusing, story was a 
 major element in making the game great. The visuals are absolutely stunning, the sound effects 
 are great, the voice acting is good but could use a little work, and the gameplay/controls are 
 robust, although slightly flawed.
  
  I'll go through the flaws first of all.
  
  Well, first off, Altair is a highly-trained and agile assassin. He can leap to rooftop from rooftop 
 without breaking a sweat, quickly climb the highest towers in the game with ease, and sprint halfway 
 across the city to escape from guards without any problem... but wait... whats this? The guards travel 
 at NEARLY the same speed that Altair does, and can navigate tricky jumps with just as much ease? 
 Now, this honestly takes away from the game. Throughout the opening cinematic, we are shown that 
 Altair is incredibly agile, and a guy you don't want to make angry. But then, after the cinematic 
 ends... you start to play and quickly discover, the guards can do almost everything that Altair 
 can do, only with pinpoint accuracy because they aren't controlled by a person. This, honestly, 
 should simply not be.
  
  The stealth system is a little FUBAR aswell. So, envision this... you've just assassinated a knight 
 infront of a ton of people. You're escaping, with around twenty guards chasing you. You finally 
 break the line of sight by climbing onto a roof, and dive into a rooftop garden. The guards climb 
 up, and can't find you. They NEVER think to even glance at the rooftop garden. There are a total 
 of four hiding spots. Benches, scholars, haystacks, and rooftop gardens. You think the guards wouldn't 
 notice a hooded man with all kinds of weapons strapped to him sitting on a bench amongst two regular 
 citizens? Same with scholars. Anyone who is smarter then the common house plant would check the 
 rooftop garden. And the only logical hiding spot in the game is the haystack. So, my question is, 
 why couldn't the developers implemented more logical hiding spots? The stealth mechanic in the 
 game is also rather broken. You can kill a man, and then use your 'blend' action to do a sort of 
 'praying' thing... right beside the man's dead body. The guards will USUALLY check the body, and 
 walk right past you. This is ridiculous.
  
  And speaking of guards... well, you'll get in trouble for alot of things while exploring the expansive 
 and beautifully visualized Holy Land. Such things as riding your horse too fast, climbing buildings, 
 accidentally bumping into a guard, or any number of other things... are not tolerated. Guards, even 
 for the most minor infraction, will fiercely surround you and barrage you with swords and arrows... for 
 nearly no reason. This is incredibly annoying, especially when trying to do something such as an 
 informer mission, or climb a view point. I have encountered many a time when I was riding a horse 
 at a slightly fast rate of speed. A guard spotted me doing this, and before I knew it, I was knee-deep 
 in guards. So I get away from them, and try and climb a viewpoint. I am spotted again, and I get 
 nailed in the head by a stone, and fall from the viewpoint and get in another fight with guards. 
 Myself and all my friends who have played the game with me have agreed that you can barely go anywhere 
 without leaving a large pile of dead guards behind.
  
  Also, have I mentioned that this game suffers from Early GTA Complex? Meaning if you so much as 
 touch water, you are dead. Seriously, a highly trained and skilled assassin... falls in water, and 
 he drops dead? Unbelievable.
  
  The ending is one of the endings which will indefinitely have you scratching your head, and exclaiming 
 "WTF???" in confusion. It did the same to me. However, after reading an article on the internet, 
 the ending was pretty easy to comprehend. Just be prepared.
  
  Well, I know that's a pretty hefty list of flaws I've written above. Yes, there are many flaws 
 in Assassin's Creed. But it only takes a small amount away from the amazing gaming experience you'd 
 be missing out on if you don't play this great game. And aside from those flaws, the only remaining 
 problem is that the voice acting could use a little work at some points. Either way, I definitely 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VisigothSaxon
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  It is an all around fun assassin game in a extremely popular time. With the magnificent city of 
 Jerusalem. The only thing I did not like, is that they made Templar Order evil. I also did not 
 like being forced to kill Christian Crusaders. The ending was a cliff-hanger, but still good. I 
 can't wait for the second one and hopefully it will be just as good as the first.
  
  The fighting in Assassin's Creed is gruesome and fun. Countering with the curved blade is a joy, 
 along with stealthily throwing knives into enemies from a roof top. A good amount of achievements 
 to grab in this game. I think I got around 600-700 points. The most so far from a game, it is also 
 fun trying to achieve them. Such as killing 25 enemies in a single fight. I also liked getting 
 the achievement "Defender Of Jerusalem." The ending of this game had some of the most difficult 
 fights I have ever faced. It really got me thinking and I survived barely. 
  
  To sum it up, the game is yours to command there are a lot of different ways you can play in this 
 game. Lots of areas to explore and sights to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kluc05
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a hybrid game. Now I don't mean this as in it is fuel-efficient, nor am I implying 
 it blends two game types. I say this because it is one part great game, one part bad game.
  
  As always I will at first go with the good.
  
  The environments are lush and beautiful, 
 quite possibly offering the best visuals in a game to date. Altair moves more realistically than 
 I would have thought possible, and you wouldn't believe how much this makes the game feel alive.
 
  
  Free-running: The best game concept ever. I would not have thought any game would be able to pull 
 this off well, but Assassin's Creed does just that. Nothing is quite as pleasing as making a grand 
 escape after an assassination, while your opponents fall short (well sometimes... but we'll touch 
 on that later) .
  
  Combat... just wow. This is how it should be done. No tricky combo memorizations, just push this, 
 then that and BAAM! The variety in attacks is fantastic, and always flashy yet somehow believable. 
 If you get good enough, you will literally be able to stand there and take down anyone that attacks 
 you. Very pleasing.
  
  Voice acting is pretty steady. Nothing too bad, but then again no gripping performances either. 
 
  
  The story line is.... interesting. It is reminiscent of Metal Gear Solid 2, in that at the end you'll 
 kind of scratch your head and go "... really? It went that direction, huh? Hmm..." At least that's 
 how I ended up.
  
  And now... the bad.
  
  Those amazing chase scenes I told you about? Well for some reason, ordinary guards can actually 
 at times keep up with you as you leap from rooftop to rooftop, and if you watch them from a hiding 
 space, you will see they run on the same character motions as Altair, jumping gracefully from place 
 to place without much issue. This seems kind of odd in that Altair is supposed to be a top notch 
 assassin, and yet your every day town guard can more or less follow you place to place. Bugged 
 me a little.
  
  The missions. Fun the first time... horrible after about 4 hours of doing them over and over and 
 over. You will never once see an original mission outside of the assassination. They are always 
 the same. The only reward is reading the backstory provided through these little jobs. Hopefully 
 this will be fixed in the sequel. Sometimes the missions seem to have no bearing at all, such as 
 meeting a fellow assassin who has "dropped flags all over" and now you have to get them in 2 minutes 
 so he will tell you things...... why!? Why would that be pertinent?
  
  The unbelievable stealth system. And I don't mean this as it's "unbelievably good"... it's just 
 more like "Yeah right!" For instance, in later missions merely bowing your head as if in prayer 
 would help you avoid suspicion... yet you have throwing daggers on your back, a large knife and 
 a sword, all in plain view... and no other townspeople have any of these. And yet, I'm expected 
 to believe that they can't recognize me as an assassin because 4 guys in white are standing around 
 me? 'Eh... I'm not buying it. 
  
  Along those lines are the hiding mechanics. You have a few options: hide in a roof garden (which 
 anyone with an IQ above 8 would check almost immediately) , sit on a bench next to some random people 
 (.. you're a guy with a sword sitting on a bench... c'mon) , hide among scholars (already talked about 
 that) , and then you can hide in hay stacks (only believable option) . If you want me to believe 
 he is some social stealth guy, he should be changing his outfit a whole lot.
  
  And then there are the assassinations. Fun and amazing... until you pull them off. First off, there 
 is usually a 3-5 minute dialogue with the guy you just killed. He explains his motives.. then dies. 
 Okay... so why is nobody stabbing you as you sit there talking to a guy you just stabbed in the 
 throat? 
  
  And then there is the fact that every assassination ends the same: run away! You'd think he'd find 
 a way to kill him and get away before anyone noticed... say by using his throwing daggers or a crossbow 
 or something. Sensible? Apparently not.
  
  And then there is the "open world" where you are between towns..... absolutely without reason. One 
 minute you're riding, the next minute someone is screaming at you and shooting arrows at you because 
 you were riding your horse too fast. I have played this game 3 times now and found no way to avoid 
 arousing suspicion. 
  
  Also, we find ourselves being nostalgic of sega-days when you try to escape by jumping in the water.... and 
 you die. Apparently, Assassin's don't swim.
  
  Overall this game is great. It does not have much replay value, but it is highly entertaining and 
 the story is actually quite good. The characters could really have used some fleshing out, but 
 we'll just have to see what happens next time around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyricistvipa
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  If there is any game that is more intuitive, innovative and unique let me know. From the beginning 
 to very end this game takes the player through a world and gameplay that has never been. Now I 
 know there's COD 4 and Mass Effect out and they're great. However, COD 4 is by definition a first 
 person shooter, and if some one who didn't know about the COD series saw it, it would be just another 
 first person shooter. How many games have there been where a character, or story, has been told 
 and played so beautifully. Now I know there's other assassin games like Tenchu, and Thief but anyone 
 who's played those games and then this knows they don't compare.
  
  The first thing that was amazing was the character himself. Altair (a real Arabic name) is part 
 of the Assassins ( an actual Arabic sect) that existed during the Crusades. Obviously this game 
 is based on real facts and locations which is even harder to work with when making a game. It's 
 a lot easier to make a fake city (Liberty City) and slap all kinds of content into it. What is second 
 on the "List of Cool S*%&" Is how the controls seem to flow so natural with the gameplay. It was 
 the first game where I could be doing something and wouldn't have a brain fart about what button 
 to push. The movements of Altair were just amazing and showed the skill that these"Assassins" had. 
 The third thing on the list is the story. This is a story that has honestly never been told in 
 the history of gaming. That's incredible to me.
  
  As you play through the game the mission structure begins to repetitive, but learning new skills 
 allow the player to approach the mission in different ways. This is an excellent game and i would 
 recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronhirschman
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Oh yeah.. Mid Evilish times... A hint of Grand Theft Auto, a hint of Godfather, and a couple other 
 hundred games.
  
  I didn't like it at first, kinda boring, kinda blah. Then I gave it a day, and without knowing 
 it, I did give it a day. Played it for hours. I barley put a dent in the whole game. Great graphics, 
 and game speed. Sweet game idea, k i dont care about the time machine crap, but yeah great game. 
 Dont ever play king aurther. That game licked taint. And licked it hard. My point is that there 
 hasn't been a game like this before,.. Its about time.
  
  BUY THIS GAME!! Or use a friends 
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhfpunisher
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought Assassin's Creed not knowing completely what the game was about. I read the GameSpot review 
 so I decided to check it out. Well even at $60 I consider it a great buy. The world itself is huge 
 so you can find yourself spending countless hours just messing around. This is one of those games 
 that you start playing and look up at the clock amazed at how much time has passed since you started 
 playing it. It really sucks you in and makes you feel like you are living in the times of the Third 
 Crusade. The graphics are excellent and the game play is fun. The only problem I have found with 
 the game is some minor "camera-sticking" issues that are few and far between. Did I mention throwing 
 somebody off of a building? Or sneaking up on a target to get that perfect kill? That stuff never 
 gets old. Basically the story is that you are an assassin who is given "jobs" throughout the various 
 cities (many locations require a horse to get to because the world is so big) . You also have various 
 side missions you can attempt. Each mission requires some investigation (interrogation, pickpocket, 
 etc.) and you are given the option to investigate more or less but there is a minimum that you 
 must do. There are viewpoints throughout the cities that are used to find these investigations, 
 save citizens, etc. Assassin's Creed allows you to climb, run, and maneuver like nobody's business. 
 This can be really fun! The guy is like a monkey he is so agile, and this agility comes into play 
 if you get the guards upset. You have 3 weapons to choose from to kill enemies: Your sword (melee) , 
 throwing knives, and a stealthy dagger kept in your sleeve for those silent close-up sneak attacks. 
 Fight scenes are really fun even when you lose. The way they have used a target lock is great because 
 it is in third person. All-in-all I think this is definitely one of my favorite games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: join993
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is actually one of the best games i have EVER played, I love it and it will always 
 be a part of my gaming heart, BUT! This game has the most glitches that I have EVER seen in a next-gen 
 game (The X360 and PS3) , But never mind that, Lets go forth to the review and go look more at this 
 later. 
  
  Assassins Creed plays in a close to now world, You play as an average joe bartender, with a past 
 as an "assassin-to-be". You literarilly jump into the world where you just got kidnapped by people 
 that wants you to enter a thing called The Animus that will allow you to "relive" memories from 
 ancestors through your DNA, And somehow these people will see it too... You enter the Animus and 
 you jump into a memory where your an assassin living around Jerusalem around the time of the Crusade 
 of the Christians to "retake the holy city", And ofcourse your the one thats gonna defend everyone. 
 But somewhere where you are gonna get a treasure called "the apple of eden" if i remember it right, 
 You dont only assassinate an innocent, you also attack a man named Robert De sabl, altrough you 
 fail to kill him and your two other assassins coops are killed. You come back to your master, where 
 one of your assassins coops are alive with an arm cut away. You dont have time for any more of 
 this for then the Templars attack with Robert as their commander, You fend them of but afterwards 
 you get "killed" and sleep the sleep of the dead or something like that. You get stripped of you 
 ranks and your weapons for disobeying the Creed, now you have to assassinate nine people to get 
 back you ranks, and thats more or less a sypnosis for the beginning. 
  
  For every assassination you do, you will get more weapons back and more ranks back, along with 
 many abilities. Before every assassination you get to do investigations that involves Eavesdropping, 
 pickpocketing, interrogating and all that stuff.. Thats one of the thing that drag down the replay 
 walue a BIG bit, along with that every town has three districts, every districts have a number 
 of viewpoints, that make you see the map, along with places to save citizens, wich you have to 
 do to get 100% completed. 
  
  Also another thing that is VERY EXTREMLY HARDISH! is that there is about... 300-400 flags in the 
 game, which is more or less like, flags xD that you collect and for the X360 you get a Achivement 
 for every town you collect all, And in the realistic environment that Assassins Creed have, its 
 not only hard, its impossible to do all alone, you need help to make it. And just so you know, 
 this is the reason its on hard difficulty, You simply cant complete the game without online help 
 on these flags.
  
  Its also no, and i mean NONE at all, that you can do online, which is pretty boring. I think that 
 when Ubisoft made this game, they got very stressed by the big delays so they just threw somethings 
 they had done to a game that was able to get full score but, yeah. Its to repetietive, Too many 
 glitches, and The ending was just too dissapointing, even for a trioligy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01chris02
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Assassins' Creed is by far one of the best storyline i have come across in many years. The gameplay 
 is fluent and flawless. As you walk around most people have different reactions to what you do 
 to them. (Note most people, occasionally you will find a beggar who wont shut up) . But this is 
 solved very easily, just stab them lol. The gamerscore is very easy to get if you buy this game 
 for Xbox360. The one problem with this game, and mainly the only one, is that they leave the game 
 on a cliffhanger and apparently they are not going to make a sequel as a various complaints ave 
 come in from people offended by the storyline's anti-religious appearance. I KNOW!! It's stupid!! 
 But there is really nothing we can do but apart from this if you want to be left in suspense and 
 wondering what will happen please be prepared. Bar all this this is a excellent game. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxSoCalxXx1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favs right now. I cant stop playing it. I love exploring the huge world of 
 assassins creed. the enviorments are very detailed and life like. the A. I. is kinda smart but not 
 totally. i like how they will corner you with about 10 guys. but i wish it was more difficult. i dont 
 like how only one enemy will attack you and not a few at a time. i wish that there were more assassination 
 moves. but i like the ones there are. i think that i was just to hyped for this game and it kinda 
 killed it for me. but dont get me wrong, its still a great game. i love the story. the way it kinda 
 jumps out at you in the beggining of the game is amazing. i did not expect the story to be the 
 way it was. i love when you have to assassinate a target and you can either do it steathy or just 
 go in and kill 30 guys before you kill him.... this is one of the best games out right now and i 
 would reccomend you pick it up....:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, the game isn't all that great like it was hyped up to be, the crowds don't really do 
 alot of different things and will get in your way alot. The most annoying ones are the crazy people 
 (dont know if thats what they are really called, but they look like crackheads or something) they 
 always push you and sometimes are hard to get away from. The game starts off great, but after a 
 couple of hours it does become a bit repetitive and the guards start to get annoying. The main 
 character dosnt really have to many different weapons to use and the graphics are pretty good. 
 I believe that they could have been better, but they werent bad. the gameplay i think could have 
 been better if they would have taken more time on the game, but overall if your a casual gamer 
 I think you'll have alot of fun with the game.
  
  This is a great game to casually play, but id say wait until the price drops before you buy it. 
 If you dont think that its a game you'd want to keep, then best thing to do is rent it first and 
 play it for a little bit and see if you think its something you'd enjoy playing alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffripper
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, when I heard about this game at E3 of 2005. I thought "oh wow, I guess it'll be like a third 
 crusade rip-off of the Hitman game". But, like I always am with most speculations in games. I was 
 wrong. 
  Because, I had actually missed out on E3 of 2006, I didn't keep up with game until E3 of 2007. 
 When I saw that trailer of how you could climb anything, and plan your assassinations, I went to 
 Gamestop the very next day for a pre-order. Anyway, to the review. So you start 
  as a man named Desmond. Who..... well I can't really tell how the story really goes, because then 
 I would have to tell you the whole thing. So I'll just get to the gameplay. Controlling in the 
 game feels so fresh, like a fresh cut into a new sheet of construction paper.
  Well not that fresh. some times you try to climb something, but Altiar 
  just keeps hugging up 
 to the wall. This is especially annoying when your trying to escape by a butt load of guards. That 
 graphics are phenomenal! Like game of the year good. Oh and when I said Altiar earlier, yeah well, 
 that's the character you play as. Yeah the storyline is confusing at first, but if you know your 
 history, then you can understand. You play as a guy named Altiar who is part of this clan of assassins. 
 Good thing, Altiar is the best. Bad thing, he knows he's the best. His over confidence eventually 
 leads you in having to fend off Templars from your village of Masayaf. Your master gives you a 
 chance to redeem yourself by killing these nine men. Apparently killing these nine men will end 
 the crusades. There is a nice twist to the storyline, and it's very original. But that's all I'm 
 telling you. One thing I saw is that, this game does not associate with anything online. Now I'm 
 okay with the fact that there is no online play. Not all games need online play, like Bioshock. 
 But there is absolutely no downloadable content. I mean they could of put like a new mission in 
 or something. But I guess that wouldn't have fit with the story either. Anyway, controls are good, 
 graphics are great, story is original, but there is absolutely no extra content game.
  with that, it's for to decide it you want it or not. But I would for the story. *spoiler* theres 
 gonna be a sequel. 
  Oh! And if you get it for the Xbox 360, it's good for getting some achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed really is all it's cracked up to be a great fun slash'em up set in the past with 
 a deep story and controversial ending.
  
  However this really is all it is, however for the components it does have it does them really well, 
 first of the combat is really basic, great fun and easy to get a hold of, the story is probably 
 one of the best you'll ever come across in a game, and the ending (I won't spoil it for those who 
 havn't got it yet but it is extremely controversial and VERY confusing, this is'nt a bad thing 
 however it's just going to make Assassins creed 2 even more anticipated!
  
  It does come with problems though, for instance there is no multiplayer what-so-ever, a capture 
 the flag or 2 player Assassination challenges would have worked really well here. Also the combat 
 is really fun and intuitive however it is also extremely repetitive, this is bad, but some people 
 may still like it because of the fact that the combats so fun and it just never stops. The final 
 bad point is the fact that although it does have replay value, it's guite boring as your just doing 
 the same things over and over again.
  
  Altogether Assassins creed is a fantastic game with plenty of charm, although it may not keep your 
 attention for months, it is a great single player experience that you will get a strange craving 
 to play every once in a while 8/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezing_Knight
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game, so i wanted to see if it was worth buying it or not.
  
  The story u play the role of some guy kidnapped by a strange medical (i think) research organization 
 (a la Umbrella style?? xDD) . What they do is to look for some uhmmm, "thing" (i didnt understand 
 that) in the genetic memory of this guy, this case, genetic memory means the memory of his ancestor, 
 Altair, an assassin in the middle age. 
  
  But it wasnt the story what dissapointed me, in fact, i liked it. What i really dont like about 
 the game is that it is too repetitive, i mean, u execute the same things over and over again in 
 every mission, u need to kill someone in certain zone of the city, Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre, 
 each one divided in poor, middle class and rich zones. first u need to gather information about 
 where this guy u want to kill is, this where the game becomes repetitive, u can gather information 
 by climbing some towers (not difficult) , pick pocket info from someone (not difficult) or hearing 
 it from someone (guess what, not difficult) , and u have to do this several times EACH MISSION, 
 not just once, to finally know where the target is.
  
  The controls are just ok, its a mix of Splinter Cell with GTA , there r two stands, depending of 
 if u press or not the L trigger. The combat is also ok, even though it is unrealistic, one on one 
 even if u r surrounded by 15 guards, but its fine because otherwise it would be extremely hard 
 to win or escape, combat depends essentially on timing.
  
  Overall i dont understand whats so wonderful about this game, i highly recommend to rent it first 
 before buying, dont believe the HYPE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wicked1cometh
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game prior to its release and it became one of the reasons why I ended 
 up picking another current-gen system to go alongside the Wii that I own. I'm glad that other reasons 
 (CoD 4, H3, GTA IV, etc.) have come around, cause this game was a major disappointment for me and 
 ended up being traded back in to gamestop.
  
  THE GOOD: 
  
  The graphics are probably the best I've ever seen in a video game. Character models and their animations 
 are very fluid and realistic. Considering the number of characters on screen at any given time, 
 I never noticed any significant slow downs. Some people have complained about how dull the different 
 cities get after a while, and while I agree that the overworld was not done very well, the primary 
 cities that Altair visits really represent the time frame that the assassinations take place in. 
 Same goes for the sounds and voice acting, it all comes together for a very realistic gaming experience.
 
  
  Though I never finished the game, I'd also say that the story was at least halfway decent if not 
 better. I'm not going to give much of a critique on the story since I never finished the game, 
 but I will say that it would have been interesting to have finished it even if the overall game 
 experience was a bust.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  This game is far too repetitive. Once you get through the first two assassinations, I couldn't 
 help but feel a bit let down by the lack of creativity in the tasks Altair does to acquire the 
 information on each of his targets. Once you've done one eaves drop, pickpocket, rescue citizen, 
 look-out point, assassin's flag run, assassination request, interrogation, etc. you've done em 
 all. Additionally, though the information that Altair acquires would suggest that the assassinations 
 would be pretty interesting to execute, only one or two of the assassinations I completed really 
 followed along with the plan that Altair creates through the information he acquires. Most of them 
 end up being random chase em down and kill em events. The only reasons the later tasks get more 
 difficult is that as you complete each assassination, the city security will start to keep a tighter 
 watch on your every move.
  
  The controls, while functional, tend to hinder the player's overall control of the situation. In 
 particular, combat using these controls becomes very dull, a very big let down considering that 
 Ubisoft has done a great job with combat schemes in the past with the Prince of Persia series. 
 Also, when the going gets tough (such as when you're running from the guards after a successful 
 assassination) you will find that Altair does not respond to your commands as quickly as you would 
 like.
  
  Finally, the game has zero replay value, and from what I can see, no reason to go on with a game 
 after completing the main story. Unless you're one that is big on Xbox achievements, there is no 
 reason to collect the different flag types or kill all the templars since all these secondary tasks 
 offer only achievement awards for completing them, not even some small reward that would enhance 
 the game itself exists.
  
  I wouldn't really recommend this game to any one since there are far better games out there, especially 
 now that GTA IV is out. I ended up trading mine in so that I could finally play Knights of the 
 Old Republic. I will say that if you have a Gamefly account and have some interest in the game, 
 give it a try since you can hold on to the game as long as short as you would like with no penalty 
 to your account.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mulder
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  The first time through this game I was impressed but there were some complaints. I felt it was 
 getting a bit redundant and some of the action was frustrating at times. All of these things were 
 erased the second time threw the game. I decided to get more involved in the story and try to play 
 it as though i was the character going though these memories. It made a world of difference. It 
 felt more realistic and more polished. Some of the chases and assassinations were so thrilling 
 that i was almost shaking. And if you do it right, the fighting can be so unbelievably sweet that 
 my jaw would be hanging open in disbelief of what i just unleashed on dozens of guards. 
  
  The way that they did the story with the memory access and the futuristic story was surprising 
 and satisfying. I really felt like they spent a fair amount of time on the story. What a surprise! 
 A video game spending time on the story! Its a miracle! I exaggerate, but I was very pleased with 
 the story. And along with the great stealth and escape game-play, this title is golden. 
  (when played correctly) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Graphics of AC are just something to behold. The engine easily renders an extremely immersive living 
 and breathing world populated with lots of NPC's that have great A. I. The lighting, shadows, poly 
 count, texturing, and draw distance are just something that every 360 owner needs to experience. 
 This game pushes the hardware and is completely capable of being a technical trophy for any 360 
 owner.
  
  Sound is important to the immersion factor in any game. AC dosen't dissappoint in this department 
 either. The use of surround and the ambient sound of the living enviroments in which the game world 
 takes place is great. You hear conversations, chatter, speeches, animals, and wait..... oh that 
 was an eagle screetching over head.
  
  Game play here is also great. You hero climbs, runs, jumps, crouches, walks, rides horses, interacts 
 with the people and environment, stealth, and combat. It's all done very well here. A pleasure. 
 Taking your first "Leap of Faith" is an unforgettable experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapetoucher
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Finally, something a little different. Graphics are insane, especially when you synchronise from 
 a view point. Really cool idea, like the way they recreated the cities. Plenty of side missions, 
 although a bit repetitive after a while. It's always fun to climb up the view points though. Saving 
 citizens gets to be a chore, you think you're done, walk up to talk, then get hammered by 20 more 
 guards. 
  
  The later memory blocks get to be frustrating, you can barely walk down the street without engaging 
 about 25 guards just for making someone drop a clay pot. Controls are very cool, but do make the 
 game too easy at times. The ramp up in difficulty is good as well as gaining new abilities. 
  
  Some of the achievements are dumb, like talking to the chick every single time and those stupid 
 memory glitches for cut-scenes. I guess that is their way of making you pay attention to the mostly 
 long winded people who made the game. I hope all that talk means something down the road in sequels. 
 
  
  I do like this game very much, it can be addictive and the achievements are all easily obtainable 
 just by playing through the game completely-important to some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfanshawn
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I was psyched for this game when I first saw footage of it over a year ago and when I got it for 
 Christmas I couldn't wait to play it. The beginning of the game is amazing. You run around assassinating 
 guards and climbing towers to find vantage points. You can also pick pocket and eavesdrop. All 
 of these things are fun until you realize, that is all there is to do. Most missions entail riding 
 your horse to a city, killing some guards, pick pocketing, and getting some information. You do 
 this over and over ad nauseum. After playing for about 5 hours, I was bored, after playing for 
 about 10, I decided to put the game on Ebay. The game could have been so much more, because the 
 mechanics and the graphics really are amazing. And when you are assassinating, it is very fun. 
 Hopefully if they make a sequel they will expand on the ideas that the first game has and really 
 develop a game around it. This is definitely a renter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihs21596
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed blew me away. The first time i played it, at my friends place, i couldn't get way 
 from it. 
  
  Altair the assassin is one of the best creations ever. The way he moves feels so natural, and the 
 history and indeed, the present day story tied to him fits in perfectly. 
  
  There are some big twists in the story, and things that will shock ad excite you. The assassinations, 
 for example, might be explained as repetitive but i think they are just right. Unfortunately i 
 really shouldn't reveal the plot to you but i can tell you that it will amaze you. The way the 
 2 plots are tied together works without flaw, and all the extra things you can do as Desmond reveal 
 corporate secrets and plans for you to be killed and stuff like that.
  
  Unfortunately there are some serious clipping issues. When enemies die the cut-scene that ensues 
 while doing a counter most often results in (Especially if you're on the top of a building) the 
 enemy's head or other body parts cutting through a piece of the environment and then when the cut-scene 
 ends they are sprung out of it onto the ground. Annoying, And it really takes away from the great 
 gameplay experience.
  
  Really, assassins creed only requires a few words to summarize. Stunning. Immersive. Amazing. MASTERPIECE. 
 
  
  I rate this 9.5. Brilliant.
  
  By ihs21596
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockaWuzHur
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I didn't like this game. Maybe its the fact so many of the games I play have you controlling the 
 character not "pupptering" him/her. I didn't like this game due to the fact that it was si difficult 
 to do simply things like attack, run and jump. Another thing I didn't like was the horrible tutorial 
 section where instead of being straight forward the game blurred and distorted the picture. (I 
 knoe it wasn't my TV I checked.) Fighting is not as satsyfying and easy as it should be. The "badass" 
 characther Altair is weak enough to be defeated by a common guard. The story was the only thing 
 that stood out to me. I didn't finish the game but from the bit I played it wasn't bound to be 
 interesting anyway.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Story: 10/10
  Gameplay: 4/10
  Fun Factor: 4/10
  
  Maybe Assassin's Creed 2 will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodeen80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game looks amazing. The visuals are the best I've seen on the 360 so far. The depth 
 of field on the camera is amazing and the textures are fantastic. The animations are flawless as 
 well, with perfect transitions from one movement to the next. All of this perfectly immerses you 
 into the world of the 12th century. 
  
  The major drawbacks are with the repetitiveness of the game play and the unrealistic AI. There 
 are essentially only 7 different types of missions on a game that can run from 30 to 40 hours. 
 The missions weren't in any way difficult nor do they become more difficult as the game progresses. 
 The ease of these missions is best portrayed by the Save Citizen type. You can quickly sneak up 
 and kill one or two guards unnoticed before you're attacked. The remaining guards then encircle 
 you, but only attack you one at a time. Once you get the Counter Attack power you just have to 
 wait for a guard to make a move and he's got your sword through him. There were battles where I 
 counted over 30 guard corpses around me, each one attacked me individually. They might as well 
 just get in a line.
  
  In addition to the game play drawbacks I found the story less than engaging, which was a surprise 
 to me considering Ubisoft's previous titles.
  
  Overall, I would recommend this title. It shows what the 360 is capable of and you never really 
 get sick of scaling walls and diving off of 20 story buildings
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UT_Wrestler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I finally bought Assassin's Creed, wanting to see what all the fuss was about. First off, I'd like 
 to say hats off to Ubisoft for introducing what I would consider the most innovative game of 2007. 
 In the story, you are Desmond, a modern day descendant of an accomplished assassin named Altaiir, 
 who lived in Israel during the crusades of the middle ages. Some large corporation captures Desmond 
 and forces him to plug himself into some sort of contraption that allows them to access Altaiir's 
 memories through his genetic codes. As Altaiir, you assassinate many high profile targets and come 
 closer to the truth, namely, why the hell are these modern day scientists so damn interested in 
 what an assassin was doing a thousand years ago? I won't spoil anything for you, but the ending 
 is really more of a cliffhanger and purposely leaves the game wide open to sequels. You've never 
 seen a story told like this one and it's definitely worth seeing.
  
  The gameplay is a mixed bag of good and bad. Good in that it introduces several new gameplay conventions. 
 The marionette control style is great; each action button controls a different body part. The main 
 assassination missions are fun. Climbing tall buildings and jumping into carts of hay from them 
 never gets old. However, all the side missions, many of which are actually mandatory, get old and 
 repetive and really drag the overall experience down.
  
  On the other hand, the graphics are absolutely gorgeous. The way they recreated the middle ages 
 cities of Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre is amazing, complete with thousands of citizens walking 
 the streets. The sound is equally impressive.
  
  You definitely need to play this game, but be weary of the repetitive sidequests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybersonix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  So you start the game in this futuristic enviroment as this man being captured by scientist. And 
 they say that your genes contain memory from your ____. And they want those memories. So your lying 
 in this machine and the adventure starts. There was a tutorial ofc before this but that was in 
 this strange environment. Like it was in your memory or something. Anyway so you finally start 
 of with all kinds of gear and kill stuff then you lose your gear and have to start over. And the 
 missions starts you need to kill 9 men. For everyone you get one piece of your gear. And so it 
 goes on.
  
  There are 3 men each in 3 citys. You go to one of the citys and climb high towers and such to get 
 a view point and rescue citizens. It was fun and new first 10 times. But then you got to do the 
 same in all 3 citys. Pickpocket, rescue, climb high tower and so on. The same all over again 9 
 times. It is fun but repetitive. They could have added something more to it.
  
  And the end was really weird and out of place. As in almost all action games there is something 
 out of the ordinary... And just before the credits you get a little cliff hanger, nothing big but... 
 It was really mute. It wasn't that good ending.
  
  All in all it was fun.
  
  
  But repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  From the time that I had popped in this game I have been hooked on it. The story telling is great 
 (despite the ending) and the voice acting was great. However, what made this game so addictive 
 was its breath taking scenery and its comfortable difficulty level. The scenery in this game is 
 really impressive, and whenever I play this game I always feel like I am right in the middle of 
 the Jerusalem in the middle ages. Also it is very neat how you can climb almost anything in this 
 game, yet nothing looks like it was put there specifically for platforming. Another thing that 
 Assassin's Creed has delivered on is not having an obvious linear story line. It gives you the 
 freedom to do whatever you like in the game, while still giving you tasks to move the story along. 
 The only problem I have in this game is with the citizens. Most of the time you will be walking 
 through the crowd minding your own business, but sometimes you have annoying beggars or drunks 
 whose sole purpose is to bug the heck out of you. Also the citizens dialogue is very repetitive 
 and after about the fifth citizen saved you have heard every single version of thank yous they 
 will say. Besides those minor details, I found Assassin's Creed to be refreshing and a lot of fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siriusblack477
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty when i started this game I didn't think I was going to get into it. As soon as I 
 got past the begining scenes I was hooked. The graphics were great and the missions were challenging 
 but not impossible. 
  
  I'm not sure how I feel about the flag collection. It was kind of fun to find them but I didn't 
 really kill myself to go look for them. I know you get an achivement for collecting all of them 
 but I didn't think it was worth it. 
  
  I didn't mind the ending because I knew that there is going to be another one. It would be a different 
 story if that was just going to be the end of the series. It was a cliffhanger but what do you 
 expect when there is more to come. 
  
  I am also on the side of people who wished he could swim. I have heard some good arguments against 
 it though. The weight of his gear would most likely weigh him down and drown him. So I appriciate 
 the realism. 
  
  All and all this was a great game. There was a lot to do and lots of people to kill. I can't wait 
 for the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlizard-beta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. This game has no multiplayer of any type but dont let this fact put you down. 
 It is 1129 Ad in the holy land in arabia in places like Jerusalam capitol of isreal acre no clue 
 on its whereabouts same for masyaf masyaf and damascas thge capitol of syria. you arte an assassin 
 named Altiar who is an enemy to the Templar knights. Most of the history in the game is true with 
 all the religion Knights and citys. You get an assassination target in a city who is a bad man 
 but first you must figure out about him and go around the city seeking info and people with info. 
 Be wary as you go along through the game are gaurds who will be on the look out for enemys which 
 might be you act like a plebian (Roman for peasant) and youll be fine. You will spend awile in 
 each city with vatriouse people. Then you plan your attack with your gathered info. there is nice 
 figthing between the Templars and guards and there are tons to write about on this game but its 
 time to stop. Over all recomend this game to all people of all ages (okay maybe not that last part) 
 thank you for reading and good by oh and you have cool weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed. Where to start? 
  We all know the story by now; you're an assassin  bla bla bla! So I won't bore you with the story 
 line. But I will say, that despite it being complete fiction, it's ok, just.
  
  Upon first starting to play the game  after the awful opening, you'll be thinking that Assassins 
 Creed is going to be a huge and amazing game. It has the looks of a super model, controls better 
 than any football team and is dripping in atmosphere. If ONLY the game play could have matched. 
 
  The game world, for me is one of the very best I've ever laid eyes on. It all looks so organic, 
 like the place really exists  today! And Altair moves so gracefully throughout the world. And 
 the controls, though not quite perfect, do feel next gen. 
  
  Things start to get sour after the first hour or two of play time. The game is set about leading 
 you down the path the designers want you to take. THERE IS NO OPTION FOR CHOICE!!!
  Not once will you be able to choice how or where you wish to complete you mission. I can accept 
 the designers needed to add the story line in, but this comes with a heavy cost (what's more important 
  story or game-play?) . 
  
  Because of the game being so ridged, you never feel like you need to carry on playing. You know 
 what's going to happen (as far as game-play goes) , it's repeated TOO much. Play any other game 
 and you feel compelled to play more, mainly because the game will evolve and add new and fresh 
 ideas. But Assassins Creed NEVER does this; you do the same thing over and over, and it's not like 
 there exciting things either.
  
  So is this a bad game, well, no. But it's far from what I had hoped for. Most people will be WOWED 
 by how it looks and by the way it feels, but for those of us that look beyond that  it's hollow! 
 
  If you're looking for an amazing looking game that controls like a dream, then look no further. 
 For everyone else that want depth, look elsewhere. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpool_r_gd
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  The Good
  The graphics is amazing and realistic as ever. The world your in is vast with places such as jeruselam. The 
 interaction between you and the people is great as you can now push them. The sword fights in the 
 game are exciting. Climbing is good but unrealistic. You feel like your in a real living world. The 
 horse riding is good.
  The Bad
  The story is very short. You only assassinate about 9 people in the whole game. When you finish the 
 short story there is no free roam mode or any thing to do. The end of the game is confusing. The 
 sword fights become too easy. The intevals when you go to a modern lab is annoying. The connection 
 between the modern man and alitar is pointless. No day to night cycle.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Game Play 8/10
  Story 5/10
  Music/Sound Track 9/10
  
  Thank you
  liverpool_r_gd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  
  Assassins creed is definately one of the best games ive ever played. The graphics are beutiful 
 and the detail is amazing. Assassins creed is about an assassin named altair who is beaten and 
 stripped of his master assassin rank. To regain his honor Altair must assassinate 9 Evil men. During 
 the 9 assassinations you will be introduced to three cities Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre each 
 of these cities are huge and are fully exploreable. You will see thousands of citizens doing there 
 daily activites, maybe going to the market to by a fish and stopping to listen to one of the various 
 preachers. The game is set during the third crusade when king richard and the crusaders went to 
 the Holy land in the name of God to defeat the saracens lead by Saladin. Now whats an assassin 
 without skills? Altair can easily scale houses, towers and castle walls with ease while swiftly 
 dodging angry guards and arrows. And if you get cornered you have weapons, you have a choice of 
 using a sword, shortblade, throwing knives, fists, and for some showoff moves your hidden blade. 
 If you are cornered you can attack yourself but the best thing to do is stay in a defensive stance 
 and wait for guards to attack you allowing you to pull off some Wicked counter-attacks. This is 
 not one of those games where enemys can take one thousand hits and have unrealistically long "Health 
 Bars" in fact in Assassins creed one well placed hit with a sword will take down a guard and in 
 this case you can only take a few hits before dying aswell. If you are not in guard mode you will 
 be able to block the attacks from there swords but you will lose some health from the knockback 
 effect. After a while when you have low sync (health) you will start to be hit in the flesh wich 
 is 2 or 3 times and your dead. Assassinations are they key aspects of assassins creed, the mechanics 
 are awesome simply pulling the right trigger will give you high profile options and releasing it 
 will give you low profile actions. High profile actions are more action based such as running jumping 
 and climbing while low profile actions will help you blend in with the croud like gentle push, 
 and blend. Some people say that assassins creed is repetetive, it is repetetive.... if you try 
 to rush through the story in a day, take your time, pay ATTENTION to the story line and i assure 
 you it will not be repetetive. The only reason i took off the 0.5 is because there is no multiplayer 
 in assassins creed it would be cool if there were co-op assassinations or assassin duels. But even 
 without multiplayer Assassins Creed is a game that will be remembered for a long time, I cant wait 
 for number 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decourcy33
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a fantastic game. It is a little quirky with its odd science fiction storyline, 
 which seems to pay off if the series continues further. Apart from the sci-fi aspects of the game, 
 the raw game as Altair in the 12th century is incredibly enjoyable. Again the storyline here is 
 a bit quirky and will make much more sense if they make a sequel or two, but generally you are 
 this intense Assassin that gets to cocky and breaks some rules according to the Assassin's Creed 
 and thus is made to regain his ranks by assassinating some nasty guys, or so they appear. 
  
  The gameplay is where the game shines, saying as the story is quite odd. Just walking around 
 in the Kingdom and the 3 cities, Acre, Jerusalem, and Damascus, is very fulfilling. You can climb 
 on pretty much anything with depth to it and wants you get the hang of it, you can do some pretty 
 awesome things. 
  
  There is very much two styles of play you can adopt when playing the game; one, you can play as 
 a stealthy assassin that uses his surroundings and disguises to outsmart the enemy, and when trouble 
 comes around you can make a hasty escape across rooftop, on the ground, or both. Secondly, you 
 can go all out and just slash everyone you see up, fighting your way through guards to get to your 
 goal. 
  
  The fighting system is fantastic. I love getting into fights. Of course as you start out you have 
 limited fighting skills but it really is to your benefit so you can learn a well-rounded style 
 assassin skills to help you later in the game. Once you get upgrades to your equipment and style, 
 fighting proves to be much more in depth.
  
  The free-running aspect is really what makes this game different than most other games. Everything 
 in the cities are open ground for you to move around on. Of course, the cities are massive. As 
 for the Kingdom and Damascus, I don't see how you cannot love to stand on top of these intensely 
 high building and look around at all the detail and life. It truly is incredible and it really 
 submerses you into the time. 
  
  The graphics are fantastic and there are few times where you notice some goofy glitches.
  
 
  All in all, if you are looking for a game where you are free to explore and enjoy the missions 
 as well, then this is what you are looking for. I recommend this game. Terrific. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke89330
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  pretty repetitive, i guess the Ubisoft Montreal didnt focus too much on the variety that became 
 a weak spot. the game have great story, and very interesting concept. all the main quests supports 
 the storyline pretty well and it drags you, but the side quests are complete repetition, not much 
 of mini stories, but actions that u will do over and over again, some ppl may like this repetition 
 since the combat is quite fun ( i think ) , some ppl may not cuz it can be boring if u don't like 
 this certain type of combat. overall, a MUST PLAY game, but the question is should you buy it? 
 i didnt, even though i will def remember this game for my life cuz its unique concept interweaving 
 between history memories and future gene laboratories, its still short and not much of replay value. 
 graphics are amazing in a macrocosmic way, but not very detailed in the individuals. my suggestions 
 for this game is rent it first, you may be "OMG" at the first time, but u could get bored just 
 within a day. everybody play different games in a different way, so its really your choice. Assassin's 
 Creed is a great game, but if it could be done much better, then, this game is going to be revolutionary. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emmanuell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets just get to he point. First of all the game was kind of a disapointment for what I and 
 many gamers out their wher expecting it to be but if we look away from the high expectations we 
 should be able to find Assassins Creed as a very solid experience.
  The pros in this game is definatly the art direction and the beautiful but yet simple graphics. 
 The other thing that I realy liked is the architctures and the inviroments, they felt like I was 
 in a world of jesus times well ofcourse this game is set a thousand years after jesus but it still 
 had that era flavor that made this game very uniq from other open worlds like GTA.
  The gameplay was okay but was a litle repetitev.
  Now for the cons. Now lets talk about the AI, 
 well their is nothing to talk about other than the AI is a compleat imbaresment to the gaming industry 
 in this time and age, which is the 21st cenury. I mean it doesent even compare to the AI of splinter 
 cell, which is a classic and that was it's only fault, but lets get back to our topic of Assassins 
 Creed and how the AI works. for example If I kill a soldier and then go close to another soldier 
 that so what hapend, and when I say close I mean 5 to 10 inches close and the soldier that iam 
 that close to doesent recognize me or even remeber what I did to his mate, then we have a problem. 
 
  The other thing that I realy didnt apreciate is how their is no day cycle or any kind of whether 
 effects, I mean come on couldent they had some raining and thunder to make the experince more believable 
 , I mean oblivion had that and it wasnt the best looking game, but it deliverd some stunning wether 
 effects and some day and night time and the stars wher twinkling and shining butifuly.
  So I realy feal that this game is decent but not decent enough to receav an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbomx42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  First off, not enough can be said about the graphics and artistic design in Assassins Creed. It 
 is great to too at and the cities look so real that you would think there a picture of these lands 
 from the past. The fighting is awesome and the weapons and combos keep you interested until the 
 end of the game. The characters are strong and complex, and the sound is also quite good with the 
 right combos of music and sound effects during play. The voice acting is also done really well 
 (nice work Kristen Bell) . 
  
  The biggest gripe I have with the game is the ending. This is maybe the most unsatisfying ending 
 for a game ever. It would not really be that bad, but the creators tried so hard to make a big 
 and drawn out story that you can't help but to be let down by the end of the game. I leaves you 
 confused and hanging. If you can detach yourself from the story, this is one of the most enjoyable 
 games out for the 360, if you havent played it yet, go rent/ buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zkc4
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the best looking games I have played. I enjoyed the movement and how you could 
 use a large portion of the items around you. The graphics were extremely detailed and I sometimes 
 took extra time roaming around just to view the scenery.
  
  The quests were pretty neat at first but became very repetitive after a couple of hours. There 
 are basically three types of quests in this game, and the only thing that changes about them is 
 the location. This led me to give this a lower score than most because I did not fully enjoy the 
 game and it has little to no replay value.
  
  If they would have added different quests and things to unlock I think this would have been one 
 of the best games ever, but the actual quests just ruined it for me.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I would suggest people try this game out because it is great, but it does not 
 have the "wow" factor in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentos_eater424
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassan's Creed looks amazing. The textures and enviroment look awesome. The world feels really 
 big and endless. And it's really cool going on top of a big cliff with your horse and just having 
 it get on its back legs and whinee! The sound effects sound really great and the voice acting is 
 really good and dramatic too. The story starts out pretty interesting but when it ends your just 
 like "uhhh what?". 
  T he gameplay is really repetative. Like swordfighting... if you get good at it you will probably 
 be able to fend yourself of any number of enemies and the cut scenes, although they look really 
 good, get kind of boring. There are a few glitches here and there but nothing that makes the game 
 impossible to play. The gameplay (story mode) is really repetative. There are like 4-5 kinds of 
 missions and you basicly just do these until you get a final assassination and then repeat. 
  There are some fun extra things to do like just climb to the highest point of the city and look 
 down at its beauty. Climbing buildings and throwing guards off it and stuff is fun too. 
  This game is pretty awesome but if only they had made the story and gameplay a bit better it could 
 have been super awesome. Ah well. I reccomend renting and if you finish the game and still want 
 to play some more, go ahead and buy it. You probably aren't going to finish this game more than 
 once though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sumuran
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the games where the developers through away old conventions and decided 
 to try something entirely new. 
  
  They came up with an amazing control scheme that makes other games look like a joke. You can control 
 different parts of your assassin's body and maneuver him around a vast open ended world. 
  
  You can visit three cities in the game. Each city has thousands of citizens, probably the most 
 ever seen in a game. It makes me wonder why Oblivion couldn't handle this many people... 
  
  Each city also has entirely climbable architecture. There is nothing you cannot climb and the 
 great thing is, its not built to allow you to climb it. What I mean is, each building looks entirely 
 real, not like it was made for you to climb. This adds a great cool factor when your escaping guards. 
 
  
  Speaking of the guards, you'll be fighting in this game. Alot. Altair has access to several tools 
 of death. The sword is the one you'll be using most often. Combat is one of the best parts of the 
 game. Your character will block attacks, your opponents will block attacks. You can dodge and try 
 to slash your opponent, overwhelm him, or counterattack. Counter Attacking is the easiest way to 
 win in combat but its also the less fun. You'll find yourself facing multiple enemies at once and 
 some people like me may choose to forgo counter attacking in order to make the game more challenging.
 
  
  Now we come to the meat of the game. The assassinations you must perform. The game offers nine 
 targets with a lot of optional ones. But all fall under the same thing. Go here, beat up this man, 
 sit on this bench and eavesdrop, all these things to figure out your target's ways. Where he is, 
 who he is, where he will be... things like that. But its an excercise in repetitiveness. You do 
 it once, you've done everything that you will do the entire game.
  
  The game also boasted interactive cutscenes which boil down to you being able to walk around while 
 someones talking to you. Add that to the fact the "amazing" twist in the story is within the first 
 two minutes of the game and its really not that amazing. The voice work is nice, but Altair sounds 
 strangely American in an otherwise middle eastern land. 
  
  The graphics are easily the best part of the game. You'll notice some pop up every once in a while 
 but even on a standard definition tv, this game looks brilliant. 
  
  In the end, Assassin's Creed is a great game that could have used more things to do in the world. 
 But it is a fun game nonetheless but I would recommend it as a rental before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaindog666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in it's class. Hands down.
  
  The visuals are fantastic. This is one of those games that you want to put on when you have friends 
 over who don't own a 360 or this game just so you can make them jealous. This game is fun just 
 when you're watching someone else play! and believe me, it will make your friends drool.
  
  The gameplay is just amazing. Running through the cities from rooftop to rooftop feels so smooth 
 and the animations are perfect. Have I even mentioned the best (and most obvious) part yet?? You're 
 an assassin!
  
  The stealth kills and swordplay are so much fun.
  
  A lot of people say this game is very repetitive, and it is. BUT, let me tell you something... 
 working your way behind your prey and stabing them in the back with a stealth kill, or running 
 up and jumping on them and stabbing them through the neck as you land on them NEVER GETS OLD.
 
  The freeruning in this game is so fun and well done that you'll want to climb every tower and 
 viewpoint.
  
  My ONLY complaint with this game is that there is only 1 save game file that autosaves, so once 
 you beat the game you have to start over from the beginning.
  This is really only a problem becasue if you're like me, as soon as I beat the game I wanted to 
 call all my friends over so they could watch me play it and see how amazing playing as the assasin 
 is, only to realize I had to start at the beginning again with my none of my gained skills/weapons 
 and health.
  So what did I do? 
  I played through the game again, got Altier beefed up again and then called my friends. lol.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron2k2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has to be one of the best 360 games out there today. First of all the graphics 
 are amazing. It really shows the time era of the story line. Which by the way takes place in the 
 1100's.
  
  The game itself is extremely advanced. One example of this is the fact that you are able to move 
 your character during cutscenes. It makes you feel more like it is real because you can totally 
 look away from people who are talking to you or look them straight in the eye.
  
  This game also has extremely amazing AI. If you jump off of the roof of a building and land next 
 to people they will make remarks such as, "What is that guy thinking?". Also if you do anything 
 weird near guards they will become more and more suspicious of you. They will follow you either 
 until you are able to hide from them or until they kill you.
  
  In the game you get just the right amount of weaponary ranging from a sword, to a hidden dagger 
 used to secretly assassinate the enemy.
  
  Altogether, Assassin's Creed is an amazing game that deserves a solid 9.5 out of 10. I highly recommend 
 this game for anybody who likes games such as Splinter Cell, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the best game i have played for ages. You play as an assassin named Altair. 
 You can roam around the different cities. You can climb buildings and then leap off the top. The 
 cities look fantastic. The people around Altair react naturally especially the drunks who push 
 you around for no reason.
  The graphics are nice and arent choppy. Killing the targets is fun but can get tiring.
  Pro:
 
  1) Awesome graphics.
  2) Brilliant environment
  3) Platforming feels very natural
  4) Mission can be done by different ways
  
  Cons:
  No major ones.
  
  This is a must play 
 and should be enjoyed by everyone. No one will regret this game. In the end i would say it is a 
 must buy. Its even better than the godfather.  
 OUT OF 10................. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IHatePipe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that when I first saw this game I was skeptical. I love FPS so this game is a little 
 out of my element. So for my first RPG game I am having a blast! Climbing those high sky scraper 
 lookout views is so much fun!
  
  My wife loves the fact that there are horses to ride around and make them jump and rear back! She 
 rides horses in real life so she liked that part of the game.
  
  I love jumping from roof to roof and tossing dudes to their deaths from the top. When I'm in a 
 huge battle I always look to go up to drop dudes down to their deaths or slash them as they try 
 to climb up to get me!
  
  I recommend this game to ANYONE who likes assassin type games. It's a really fun game with great 
 graphics! You will keep playing and playing and playing until your fingers start to ACHE!
  
  CommAndrow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed starts out great. You are Altair, and assassin in the Holy Land. You get to shove 
 your hidden blade through the throats of helpless targets. What more could you want? With big cities 
 and fun climbing, it is extrememly fun.
  
  But right from the start things don't add up. For example, you can do a "scholar", prayer-like 
 pose to blend in. It makes enough sense, but then you see that you can walk up to a guard in this 
 position, assassinate him, and move on unnoticed, even though another guard watched you while you 
 did it. 
  
  I am making it sound worse than it is though. Basically, you must assassinate nine targets in the 
 game, three for each of the three cities. It may sound like a quick task, but its not THAT quick. 
 You gradually gain new weapons to your arsenal. 
  
  Another bothersome thing is the repetitive sword-fighting. Near the end, you will have twenty men 
 attack you -- except they won't take you at the same time. Oneat a time, they slash at you, you 
 block or counter, and the cycle continues until you pick them each off. This makes killing even 
 fifty soldiers easy. 
  
  The issues with this game are that it gets old near the end, the end is confusing and leads you 
 to beleive there will be another Assassin's Creed, and the game doesn't fit together pefectly.
 
  
  But there are numerous good things about this game, however. An example is that it has very, very 
 good graphics and lighting. It is also fun to leap on unsuspecting civilians' backs and stab them 
 in the back of the head. Even picking off twenty guards isn't boring at first. The climbing and 
 controls are also smoothe, and climbing to the top of giant spires is rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hojo80
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game caught my eye awhile back when i read about it's PC release in a magazine. so when it 
 came out on the consoles i scooped it up, eventually on both consoles cause i my xbox was kidnapped 
 by my gf when she needed something to play while she was away at her job as a traveling nurse, 
 that's how much i enjoyed this game, i bought it twice. it is confusing, the context in which you 
 come to be Altair but once you get past that it's a very fun and immersive experience. you can 
 scale anything building that has something that can be used as a foot hold, which is pretty much 
 anything. scaling the buildings is a guilty pleasure in this game, like web slinging was in spider-man 
 2 and 3. it's just plain fun. the puppeteer system is an innovative way to control a playable character 
 and it's simple concept makes for a learning curve that's just right giving you a real sense of 
 accomplishment as you learn to control Altair more and more efficiently. fighting is so simple 
 to, keeping to the basic attack, defend, counter, and dodge but making to control scheme for it 
 so fluid that before you know it you're pressing combinations of buttons merely on reflex.
  
  the few visual glitches in the game are easily overlooked in the grand scheme of the game.
 
  
  this game is just plain fun and ubisoft has created a real stepping stone for even more innovation 
 in the genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Well the game is just really really good. The weapons, the graphics, the game is just good. The 
 only reason that I rated it 9.5 instead of a perfect 10 out of 10 is that the story could of been 
 a little of better then what it was. But other than the story the game was awesome. I mean the 
 weapons were great the graphics were great and the gameplay was great . But I thought that the 
 weapons was the best. The weapons were the best since the secret weapon rocks and the best sword 
 according to me is the long sword since you can do awesome sword finishers that completely destroy 
 the red knights. A couple of other things that are awesome about the games is the graphics. The 
 graphics completely stand out since they so close to real life. 
  But the last thing to me that is awesome in the game is that in the game you can do cool stuff 
 like blending in the the praying people so the red knights don't know that its you. Another way 
 that the game is awesome is that you can do cool things like run up walls and when your on the 
 top of buildings you can jump from building to building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayn83
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Assassin's Creed, I was super excited. Free roaming gameplay, assassins 
 and a development team who made one of my favorite gaming series, Prince of Persia, what could 
 go wrong? Reviewers were mixed, some loved it and some didn't like it. At first, I naturally hated 
 the game because it was a "flop" but then I felt that was unfair and I gave it a shot. After playing 
 it through it all (and I mean all) , Assassin's Creed is an unforgettable experience and Jade Raymond 
 is hot.
  
  You play as the assassin Altair in the holy land circa 1191. Basically, you're given the task of 
 killing nine political figures and restoring order to the land. You're given a wide array of tools 
 from swords, daggers, throwing knives and of course hidden blades. You can climb any building you 
 want with a go anywhere you want vibe. Think of this as Grand Theft Carriage and Jade Raymond is 
 hot.
  
  ... or is it? See you're actually a guy named Desmond who is controlling your past self using a 
 device known as the animus. Basically, these bad dudes want to steal the knowledge of your dead 
 ancestors. Ok, so it has a sci-fi subplot but it was interesting and that's all that matters. And 
 by the way, Jade Raymond, marry me.
  
  Graphically, Assassin's Creed is stunning. Beautiful vistas, complex architecture and an attention 
 to detail second to none, this game looks great. No wonder the recently released PC version has 
 such high specs. The game has occasional framerate issues and bugs in this department but for the 
 most part, it looks phenomenomal. Another aspect that looks great is Jade Raymond.
  
  The sound also is atmospheric and suits the game well. None of the Prince of Persia hard rock crap. 
 The voice acting is also superb but Altair sounds like a California teenager. Kristen Bell also 
 does voice acting and she's easily becoming my favorite girl ever second only to Jade Raymond.
 
  
  The main problem with the game is that it can get repetive. Before you get to the satisfying assassination, 
 you have to do a variety of climbing buildings, saving citizens, pickpocketing, collecting flags 
 and the like. The problem is these sequences often repeat and feel identical to the last time you 
 did them. I felt the developers did this to make the game longer. You can actually avoid a lot 
 of these extra missions if you don't want to but then the game would probably be 4 hours long and 
 that's way too short for a $59.99 game. Unlike Jade Raymond who is the perfect height.
  
  Another problem is the relative simplicity of the combat. The "animus" that Desmond uses to control 
 Altair and each of the 360's face buttons become a different part of the body. The controls work 
 well and are intuitive but combat becomes relatively one button mixed in with occassional blocks 
 and counters. Sometimes the whole free-running bit gets touchy but I usually didn't find a gripe 
 with that. I would definitely want to touch Jade Raymond... uhhhh.. nevermind.
  
  Even with the complaints, I loved this game. It is so exhilirating and satisfying to do things 
 like climbing buildings, killing your target then running from your pursuers and even throwing 
 homeless ladies around that the multitude of flaws that you can notice become trivial. I think 
 reviewers had really high hopes and that ultimately influenced their final verdict of the game. 
 The game regardless of how you slice it, looks and feels like 1191 AD and that is simply a testament 
 to the team at Ubisoft. I think if you like these Action Adventure type games, you owe it to yourself 
 to take the creed.
  
  Now you might be wondering who is Jade Raymond. She's the sexy producer of Assassin's Creed. Why 
 am I obsessed? I find her attractive, charming and a gamer. She's simply the perfect girl. So yeah 
 forget Jade Raymond and play Assassin's Creed, it's really good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Why is it that past life therapists will almost always tell you that you were once a member of 
 the aristocracy, someone famous or an ancient monarch? The reason is quite simple, that we're more 
 inclined to believe something that appeals to our ego. If someone tells us we used to be a 16th 
 century toilet cleaner than we might be inclined to ask questions.
  
  If you detect a hint of scepticism, you're right on the money. But that didn't spoil my enjoyment 
 of Assassin's Creed, a game based entirely on the idea that we carry our ancestors' memories in 
 our DNA. It's a hugely thoughtful piece of entertainment that throws up some pretty challenging 
 ideas for a videogame. Like BioShock, this could be another sign that video games are growing up.
 
  
  Stepping back in time 1,000 years to the Holy City of Jerusalem, you might just as easily be treading 
 the bustling streets of modern-day London. The point is that, people, religion and society really 
 haven't changed that much since 1191. It's pretty obvious that Ubisoft is using the Third Crusade 
 to make its point about 21st century ills. At times, it's profound, at others its political allegories 
 are as obvious and clunky as an episode of the BBC's Robin Hood.
  
  Too few games make us think and question great ideas, and this game deserves a lot of credit for 
 that. As a member of the Hashshashin sect of assassins, there's no clear-cut morality. The men 
 you're killing are definitely complete bastards, but they're principled bastards. There's a growing 
 dilemma when you slowly realise that it's the tyrants, the people-smugglers and the maniacal scientists 
 are the ones driving civilisation forward.
  
  But freedom to think is not necessarily the same as freedom of choice, and really there isn't any 
 decision-making to be done in-game. Sinan, leader of the Hashshashin barks out his orders at the 
 start of each mission and you must journey to Jerusalem, Acre or Damascus like a good lap-dog.
 
  
  Arguably, the game's biggest problem is that it's so rigidly formulaic. Each mission follows a 
 set pattern of briefing, travel, exploration and then assassination. After the first two targets, 
 you already know where the game is going next.
  
  What you might not expect is what type of game Assassin's Creed is. Despite coming from the maker 
 of Splinter Cell and Prince of Persia, this is neither a stealth game nor a platformer. In fact 
 it's a parkour (or 'free running') game in medieval robes. The vast majority of the game is spent 
 climbing walls and jumping from rooftop to rooftop. The dynamism of Altair's movement is unlike 
 anything we've seen before, as is the intelligent way he climbs up each building differently.
 
  
  You really couldn't ask for a more convincing simulation of one of the world's youngest and most 
 free-spirited sports. On the other hand, you could have wanted a more challenging one. The control 
 system is wonderfully simple, but this is also a downfall. So much of what Altair does is almost 
 automatic that it often robs you of a sense of challenge. Danger and exhilaration are an inseparable 
 couple. Without one you can't have the other.
  
  Combat suffers a similar fate, despite there being a certain amount of satisfaction in cutting 
 down ten men without taking a hit. It's a matter of timing above all else, and the results are 
 particularly visceral. But ultimately there's no great sense of mastery because Altair is so devastatingly 
 overpowered. I'm all for making gaming more cinematic, but it almost always seems to come at game 
 play's expense.
  
  Despite this, you still have to admire Assassin's Creed as a technical powerhouse. The Third Crusade 
 is a fresh and inspiring setting, recreated with a wealth of detail unseen in any other 360 game. 
 It's impossible not to be absorbed by the exotic atmosphere. Every street is crowded with people 
 going about their daily business, which is not only graphically impressive but also works as a 
 stealth feature. Blending in with the crowd is easy, and you can then execute your target with 
 extreme prejudice to create outright panic. They're the perfect diversion allowing you to escape 
 onto a rooftop.
  
  Another feature that really grabs you around the throat and shakes you are the spectacular panoramic 
 views. Climbing up on top of a minaret almost certainly isn't acceptable behaviour, but it does 
 reward you with a seemingly endless view of the Holy Land. It's a beautiful sight, and one that 
 reminds you why so many people consider it the most important place on earth.
  
  Not being an expert on history, it's hard to comment on the authenticity of it all, but the believability 
 factor is definitely there. And while the religious aspect of the Third Crusade is never even touched 
 upon, it's possible to learn something about the conflict and the two warring leaders Richard the 
 Lionheart and Saladin.
  
  Jesper Kydd's soundtrack is subtle to the point of hardly being noticeable. It's mostly drowned 
 out by the ambient noise and a very annoying bleeping sound that occurs whenever you're under suspicion. 
 If one thing is going to ruin the sense of immersion, it's the noise BLEEP, BLEEP, BLEEP happening 
 for five minutes at a time.
  
  But there's little doubt that you'll enjoy playing Assassin's Creed from beginning to end because 
 it's a unique experience. The concept of a parkour assassin is pretty wild, and the setting really 
 hasn't been seen in a console game before.
  
  If I sound a little hard on Assassin's Creed, it's only because it should have been a ten out of 
 ten. This Middle Eastern adventure is one of the most beautiful cinematic games ever devised, but 
 not one of the most rewarding to play. It's also one of the most mature, thoughtful games of recent 
 years, challenging you with ideas and concepts that are far from clear cut. But where is the freedom 
 of choice? Unless you count the difference between the dagger or the sword, there really isn't 
 any.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Quej
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  This game is great, well worth the money. The movement of your character is brilliantly fluid wether 
 running on teh ground or on Rooftops. Even the Sword fighting flows like real life. The missions 
 can be a little repetative but they do get gradually harder to achieve your goal. I spent hours 
 just walking around the vast expanses just doing the side missions like rescuing citizens in trouble 
 or pickpocketing people for valuable information.
  
  The graphics are top notch and the whole environment is visibly unblemished. The game area is broken 
 down into three vast cites that are like massive playgrounds in themselves, not to mention the 
 gaping environments outside the cites.
  
  The fighting is insanely well planned out and executed. You can choose to pick fights with unlimited 
 amounts of soldiers (although early in the game, you will get your ass kicked) or you can attack 
 while on horse back (which takes some mastering) .
  
  The cut scenes, while not fantastic, dont let the game down and the concept of the game (you are 
 actually the Assassins distant family and they use technologhy to implant his memories into you) 
 is quite original.
  
  All in all a great game that will have you playing for hours.
  
  Buy it, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N8terz
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I will start out by saying wow.. this game looks absolutely stunning. Character animations are 
 almost flawless with very little if not any strange or clunky movements that take away from most 
 games nowadays. The concept of this game is just plain sick... other than the strange story line 
 it portrays. You will be blown away by the games overall appearance.. but don't let that fool you. 
 The combat when you first start playing is very basic. As you progress through the game you will 
 unlock new equipment allowing you to pull off more moves such as counters and insta-kill knife 
 throws. 
  
  Once you get over the games beauty.. you will know what I'm talking about when I say I think this 
 game is very bland. It got to a point (for me at least) where I couldn't be touched because of 
 the countering system. Personally.. I dont like playing games that don't challenge me because I 
 think its a waste of time. If the enemy went to attack you, with the press of a button you could 
 turn his hard hitting sword thrust into an insta-kill for you. The kills seem very cool the first 
 couple times you do it.. and you do do it alot.. but after you pull it off EVERY time the computer 
 attacks you, if gets very stale. The AI (enemies you fight) are not the most intelligent beings 
 you've ever fought in a game. They'll hop from roof to roof to come get you and occasionally fall 
 off "by accident". When your surrounded only one to two enemies attack you at the same time ( even 
 if theres seven to eight people) . All in all I think Assassins's creed has got to be one of the 
 most blow up games of 06 and a big let down for myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aidey07
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward too the game and bought my copy on release! Playing on it i was enjoying 
 myself, and was overwhelmed by the beautiful graphics and visuals, the cities too look awesome. 
 But after completing it i found myself dissapointed that the game is as everyone said repetitive, 
 each mission is the same just in a different place with a different character... investigate, hunt 
 him down, battle and assassinate... over and over. The fighting as well looks great but is too 
 simple for a gamer too get excited about after repeating the same move on 100s of soldiers. Once 
 you've completed it you cant do anything but replay the game from scratch... no multiplayer, no 
 extra missions, its not quite the medieval GTA you thought it would be after you start. The game 
 would be even quicker if it wasnt for its expansive cities and the large expanse of land you have 
 too ride on too get too each one. Its just a shame their wasnt more sub-missions (finding flags 
 lets be honest is no sub-mission but a cheap excuse too lengthen the game and sell strategy guides) . 
 I look forward to the sequels none the less, their is so much promise with Assassins Creed, and 
 its worth playing... but if you own it, it'll only be a matter of a short time before its traded 
 back in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshuaM55
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  First off, I am trying not to be so negative, this game is really good, but there are soo many 
 little annoying things that you can't get past.
  
  Okay, the gameplay first, and this is what you will spend most of your time doing, fighting. The 
 controls are simple for when you start, and as you knowledge of the game increases, the techniques 
 you can do increase. Unfortunately, there is a lack of upgrades that Altair can upgrade to, only 
 simple things like counter (which luckily you get right near the start, you WILL need this skill) 
 and the ability to throw knives. This is it really, you have your combo kills and short knife that 
 you start with, that are fun to swap between, depending on how quick you want the fight to be. 
 And of course, your best weapon by far is the Hidden Blade, allowing you to perform beautifully 
 crafted kills to the back of the neck, or through the chest. In terms of your weapons upgrading 
 as you progress, they do, but unless you were told, you really would not know. The only real thing 
 this weapon upgrade provides is the design of the weapon. You attack by using the X button, and 
 you lock onto the targets with the left trigger, or if you feel like running, the right trigger. 
 The fighting is literally just using the X button, but it really works well (look at Fable) allowing 
 you to perform a range of attacks by how many times you press the X button, or when you press it. 
 The fighting is well put together overall, but this is broken up by annoying cut scenes that cannot 
 be skipped, even once you have finished the game, and the lack of advancements in your techniques 
 through the game, the controls are mastered early on for fighting, and it is actually too easy 
 at time. As good as the story is, once is unfortunately enough.
  
  Outside the fighting, you can blend into the background by holding A and acting like a normal citizen, 
 even though you do look slightly odd =) . You have two profiles, activated by the triggers, when 
 holding the right you enter active profile, while when you don't press the right trigger, you are 
 in low profile. While in active profile, you run, and holding A means you sprint, while pressing 
 it allows you to jump (again a lot of one button system that really does work) . However, because 
 you have no out right control of where you go, in the trickier sections, you can end up running 
 up the wrong object, or running into an object that for some reason you cannot run up. This is 
 fine when not being chased, but when you have 7 guards on your back, and you fall off a wall, you 
 get a bit annoyed. 
  
  One aspect of this game that cannot be faulted however is the graphics, and the attention to detail.
 
  The graphics are beautifully put together, and the variation from cut scene to the actual game 
 has very little difference. (This is not slating the cut scenes, but praising the in game graphics) . 
 For each of your Assassinations, you have to complete a certain amount of tasks so you can find 
 out the best way to attack your primary target. This can range from the 3 minute timed killing 
 for the other lazy 'injured' assassins to pick pocketing info from what would otherwise be normal 
 citizens.
  There are 6 to complete, but only 3 are compulsory, so you can do the game quicker the second time 
 round if you enjoy the game that much, or achievement hunters can complete all 6 in each section.
 
  As well as the normal assassinations for the areas, Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem, there are flags 
 to be found (which are also found in Kingdom and Masyaf,) people to save from guards harassing 
 them, and view points to reach, really showing off the game's graphics. Again, achievement hunters, 
 this I just for you!
  
  Overall, the game will last you at least 20 hours, and around 40 if you try for the extras, but 
 due to the amount of fighting that need to be done that is a bit lack-lustre at times, and the 
 numbers of things wrong with the normal aspect of escaping and running, this game is not all that 
 it could be, and not all that it should be.
  However, just like Dark sector, this is setting up the next game in the instalment, and hoping 
 development in Desmond's character is there; expect a good promising game for number 2.
  For this one however, definitely worth playing, but not worth the full price it game out at, and 
 the hype is unfortunately incorrect on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing. it is based in a present day laboratory (present) and the 1100's middle 
 east (memory) . at first it is hard to follow the story line because you seem to jump right into 
 the game (because you will find out more as the game continues) i liked how you just were not the 
 assassin named altair, but you were really a man named desmond and is put into this machine call 
 the animus (which is mind in latin) and you play altair as a memory. changing weapons in this game 
 uses the d-pad, which using the X360 d-pad sucks. at first it is hard to learn the controls but 
 as you play the game you feel more comfortable using them. you have this amazing ability called 
 "eagle vision", it makes you see in a darker tone but hilights you targets. red-enemy/guard, yellow-target, 
 blue-allies, white-objective. (SPOILERS) at the end of the game you get the "eagle vision" for 
 desmond, and you get hints that there will be a sequel centered around the 1300's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock138
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I thought it was freaking amazing, as many other people did.
  
  You know, once you kill that first person your bloods pumping, your hands are shaking.. and 
 your still shooting and your still getting headsh -- wait... that was the first time I played counter-strike..
 
  
  Oh yeah..
  
  Well this game is pretty awesome to begin. You jump off some buildings into some hay. Use your 
 hidden blade to assassinate some peeps. Just some good 'ol fashion murdering.
  
  But then as the game goes on you realize you're doing the exact... same... thing... in... every... 
 town... /die.
  
  This game is good for renting, but I don't recommend investing hard earned cash into this game. 
 So yeah, rent this and if you like it.. ya know.. go ahead and buy it and get bored of it in a 
 couple of weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efielret
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game after passing it, I didn't even want to look at it. Don't get me wrong, it's a really 
 great game.. But the replay value is very low on this. I've only done 3 reviews, I doubt anyone 
 read them. But I'll keep this one shorted just like the play time the game left me.
  
  Story: Altair.. Never mind, Desmond Miles, a bartender and ex-assassin. Is taken in for an investigation 
 leading to an ancient artifact for some crazy scientist, that probably watches him sleep.. I know, 
 it's creepy. Desmond is to go in "The Animus" the retrieve his ancestor's memories of where this 
 artifact is. Basically you are Desmond Miles playing his ancestor, Altair's life. Where he is sent 
 to kill 9 targets that the Assassin's Creed has given him. This is set in the Holy Land.
  
  Game-play: Ubisoft did great work here, seeing as this is Prince of Persia style. Running up walls, 
 jumping roof to roof, climbing houses, and assassinating is done flawlessly. The only thing that 
 they didn't do right is add different quest. You have about four types of them to get to the assassination 
 point. There is "save the monk/girl", "kill 2-6 guards undetected", "gather flags", and "climb 
 a tall building", only then can you do the assassination, I don't believe you have to do them all 
 but... It just got boring so I did them all anyways. And so will you! No! So will you!
  
  Graphics: Flawless victory. =) Oh, oops. Got carried away. Seriously the graphics are great. Can't 
 go wrong here.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is done good, but Altair's voice doesn't seem to fit him. They could have done 
 better. But besides that it's all good.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 9/10
  Scenery: 10/10
  Story: 8/10
  Controls: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Length: 5/10
  Replay Value: 
 3/10
  
  I have nothing more to say but at a used game price of $39.99, it's something you can think of. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that is all dressed up in amazing graphics and is really a boring game. 
 The story is really confusing and they just throw you into the story mode without explaining much. 
 At that point, I was saying this game sucks. However, after my first assassination, I said this 
 game is pretty cool. But after the next two assassinations, I was back to my first response this 
 game sucks. Seriously, it is the same thing every bleepin time! That thing where you have to climb 
 to the top of the building to view the area which I can't think of the name right now, Eavesdrop, 
 pickpocket, interrogation, assasination, move on to the next place. And going to the next place 
 is a pain. You have to ride on horseback to somewhere like 80 miles away. Couldn't they just fast 
 forward you to the next town? I don't know but what I'm trying to say is that this game is just 
 a repetitive game that covers this flaw with revolutionary graphics. If you like games that are 
 the same thing over and over again, then this is the game for you. However one of the things I 
 liked about this game was the free running. It was fun running on top of buildings and jumping 
 around, but after a while it gets boring. OVerall, Assassin's Creed is a boring game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a realy good game with tons of originality and I really liked it. The action 
 in Assassin's Creed is amazing and you never get bored of a good fight with a handful of guards. 
 The storyline of Assassin's Creed is really good and it's placed in an interesting moment in time 
 but the levels tend to repeat themselves in a way. For instance, each level consists of killing 
 a different target but you basically do the same things each level to get your information on the 
 victim. There's no variety in the levels and after playing three or four levels you get bored and 
 will probably stop playing. On the up side, Assassin's Creed has amazing graphics. The game world 
 of Assassin's Creed is really detailed and has had a lot of thought put into it making the game's 
 gameplay really fun. Assassin's Creed is a good game... if you can persist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Nice Huge World, Great Gameplay, Unbelievable Graphics, and Awesome Moves! Good Storyline 
  
  Lots of Side Objectives. Abit repetative sometimes doing the side missions and hiding spots. 
 But it's still fun to do. Running around the cities, jumping roof to roof and climbing buildings 
 is Very Fun! What I really like also is how he moves around while escaping or climbing.
  
  Nicely Detailed Character. The Character is awesome! Lots of people would think he's like Spiderman, 
 but I think he's more like Batman. Watch his stance when on a ledge hehe. And plus, AC Character 
 seems to be creeping through the night. Storyline reminds me of Matrix. Plugging back into the 
 past and waking back into the Real World.
  
  Riding the Horses traveling to other cities is also fun. You can also wield your sword while riding 
 on a horse.
  
  The Fighting system I would say is also pretty repetative except that it's still fun. Fight 3 at 
 the same time. Pretty much block, strike, strike for a combo. Love the Instant Kills! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalmagic46
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  when assassins creed was first released everyone was like OMG THIS GAME IS TEH BOMBZ!!!!11!!111!!!!!1. 
 so i didnt care much about it. so i finaly decide to buy it and man i should have gotten it a looooong 
 time ago. the basic story is your a dude who gets kid napped because this company want info thats 
 stored in your memories. they put you in this machine that lets you control your ancestor. in order 
 to unlock this memory you have to go through the memories in front of it. so you defy the assassins 
 creed or the rules but, instead of death you are stipped of your rank and equipment and you have 
 to fifght your way to the top. one of my favorite things about this game is jumping accross building 
 and scaling walls. so you beat the crap out of people, eavsdrop, and pickpocket to get the information 
 on your target, you find him , go through a cutscene, and you kick his ass. but its not all that 
 easy after you assassinate your target the guards will be on your ass so watch out. but guards 
 arent you only obsticle you got people carring pots and retards who whant nothing more then to 
 see you die (seriously those retards will stop at nothing to kill you) if you love achievments then 
 this game should satisfy you. the achievments are rediculously easy to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splo0ge
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was a title I was waiting for when I first watched the trailers on Gamespot. The 
 gameplay looked like something that I have never played before, it really got my attention. I bought 
 the game the day it came out, and I can truly say this is one of my favorites for XBOX 360. The 
 storyline was great, even though a little weird at the end. It was kind of like a mini history 
 lesson as well which was kind of cool. The graphics are beautiful on this game. Every structure 
 is detailed differently. The citys are vast and there is so much to explore in the towns. The voice 
 acting was very good for each character or situation. The combat system was put together well. 
 Being able to counter or dodge an enemy was a must when you are fighting 10+ guards. The assassination 
 feature was definitely the best in regards to combat. Being able to kill a guard while running 
 at full speed with a swift stab was awesome! There were not too many flaws in this game that I 
 could see. I did get stuck a couple of times when jumping walls and had to restart the game. The 
 sound skipped a little sometimes. Other than that, this game was definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfdsgjsgfjosigj
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 11, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is basically a platformer, a jumping game. There is a more or less irrelevant 
 frame story around a series of almost identical tasks, where you climb towers in order to receive 
 always the same type of tasks: 
   kill a number of people
   beating up people to extract information and then kill them
   escort "brothers" killing people 
 in their way
   pickpocket letters
   eavesdrop
   race jump across the roofs 
  After the first two missions, this becomes really boring and annoying, because every mission is 
 basically the same, including the same voices, even the same phrases of what they say. In every 
 city there is always a number of citizens you can "rescue" by killing at least 5 but more often 
 10, 20 or more people. Most of these rescue cases are poor women and it remains a mystery why all 
 the soldiers of every army would constantly accuse poor, ugly old women of steeling all over the 
 city. There are a few men you can rescue too - but it is the same with them every time. 
  
  There will always be plenty of people to kill in your way: all aggressive soldiers hating you and 
 with just the one goal of killing you; other than that, they don't seem to have anything else to 
 do. 
  
  The cities are really amazing, the graphics are stunning and the voice actors have done a great 
 job. A wasted effort, though, because the game itself is completely hollow, no surprises, no humor, 
 just a constant hack and slash with no particular challenges either. 
  
  If an alien race would classify us by our computer games, it would have to conclude that we are 
 one stupid, blood-thirsty, brutal bunch of killers with no other goal but to kill everybody else 
 and Assassin's Creed makes exactly that point!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seker456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is ill. It is amazing it is almost perfect. you are like a hit man in the past but your 
 really a guy in the future in a machine to see memories of his ancestors.
  
  Strengths
  
  A Great story witch has great battles and ways of killing people. ( fist, short blade, throwing 
 knife, sword, and hidden blade) Keeps you playing for a while. a intersting way on how it loads 
 your Altiar (main charecter) and you can move him around and hit with sword and stuff in a blue 
 white room. action like jumping on buildings and all that stuff. Extreamly fun.
  
  Weaknesses.
  long loading
  some freezing dosent completely just for a sec
  long unskip able 
 cut sceans.
  finish game to quickly to easy.
  killing inocent makes you lose hp
  as you can see there just minor so it dosent ruin the game and you must be patient. when you beat 
 the game you dont loose hp when killing an inecent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo_360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was one of the most hyped games of last year. It is a stealth action game where 
 you have to assassinate various targets in a devious way, or so you would hope. Ubisoft promoted 
 the game to death and had it lined up as their biggest game of the 2007 holiday season. It was 
 shown at E3 and other events and it looked very impressive, however it has not fully lived up to 
 the hype that surrounded it.
  
  In Assassins Creed you play as Altair, an assassin, surprisingly enough. As an assassin you are 
 given the task of killing various people and not getting caught while doing it. Before you kill 
 a target in Assassins Creed you must investigate their daily schedule and when would be the best 
 time to take them out. To do this you engage in a series of side missions ranging from sitting 
 on a bench and eavesdropping on someone's conversation, to pick pocketing a vital piece of information 
 from one of their servants. For every person you assassinate you have to carry out these mundane 
 tasks and they never change, you are always doing the same thing and it is these side missions 
 that make up the majority of the game.
  
  When murdering one of your targets you are given barely any options on how to go about it. Basically, 
 you can go up behind someone and take them out with a stealth kill or if it comes to it you can 
 engage in combat with the person. When it comes to allowing for creativity, Assassins Creed pales 
 in comparison to a game like Hitman. 
  
  Assassins Creed gives you a huge world to travel around. You unlock different parts of the world 
 as you progress with the games story and when you have been to a place once you can fast travel 
 there the next time. The cities are the closest thing a game has come to creating a living, breathing 
 world. You have the option of roaming around Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus. These cities are extremely 
 busy and if you walk the streets you will have to push your way past beggars, preachers and lunatics. 
 This makes travelling by the roofs of buildings a greatly better option.
  
  Altair has the ability to leap across roofs, hang from ledges and perform other difficult platforming 
 moves. Doing this is all made incredibly easy by the games controls, which allow you to leap majestically 
 around cities by hitting A. This makes travelling around entertaining since you can move fluidly 
 around without having to perfect a complicated control system.
  
  The combat is also made very simple, by just holding down the block button and then attacking immediately 
 before your enemy hits you can counter them, which usually results in their demise. By using this 
 technique you can take on massive amounts of enemies without really having to worry about them 
 killing you. Although these kills are satisfying to pull off at first, they make the game far too 
 easy. You can also just mash on the attack button to kill enemies but this is neither a fun nor 
 effective way of taking them down.
  
  Assassins Creed's story is a fairly interesting one, which you will want to experience for yourself, 
 so I won't give too much away. The games cut-scenes are quite unique in that they allow you to 
 move around while characters are conversing. Unfortunately, the dialogue is incredibly boring and 
 you will loath having to listen to people ramble on in a pointless direction. Despite the bad dialogue 
 most of the voice acting is very good, with the one exception being the main character Altair. 
 For some reason the developers or whoever cast the roles, decided to give him an American accent 
 which just seems ridiculous when everyone around him is speaking in convincing accents of the Middle 
 East. The story ends on an irritating cliff-hanger which leaves the story open for a sequel. 
 
  
  Assassins Creed is one of the best looking games to come to the current generation of consoles, 
 and shows massive amounts of detail that go a long way to making the world feel alive. Unfortunately 
 the game does not show as much detail in actual content and comes across as a game with a lot of 
 potential that didn't quite work out as planned. Although the game is around 15 hours long most 
 of this time is spent completing boring side missions.
  
  In the end a lack of content and challenge prevent Assassins Creed from being a must have game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradas101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  This is one assassins quest to kil the templars in the the time of the invasion of Jerusalem until 
 the main charector finally finds out that it is his master that is actually the person he needs 
 to kill. Assassins Creed is awesome with huge open worlds and amazing gameplay Assassins Creed 
 is definatley a must buy. The missions are just he right difficulty and you really want to complete 
 the game instead of of getting bored through the games. The scenery looks really realistic and 
 some of the combos you can perform on enemies are just outstanding. The way your charector moves 
 also is amazing you can blend with the crowd as not to draw not a lot of attention to yourself, 
 you can climb building and jump from roof to roof or you could just run into guards chop of their 
 heads and run like s**t.
  
  This game is definatley a must buy 
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumo915
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Assassins was one of the best games i have ever played with its fluent game controls and mind blowing 
 graphics. Every button corosponds to one of Altairs body parts. The visuals in this game are spectacular. 
 There are never in different ways to get information like pickpocketing but trust me you'll never 
 get tired of it. This game has a very intresting story its like a whirl pool that sucks you in. 
 You play as desmond the bartender who is mysteriously kinapped by Abstergo. They make you get into 
 this machine that makes you ravage through your ancestors memories. Abstergo is trieing to get 
 some kind of memorie from you which turns out to be where the ark is. As you progress in the game 
 you start to unravel the story and start to realize how important you really are. THIS GAME IS A 
 MUST BUY. Well thats my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  (Editor's note: some parts of this are an attempt to be funny and some things may wind up feeling 
 stronger than they should) 
  
  Pretty much everyone went into Assassin's Creed with extremely high expectations. The advertising 
 campaigns and the way the hype was handled was simply brilliant. I haven't seen a single person 
 who could honestly say there weren't looking forward to Assassin's Creed.
  
  Unfortunately, hype only helps sales. Assassin's Creed dazzles and it is a really fun game, but 
 in some cases the bad outweighs the good. 
  
  You put the disc in and one of the first things you see is a disclaimer that literally reads: "This 
 game was created by a multicultural team of various religious faiths and beliefs." What does this 
 tell me? Well, two things. One, is that Ubisoft doesn't have the balls to stand up for what they 
 made. When a company is lacking balls, other things tend to lack. Second, it's that Assassin's 
 Creed is going to insult someone. I'm a Christian and if somehow I was supposed to be insulted 
 by the Templars being evil... I didn't see it. Maybe it was the Muslims that were supposed to be 
 offended, but I didn't see anything hurtful at all! 
  
  (you may want to skip ahead, I'm not counting this as part of the score of the review. But I promise 
 it's interesting.)
  
  Shame on you for being without balls Ubisoft! Video games are an emerging art form and I don't 
 remember any artists ever putting disclaimers on their paintings. They were proud of their work 
 and didn't apologize for it. If video games are to be respected as art, then we'll have to start 
 acting like artists. Assassin's Creed had the potential to go into the books as a great game that 
 represented the finest artistic end of gaming, but it didn't and I honestly believe that their 
 disclaimer had something to do with it. Art is expressive and by putting that message, you're claiming 
 you aren't expressing anything. Way to shoot yourselves in the foot.
  
  Anyway, back to the review here. Speaking of art, Assassin's Creed is a very good looking game. 
 The lighting and shading excel. The cities and the world in general are huge! But it still looks 
 good, if not better, than more concentrated games. That is called technical achievement. There 
 are also few loading screens and they aren't very long or boring. There is actually interactivity 
 in AC's loading screens!
  
  Also the animations are something else. When Altair is climbing, he really seems to clasp the objects 
 he climbs on. The sword fighting looks great with lots of sweet animations and moves. 
  
  The sound is also great. There is an excellent score buried in there, but it's barely audible. 
 Sound balancing is definitely an issue. For some reason, I can barely hear the characters talking 
 and there is no subtitle option. The sound effects are spectacular, everything is just right. The 
 voice acting is good, but hard to hear.
  
  The gameplay is unique to say the least. The controls are brand new to gaming and are very intuitive. 
 Climbing up stuff and running around causing heck in Medieval Jerusalem is loads fun and very easy 
 to do. 
  
  So what do I really have to complain about Assassin's Creed? It really sounds like a perfect game 
 experience. This comes in the execution. 
  
  First, actually assassinating someone is about 2% of the game. The rest is spent in transit or 
 doing ludicrously ludicrous sidequests. Seriously, we should be out there killing people, which 
 Assassin's Creed does well, but instead... Here, I'll outline the mission structure:
  
  Step one: Do the ridiculous animus laboratory thing. (won't go into detail because it's a spoiler)
 
  Step two: Listen to the bearded old man babble.
  Step three: Leave your fortress at the top of a mountain.
  Step four: ride to the city of choice 
 on horseback (admittedly fun, but you don't have to do this and you have no obligation to do it)
 
  Step five: Go to the Assassin's Bureau in the city of choice.
  Step six: Listen to an idiot ramble.
  Step seven: Pickpocket bad guy #1
  Step eight: Sit on 
 a bench and listen to the ominous conversations of bad guys #2 and 3.
  Step 9: Beat the daylights out of bad guy #4 until he spills his guts.
  Step 10: Spill his guts
 
  Step 11: Do Assassin noob #1's job for him
  Step 12: Go back the bureau
  Step 13: Listen to an idiot ramble some more
  Step 14: Go to your target's house/boat/place of 
 existence
  Step 15: Sit there and stare at him while he takes forever doing something or another. 
  Step 
 16: Assassinate him.
  Step 17: Listen to him ramble.
  Step 18: Escape the guards and go back the bureau
  Step 19: Listen to an idiot ramble for a third 
 time
  Step 20: Return to your mountain fortress and repeat.
  
  Do you see what I mean? Assassin's Creed feels like a chore at times. The only purpose you have 
 is to assassinate the Templars, but you can't do that until you've done all of this. It feels like 
 those times where Dad tells you that you have to clean your room before you get a chocolate bar. 
 The chocolate bar takes you about thirty seconds to eat, but cleaning your room takes a few hours 
 at best. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is worth it. It's a sandbox game and there isn't much more fun than screwing around 
 in Assassin's Creed. In what other game can you assassinate random lepers in the street? Or how 
 about throw beggars into the shops? Punch drunkards? How about run around with an obvious arsenal 
 of weapons and a neon sign that reads "I'M AN ASSASSIN!!!!" and nobody suspect anything? 
  
  The graphics get a 10.
  The sound gets an 8.
  The gameplay gets a 9.
  The value gets 
 an 8.
  And my own tilt is a 7.
  Overall, I'd call it an 8.0 game, which is not an average. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingSpecter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the best games I have ever seen. This game is so amazing and almost 
 everything in it is real (in history) except for what u do in it. Before this game even came out 
 I new it waz going to be good. And when i played it I waz like "WOW, THIS GAME IS AMAZING!" The 
 game takes place during the Third Crusade which is real. The cities you get to go in are Jerusalem, 
 Acre, Damascus and Masyaf. And all of these cities are real. The Assassin's are real to. The only 
 thing that really isn't real is what u do in the game, the future parts and the ending. To me the 
 ending is kinda messed but to other people it might not be. Also what i mean by "real" is, they 
 are real in real life, its in history, and the locations u can go to in real life. So to me this 
 game is very historical. And is one of the reasons i got it. The reason I didn't give this game 
 a 10/10 like Halo 3 even though i like this game a little better is because this game is a little 
 repetitive. But I didn't really care. So I think this game is really really good and everyone should 
 at least play it for an hour on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasperflobo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Much has been said about Assassins Creed but let's make one thing clear: This game is so unbelievable 
 fun to play. 
  
  The graphics is stunning, sharp and crystal clear and the Xbox 360 delivers without a hitch. The 
 PlayStation 3 version though has cost me much frustration with constant chopping and freezing (even 
 after the latest system update) . 
  
  The three cities and the kingdom are detailed and massive in size and everything just seems so 
 natural. The game breaths via people filling the city streets, alleys and marketplaces, annoying 
 beggars at street corners and mentally sick men you have to avoid at all cost, if you don't want 
 your cover blown.
  
  The master assassin, Altair, is sent on 9 missions, each with the target of assassination. Within 
 these missions you will have to eavesdrop, pickpocket and interrogate to gather enough information 
 about your targets whereabouts. Getting all information is essential, if you will go for the stealth 
 assassination. If swordfight fun turns you on, you can just bash you way through.
  
  Altair carries different types of weapons; sword, throwing knives and the hidden blade. The last 
 gives you the real feel of being an assassin. These weapons combined with a wide range of moves 
  attack, counterattack, dodging and what not  will, with a little practice, make you superior 
 to all guards and templar knights.
  
  The game can be completed within 20  25 hours. After that you can spend the rest of you life collecting 
 flags in the three cities and the kingdom plus fighting all the templar knights. The Xbox 360 version 
 has a series of goals to accomplish to earn gamer points, with gives the game an advantage compared 
 to the PlayStation 3. 
  
  This is overall an impressive game, though I have one advice to the master assassins, Altair: Learn 
 to swim!
  
  Conclusion:
  What is the fun factor worth? It's priceless. This is a must play game. Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenkuchima
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Everywhere I go, all i here about this game is good things. I figured this must be one of the best 
 games ever made. Well I was wrong. This game could be perfect but several serious flaws ruin it. 
 The biggest one is the combat. When fighting an enemy you hit the X button to attack. But thats 
 it. No combos, no finishing moves, nothing. You hit the X button to swing your sword. Sometime 
 your opponent blocks, when this happens you hit the x button again. repeat this process untill 
 your enemy is dead. You can also grab your oponent, but then all you do is push them away. . 
 
  
  The second flaw is the whole blend system. Let me get this straight. Everyone can tell that I am 
 an assassin, except for when I bow my head and walk slowly, well that makes sense. Same thing while 
 on a horse, walk a little slower and no one knows that your an assassin. It's just stupid.
  
  Another problem is how repitive it is. It's basicaly the same mission nine times, only the 
 environments and people are shuffled around. You just evesdrop, pickpocket and interigate over 
 and over again. It does not make for a vary rich experience.
  
  The assassinations themselves are fun, but getting to them is not.
  The graphics are beautiful, 
 and the story is written incredibly well, but that can't make up for boring gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Unique story
  Amazing visuals
  Excellent presentation
  Lots of side missions and secrets
  Sandbox world
  
  THE BAD:
  Bizarre AI
  Awkward controls
 
  Boring combat
  Linear mission structure
  Too easy
  Future gameplay is a chore
  Sandbox elements are shallow
  
  Let's clear something up: Assassin's Creed is not about an 
 assassin in the Third Crusade. It's really about an assassin in the future that is reliving the 
 genetic memories of an ancestor in 1191 A. D. This is explained in the first two minutes of the 
 game, so I'm not spoiling anything.
  
  Although this pseudo-science fiction and historical combination is unique in the gaming world, 
 it also means that you're splitting your time between playing in the future and the past. Both 
 of which suffer because of this bi-polar gameplay.
  
  Although the story is well told, this shifting of gameplay is constantly interrupting it. It's 
 kind of like sitting down to eat at a restaurant, getting halfway through you're a tasty meal, 
 only to have the waitress take your meal away and replace it with something completely different. 
 Annoying is an understatement.
  
  Also kind of odd is one of the first screens you see when you start the game. It says that this 
 game is a work of fiction, and was created by a team of multi-cultural people with various religious 
 beliefs. This just comes off as an odd disclaimer so that Christian and Muslim extremists don't 
 get all pissy over being portrayed as the bloodthirsty, evil bastards they are.
  
  When you're not playing as Desmond Miles, a kidnapped bartender in the future, you're playing as 
 Altair, a Hashshashin that has been disgraced for not following the Assassin's Creed. To redeem 
 yourself, you must kill 9 leaders on both sides of the Crusade. The story is unqiue, and well told 
 despite being predictable. If you can't see the plot twist coming from a mile away, then you're 
 probably wearing your pants on your head.
  
  The biggest problem with Assassin's Creed is the two different styles of gameplay. The parts where 
 you're playing as Altair are great, and mostly fun. But the Desmond parts are boring and unnecessary. 
 These scenes could have easily been done with a cut scene that would have served the purpose better 
 than having me walk around a small room with a super computer after every assassination.
  
  The actual assassinations are a lot of fun, but getting to them will test your patience. Before 
 you can assassinate your target, you must first travel from your base at Masyaf, down a mountain 
 to the Kingdom over-world. From there you need to travel across several miles of landscape before 
 getting to the target city. Then you need to infiltrate the city, talk to the assassin leader, 
 gather information about the target, return to the assassin leader and get his permission before 
 actually assassinating your target. Doing this nine times over will drive some gamers to drink.
 
  
  Not only that, but the mission structure is very linear. The game was hyped as being open-ended, 
 and having a sandbox environment. To its credit, Assassin's Creed does have these elements, but 
 the bare minimum. You can't choose what order to do assassinations in, and the only "open-ended" 
 gameplay comes from when you aren't stabbing people in the neck. You can basically run around anywhere 
 you like.
  
  This is where the "sandbox" element comes in. While running around you can take on typical "save 
 the civilian from the evil guards" side missions. You can also randomly kill people and see how 
 the crowd around you reacts, but that's about it. If you kill a guard in the middle of a market 
 square, the crowd will scatter to the four corners of the earth. But unless another guard sees 
 you do it, no one really gives a hoot.
  
  Speaking of guards, when you're not stabbing people, they're way too eager to kill you. Despite 
 Altair's best effort to blend in and not be seen as an assassin, his openly worn weapons are apparently 
 a dead giveaway. Making his most useful weapon, the spring loaded hidden blade all the more ironic. 
 Even when you ride a horse slowly past a guard they're on to you. Yet if you hold down the A button 
 to "blend" you might as well be invisible.
  
  When you are discovered, you are thrown into battle with all the grace of one-winged dove trying 
 to fly. Instead of automatically drawing your weapon when the guards do, Altair will just stand 
 there until you tell him to enter combat by pressing the LT button, or selecting a weapon. This 
 inevitability leads to the guards getting the first hit in nearly every time.
  
  When Altair was demoted, he also conveniently forgot his years of combat training. It wont be until 
 a couple assassinations into the game that you get all your weapons and combat skills back. However, 
 the one you'll be using the most is the counter kill. This is done by holding RT to block, and 
 pressing the X button just as an enemy swings at you. BAM!! Instant kill. This reduces combat into 
 nothing more than chore. You can easily kill wave upon wave of enemies by doing this. And in the 
 unlikely event that you do take a hit, all you have to do is continue to hold block while your 
 health regenerates. I wont even mention combat on horseback, as it's so clunky you're better off 
 just dismounting to fight.
  
  Since this is just a genetic view of things that have already happened, you never actually die. 
 You just become "de-synched" at which point you revert back to your last auto save. And since auto 
 saves are more common than hookers in the ghetto, this is rarely a set back.
  
  The controls are awkward. By default, Altair moves around the world in "low profile" mode. That 
 is to say he walks. Hold the RT button, and he runs in "high profile" mode. You can also climb 
 buildings by holding the RT and A buttons while moving toward a wall from there you simply move 
 the analog stick in the direction you want to climb, and Altair will do his best to make that happen. 
 It's great to see him do this, and running along rooftops while the city guard is chasing after 
 you can be a lot of fun.
  
  The problem comes from jumping and hiding. If you run up to a ledge, Altair wont jump from it unless 
 you press the A button. Instead he'll just drop off the edge. This is a strange change of pace 
 from how intuitive the climbing is. This, combined with how easy it is to misjudge jumps and die 
 from falling, makes a fun element of the game needlessly frustrating.
  
  Also odd is how you evade enemies. If you're spotted and choose to run, you have several options. 
 You can run for it on street level, or try to lose them on the rooftops. First you must break the 
 line of sight, but that alone isn't enough. The guards will track you like bloodhounds, so you 
 must hide by doing things like sittings on a bench, hiding in a covered merchant tent or hay cart. 
 Although this makes sense, the relentless tracking can lead to some unusual moments.
  
  For example, I was riding my horse in the over-world Kingdom, when some guards eyed me for a good 
 killing. Having more important things to do, I just rode by them and went on my merry way. The 
 guards lost sight of me, but that didn't stop them! I was several miles away from where they spotted 
 me, yet somehow they caught up to me on foot and battle ensued.
  
  As far as presentation goes, Assassin's Creed does a very nice job. The menu interface, like it 
 or not, constantly reminds you that this is a simulation in the future with its hi-tech look. You'll 
 also see various graphical effects to give the game a more digital look to it.
  
  The graphics are top-notch, and some of the best on the 360. Characters and environments are both 
 very detailed. But perhaps best of all is the character animations. Altair is very fluid, and I 
 was especially impressed with how he moved in combat. It looked like a real sword fight. The counter 
 kills are especially brutal. The guards are also well animated, but the civilians aren't quite 
 as good. They tend to get stuck on objects, and when panicked will run back in forth in the same 
 spot.
  
  Sound-wise, you wont hear much in the way of music, but the ambient sound more than makes up for 
 this. You'll hear the wind blowing, birds chirping, and other environmental sounds. Best of all, 
 when you do things in the game world, NPC's will comment on it. I especially liked the comments 
 from on-lookers as I climbed buildings to the roof.
  
  The downside to the sound is the voice acting. It's not bad, but it just feels out of place. All 
 of the actors speak with a modern American accent. The game tries to downplay this by explaining 
 that the machine causing you to relive events of the past is translating the dialog into modern 
 dialect. It's just a sad excuse for not being able to have more authentic voice acting for the 
 period.
  
  There isn't a lot of lasting value to Assassin's Creed. If you can get past the interrupted and 
 repetitive gameplay, you'll find that Assassin's Creed has one of the best stories to tell in recent 
 memory. But considering there are no black and white choices to make that affect the outcome, and 
 that you can see and do everything in one play through, there's really no reason to play again.
 
  
  On the achievements side, you'll also find that there's still little replay value. Nearly all of 
 the achievements can be unlocked your first time through. The only exceptions are the "find all 
 the flags, and kill all the Templar" achievements. But even then, if you have a map of their locations 
 this too is easy to get the first time.
  
  Overall, I'd recommend Assassin's Creed for most people. I personally don't think it's worth a 
 purchase, but it's at least worth a rental. At least it's trying to do something different from 
 all the other action/platforming games out there. It doesn't succeed at providing a fulfilling 
 gameplay experience, but I feel that the story is worth it. My impression is that the developers 
 tried to do too many different things with the game, and just made them all mediocre. The phrase 
 "jack of all trades, master of none" would apply to Assassin's Creed. This is supposed to be the 
 first game in a planned series, so lets hope that the developers can nail down what they want the 
 game to be like before the next installment comes out.
  
  STORY  8.0
  PRESENTATION  9.0
  GAMEPLAY  6.5
  GRAPHICS  9.5
  SOUND  8.0
  VALUE  7.5
  
  OVERALL 
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapsrocks
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a week or two after it came out , after reading the Gamespot score. Let me say 
 this, now this might be one of the most beautiful games next to Oblivion I've played. That being 
 said, this game is not amazing or groundbreaking when it comes to game play. Read the Gamespot 
 review for all the info on in game material. The reason I wrote this was to warn gamers, RENT THIS 
 GAME. My goodness it's the same thing over and over and the reward for obeying and finishing tasks 
 isn't enough to make you feel like the time you wasted was fun. If you don't play many video games, 
 you might like it.
  
  The side missions in this game may add a few hours of gameplay but it's like a teacher who makes 
 you copy the dictionary; it's pointless busy work and ends with you just being annoyed and bored. 
 
  
  The only reason I believe this game got the rankings it did was because the game does look amazing. 
 The environment you are put in looks, sounds, and reacts perfectly. Unlike in Oblivion where exploring 
 is fun, Assassin's Creed rewards your curiosity by not having anything on the map besides Templars 
 and 1000000000 items (that add nothing to the game) to collect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1994_soldier
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  All i can say about this game is that its "perfect" its a "masterpiece" its the best game i have 
 ever played in my life it has all the swiftness the boldness and courage of the assassins his moves 
 are agile and fast he is what we can call a human eagle i give it 10 OUT OF 10 the weapons and 
 combos are amazing in this game the the climbing and the leap of death adds more and more fun to 
 the game story is really nice and challenging the fights are filled with action and exitment it 
 is the perfect action adventure game the are no gaps in it exept for that there is no on line play 
 but of course due to the story there cannot be any on line play the combos and the cities are really 
 creative the gameply is amazing the surroundings of the game make u feel like u are really in there 
 the games is really nice full of creativity and power it can actually make u believe the story 
 is true
  
 
   
 FOR  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  When you first play assassins creed you will think wow this is amazing, well it basicly is, but 
 only one problem, the objectives and missions get so repetitive, all you end up is doing is protecting 
 citizens, eavesdropping, and doing that eagle jump thing.
  
  But don't let that stop you playing it, its still worth to buy, the best thing about the game is 
 the graphics, all the towers, buildings and people are so highly detailed makes it seem so real, 
 another good thing is definitly the sword fighting as it sort of has a strategy feel to it.
  
  10/10 graphics.
  9/10 game play
  7/10 story mode and objectives.
  
  Even though it 
 has some flaws its still worth to buy.
  
  They got the history spot on.
  
  The story isn't so believable with that animus machiene, but is still entertaining. 
  
  So 
 pick up your copy when ever you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durge666
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first gazed upon the beautiful towers and peaceful canals of Damascus from atop a decorated 
 spire in the rich district, I think I said something along the lines of "HOLY F***ING **** OH MY 
 FREAKIN GOD!! DAMN THOSE ARE SOME NICE GRAPHICS!! I wanna kill some ****." Assassin's Creed is 
 one of those games that is just so brilliantly designed and engineered that it sets a new standard 
 for all games. The cities are just so well done that you will buy the game just to explore the 
 cities. The cities are nearly exact reconstructions of Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem from 1191 
 A. D. They used the city's blueprints to reconstruct the layout and the rendered textures look as 
 real as reality. Overall, Assassin's Creed is an amazing game and I recommend it to anyone interested 
 in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyBones3487
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have game for the next generation gaming society. It encompasses everything that 
 a gamer comes to expect from a higher platform game system. Everything from very detailed environments, 
 to a story line that draws you into the television. 
  The detail involved with the environment is very impressive. A great deal of research was taken 
 into account to help depict the settings and it was set up in a way that everything seen in the 
 game is fair to challenge. You truly can go almost everywhere within this game.
  As for the story line, the story takes place during the times of the 3rd Crusade and it's very 
 evident from the dialogue throughout the game. It's as Lucy said, the only way it could've been 
 more authentic would be to have it in arabic.
  Though, the ending is a bit confusing (hopefully leading to a sequel) and there could've been a 
 little more interactivity outside of the animus. Overall I recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelersrule56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very enjoyable and addictive game. There are some minor problems though. 
 First, the story is a little short and the ending is kind of confusing (though, it basically leads 
 up to a sequel) . They also don't have online play. And another problem is when you beat the game, 
 you have to rewatch the movie on the memory you selected. And I say memory because you're a guy 
 named Desmond Miles who was apparently captured by a company and put on a machine called the Animus 
 and relives memories of his ancestor during the Crusades named Altair. Now, let's talk about some 
 of the features in the game. There are 4 different things you can use to fight and kill. There's 
 th hidden blade which is a blade hidden from sight near your wrist. You use this to assassinate. 
 This is the best weapon for low profile which is basically doing things without getting caught. 
 There's the sword which is probably the best weapon for open conflict and high-profile which is 
 the opposite of low profile. Then there's your fists which you use in fights and interrogations. 
 And finally, there's the short blade and throwing knives (you lose them at first but you get them 
 back after you kill your first target) . The short blade is basically a shorter version of the sword 
 and is high-profile. And the throwing knives are basically knives you can throw at locked on targets 
 ONLY (you'll just throw them at some random place if you're not locked on to your target) . You 
 get more knives as you get further in the game. And if you run out of throwing knives, you can 
 pickpocket thugs and citizens that have them. But don't get caught because if you do, you'll get 
 into a fight with the person and you only get one knife. But if you pickpocket them without getting 
 caught, you get 5. I personally like to use throwing knives on running soldiers and to pick soldiers 
 off from the rooftops. How did I get on the rooftops you say? Well in this game, you're part assassin, 
 part killer, climbing monkey (you're not actually a monkey in case you're stupid) . Climbing is 
 good for escaping guards and for getting on top of rooftops. And, climbing helps you get on top 
 of towers to syncronize areas and perform leaps of faith. Synchronizing areas is basically getting 
 on a tall tower and examining the area around you which will update your map and show you important 
 people and events in the area. And a leap of faith is jumping off the place where you synchronized 
 into a haystack. Also, in cities only, you can save citizens who are being harassed by guards (you 
 have to fight them of course in high profile unless you use throwing knives on the rooftops) . Once 
 you save them you'll either get scholars which are basically moving hiding spots or you'll get 
 vigilantes which will help you against guards. By synchronizing areas and saving citizens, your 
 sync bar will be updated and will improve your sync (your health) . Also in cities there are many 
 events you can do for the story. There's Interrogation where you listen to a guy speak in public 
 then when he's done, you beat him until he talks to you. After he talks, he's killed. There are 
 also Informers who will give you secret knowledge if you do something for them. You either have 
 to assassinate certain targets in low profile or collect some flags. Then there's Pickpocket where 
 you listen to some people speak then when one guy leaves to deliver something (it's a letter everytime 
 I think) you pickpocket it from him. And, finally, there's Eavesdropping where you basically eavesdrop 
 some people talking. You need to do all of this in order to be able to assassinate your target. 
 After you kill your target (you can kill them in either high or low profile) you have to get the 
 guards off your tail by hiding then go and see the Bureau Leader in the city. Eventually, you'll 
 kill all the targets you need to kill and you'll finish the game. And, if you have a sick mind 
 and you like to kill innocents, you can now kill away without losing health (during the story, 
 you lose a lot of health if you kill innocents) . Now, here comes the annoying part of having to 
 replay a memory and watch a movie you've already seen. Though, hopefully it will be changed sometime. 
 And, once you beat the game, there are flags all over the cities and the Kingdom. All the flags 
 are different from one another. And there are Templars you can kill in all three cities and the 
 Kingdom. There's 60 in total and they're the hardest of anybody to kill (except for assasination 
 targets) . To sum things up, this is an exciting and fairly easy game with many great features that 
 will have you addicted to it the minute you start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doglipstik
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the best game to come out for the 360 so far it's graphics make you feel more 
 like you are there, the AI are the back bone of the game, you climb up a building they throw things 
 to get you down, you are jumping across roofs they find a way up. The only escape is to blend in 
 with your surroundings and the local people. But if you are found and you must fight you have throwing 
 knives for long distance, a dagger used for mainly counter attacks but is usefull in combat and 
 the trusty sword. The countering system has never been this precise before, there are multiple 
 ways to defeat the enemy you could be playing the game for month's and then one day find a counter 
 you have never seen before. You don't have to use your weapons, there are scaffolding and market 
 stands that you can jump, swing or throw your opponents into. The game is set in the days of assassins 
 you have 9 main assassinations to complete, after everyone you gain new abilities and upgraded 
 weaponry. You don't have to complete them one after the other there are many things to do, find 
 and go so you will have many hours spent playing the game. Overall this is a great game and if 
 you haven't played then I recommend you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about you but along with millions of people i was really hyped about Assassin's Creed. 
 People started threads about it, made unions about it and blogged continuosly on it, that's hype 
 and they were right to be hyped about it! It's simply a masterpiece one of the most innovative 
 games of 2007 and one of the best overall. Too be honest it was so hyped that even the smallest 
 flaw could have broke everyone's excitement and there were some flaws wich let the game down, and 
 suddenly once everyone had got it they never mentioned it again, that was a disapointment. But 
 still undeniably this game still kicks ass and deserved to be hyped while it lasted.
  
  The primary element about Assassin's Creed that no-one can deny is the graphics, they are beautiful, 
 new and just plain awsome. The shine off Altair's blades, the rough looking texture to the houses 
 of the citazens makes it look so real and living that you wish to just climb that building that 
 Altair has climbed. The facial visuals are great and body actions aren't programmed to move at 
 the wrong times, everyone moves so smoothly and with ease, no jittery movements all the footsteps 
 seem to flow together and Altair's movements especially are great. However eveeyone else's facial 
 graphics are great and suit the time period and place, Altair's on the other hand look to modern 
 and American, no offence to Americans none at all but no-one else their looks so modern and diferent 
 as Altair does, his clean shave chin, smooth untouched skin and short hair, it's not really a big 
 issue but it's a flaw.
  
  Down to the gameply, quite simply it's awsome. The moves and stunts you can preform are really 
 really cool and interesting, they are very various and never fail to impress i love showing my 
 friends Altair's counter attacks they are always impressed by them. Climbing is an innovative, 
 interesting aspect to the game where you can climb just about everything! Walls with cracks in 
 them, building with tiny rocks jutting out of them are easily climable even merchant stalls. Sure 
 the controls for climbing sometimes can be awkward sometimes but it's not really that big and easily 
 sortable. Climbing is also a great way to escape pursuing guards, as some thing you can climb they 
 can't, but be quick about it they will throw stones at you to coax you down.
  
  The story is pretty awsome too. It starts off as an ex-assassin, who's ancestor just happens to 
 be an assassin too, Alltair for that matter. He's beenkidnapped" by a company who home a machiene 
 called the atimus ( i can't spell it) this piece of equiptment can see into the hosts memory or 
 his ancestors and gather valuble information. You play as two people the futuristic assassin and 
 the old one, you'll be playing as Altair nearly all the time and sessions with the futuristic assassin 
 will be quite boring and very short. At the start this futuristic element of the game seems pretty 
 pointless and a drag but get further into the game and you'll start to see the point in it and 
 may find it fun. Mainly this futuristic stuff is just there because of the ending wich is confusing 
 and a lot of people will find it annoying as it explains absoutely nothing you simply CAN'T understand 
 the ending you really can't but i like it to be honest, it's a cliffhanger and is definately a 
 lead onto a sequel that i can't wait to see!
  
  Summary:-
  
  Good Points:
  Gameplay is very fun and innovative.
  Graphics are great
  Story is immersive
  Voices and 
 characters are well played
  Climbing is great fun
  Fighting system is awsome
  Achievments are well thought out
  
  Bad points:
  Gameplay is very repetitive
  Investigations 
 are also very repetitive
  Some people may hate the ending
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is a game anyone can pick up and enjoy is really worth a try, it's a very 
 hard game to dislike and just about everyone will love to play and play to the end they will! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  You play the role of Altair, an assassin of the brotherhood of the Hashashin during the 12th century 
 crusades. This cult is secretly responsible for trying to bring down the crusades by assassinating 
 the army's lieutenants and bringing down the Templars themselves. But along the way you fail to 
 recover an artifact that both the Hashashin and the Templars both seek and now you must gain back 
 the brotherhoods respect and eliminate the 9 warlords of the crusades. 
  
  So what sets Assassin's Creed from the rest of 3rd person action games is the way in which you 
 play. Assassinations are split up into 2 parts, recon and assassination. The missions all follow 
 the same structure in that you must first visit the assassin bureau within the city to receive 
 your mission then you must perform tasks like eavesdropping, interrogating, pick pocketing and 
 so forth. Once you've collected enough information (you don't have to complete all tasks) you visit 
 the bureau again so you can finally have your chance to approach your target and assassinate him. 
 As cool as this is in the first few hours of the game the missions tend to become repetitive and 
 predictable later on. The only real challenge is how to approach your target and how to escape 
 from the city guards.
  
  One really good aspect of how this game plays is the actions Altair can perform throughout the 
 sandbox environments he's in. Just like the developers said anything that sticks out 2 inches from 
 the environment can be climbable. Altair can climb to great heights within the city and the way 
 he shifts his body weight around when he climbs to certain angles of a wall is pretty cool. You 
 can practically do almost anything in this game that is believable. Fighting for instance is simple 
 and overtime when you learn better moves you'll become much more efficient at killing. There are 
 2 sorts of moves you can perform, socially acceptable moves like gently pushing people aside or 
 blending in as a monk and unacceptable moves. By holding down the right trigger and pressing different 
 face buttons you can sprint faster, grab and throw people around and counter the guards attacks 
 to perform fast kills or knockdowns. It really is up to you whether you want to attract unwanted 
 attention from the guards but that's where the fun in the game lies with the combat and the chasing 
 through the streets.
  
  Visually Assassin's Creed would have to be one of the 360' s prettiest with detail put into every 
 part of the game. Character models look good and vary in appearances with clothes or hair styles. 
 The draw distance is amazing especially if you reach a really high point and pan the camera around. 
 Pulling off successful counter attacks will have you see Altair really lay into the guard with 
 a gruesome and visually impressive kills. Seeing how Altair shifts his body to climb or how he 
 stumbles when he's been thrown to the ground all looks great.
  
  The game also has some great sound to it with chatter from townsfolk in the background and the 
 different accents and languages used in different cities. In Acre for example the guards have English, 
 Scottish or even French accents which might seem a bit odd that it's all in one city but the accents 
 are pulled off nicely anyway. Then there's the peoples reactions to you and what they say if they 
 saw you sprinting past or climbing a wall. The dialogue can become repetitive however and character 
 like beggars can be really annoying to listen to after awhile even though they are suppose to be 
 annoying. Even Altair's voice seems to stand out from the rest especially since the brotherhood 
 are Arabic and his accent is not.
  
  Assassin's Creed is one of 2007's standout games for the 360. Although the campaign can be over 
 in 10 hours or less and no multiplayer at all there is still tonnes to collect in the game and 
 achievement points to get as well as a fun way to to traverse the city streets that could have 
 you coming back after the credits finish. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  THE FACTS:
  
  # Now you would think that it would be set in the past right wrong its about some loser in the 
 future re living the events of the past why? you have no know idea the story is just confusing 
 you have no idea whats giong on.
  
  #The combat sucks a big fat cocksicle speed killing people with parrys and watching the person 
 you control do alot just sucks.
  
  # The hitman missions where you have to kill some are great fun. But guess what it takes about 
 12 million years to get to those moments and i will explain why. 
  
  1st. You have to start on top of a mountian at the start on every dam mission.
  2nd. You have 
 to climb on top building to find find where your next location is.
  3rd. You have to do these retared missions like pickpocket someone and sit on a bench scracthing 
 you arse for 40 seconds and its the same missions over and over agian.
  and finally 4th when you at last play hitman and kill someone you get a long boring uninteresting 
 unskipable cut scence with the victim and all this happens all over again everytime.
  
  CONCLUSION: 
  
  At its heart its a good game BUT its just too boring for too long and repitive
 
  How can you throw perfect scores at a game that truly has big problem. Do you player reviewers 
 have any standards? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOG-Iron
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  A game full of action, great acting, and amazing game play, Assassin's Creed is definitely at least 
 a 9 out of 10. You role play the Saracen assassin Altair, an ancestor of Desmond Miles, a young 
 bartender who is forced to use a machine called the Animus in 2012. As you make your way through 
 Acre, Jerusalem, Damascus, and Masyaf. Whether it be from eavesdropping, pickpocketing, doing a 
 side mission, or interrogating someone, your mission is the same thing, kill the target and report 
 back to Robert IV De Sabl.
  Climbing on walls, killing guards, and assassinating Templar leaders is all part of the game. You 
 must use the Viewpoints to your advantage in order to find out where your next contact is located. 
 Make your way through The Kingdom collecting flags, killing Templar's, or pickpocketing thugs, 
 but any way you do it is guaranteed to give you something else.
  
  As you kill each leader, you'll realise you have to kill the next one before it's off for the night. 
 After you make an assassination, something new will be available, something to make your next Templar 
 die even quicker. If you like the idea of all this, go to your nearest Game Stop or Best Buy, and 
 pick up a copy of Assassin's Creed.
  
  This review was created in the courtesy of Spec Ops Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthJavelin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed puts you in a very large world and is very accurate to its history. All of the 
 cities and most of the characters are acctually real compared to some games that make up their 
 storyline without looking up their history. Their are only a few things that i didnt like which 
 were the side story where you are in the future but that does allow a very large and interesting 
 storyline and the extremely hard enemies later in the game that the only way to kill is to counter, counter, counter. 
 Assassins creed sticks to the assassin part of its name allowing you to kill peole silently and 
 in many different ways. Also very annoying are the guards that easily find out that you are an 
 assassin, you could sit on a bench petting a cat and they would still scream ASSASSIN! All and 
 all assassins creed is a very fun immersive and addicting action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobble_head17
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a seemless experience in which every individual element works in harmony with 
 the others. But the foundation of the entire gameplay expierience lies in fluid and intutive control 
 scheme. From walking around on the streets to free runnin on the roof tops, the controls make it 
 easy to munipuate Altair during his quests. The game would have suffered had the developers glossed 
 over the control scheme. the games story is also a strong point and while i wont ruin any of the 
 surprises. =) I will say that assassins creed does a great job of weaving a deep and enjoyable 
 narrative.
  
  The size of the game world is also immence but thankfully it rarly feels overwhelming. After completing 
 the tutorial lvl , whick will take quite some time because theres some much talking and stuff, 
 you are given a horse and is set out to the kingdom, this area connects with the other three main 
 cities which is where you do your assinating.
  
  Its hard to put the sheer size of assassins creed in words. Its an epic that you have to expierece 
 for yourself. I will caution that the game is not for the impatient or faint of heart. If you play 
 assassins creed all you will be left with is pretty good memories.
  
  
  pros: Life like A. I ,fluid play mechanics, and a compelling narrative come together to form an outstanding 
 game expierience
  
  cons: The gigantic environment can e overwheming, various fighting mechanics takes time to master 
 and also it feels like your doing the same thing 12 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyo4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is probably one of the most historically correct and realistic games on the market. 
 of course with the whole assassins bereu and all that stuff being made up. it is a long, relatively 
 hard and fun game to play. you can use the environment around you in such ways as climbing 50 foot 
 buildings, jump through roadside stalls and ride on horses. Unfortunetley there isn't a very big 
 arsenal for the weapons side of things but that is made up for the very humorous and rewarding 
 ways of killing the town guards and watching one fall while 12 others run after you. also on the 
 bad side the game can get quite frustrating at times. this happens when you are climbing walls 
 for example, you might run away from a group of guards and jump to a building only to find yourself 
 flung back into the fray because you accidently pushed down the button to hard. Overall the game 
 is fun and the immense amount of gamerscore is rewarding so, enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAK1294
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  So it is a good historic game. Also you dont have to do the missions! you just annoy guards or 
 assassinate other people. and if your stuck on a level you can just hop on a horse and ride to 
 another city or go to the small remote towns in between the cities. and there are many different 
 levels in each city. the story at the begining is your a rank assasin, then you fail you mission 
 and one of you own is killed. Because of this the person you failed to assassinate attacks your 
 village but win, since it is your fault you are striped from all your rankings. To get to the top 
 again you have to complete all missions and assassinate all people ( it depends if the missions 
 are optional or not) . So if you where looking for a good challenging game i would recommend it, 
 If you like quick easy games i wouldnt recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Volta
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Let me make one thing clear: the cityscapes in this game are pretty much worth the rent itself, 
 and partially the reason my score is above the 5-territory. The city-visuals, when up on a building 
 somewhere or looking out over a viewpoint, are quite pretty, and will hold your fascination much 
 longer than the actual game mechanics will. Also, while the cities are pretty, and the NPCs aren't 
 awful per se; the other character models aren't anything to write home about, and the combat effects 
 aren't anything special either. 
  
  The story isn't bad, but it's likely not enough incentive to keep one playing through the monotonous 
 informative quests, which I'll get too. Most of the story centers on playing through memories taking 
 place in a futuristic machine for purposes not quite revealed until later. The premise is nice, 
 but the silly ending might throw some people off, and the entire prospect of this game becoming 
 a franchise or series is kind of disconcerting, unless they change a great many things about it...
 
  
  The biggest flaws this game has are: the combat, and, well, the gameplay -- in a sense -- what you 
 are actually doing in the game. Repetition.
  
  The combat is difficult to get when you first pick up the game, as it is overly simplistic and 
 not exactly visceral in any way... later is becomes so easy it's not even fun; so, in this way, 
 the combat -- to me at any rate -- was a device that you will use too often and utilize in a very similar 
 matter throughout the game. It is nothing special, and helps to add to the monotonous feeling the 
 game has on an overall level.
  
  But the biggest flaw is, without a doubt, the actual doings of the game. You'll spend hours -- if 
 you put up with it -- running around similar (though pretty) cities, saving citizens for no gain, 
 interrogating silly idiots, fighting guards, walking into flag "collectibles", finding viewpoints, 
 jumping into hay-barrels, and that's really about it. And you'll do it for the entire 15-25 hour 
 duration of the game. Every once and a while, you'll do an assassination mission -- which involves 
 you going into a building, killing a few people, then chasing someone around a city, getting close 
 to him, and tapping X to assassinate him. Fun, fun, fun.
  
  So, overall, Assassin's Creed is a big disappointment in my book. The cities are nice, visually, 
 and the climbing/acrobatic animations/mechanic works very well, and the game is quite amusing -- for 
 a short time. Then everything bad about it reveals itself. There is little to no development, and 
 the story yields no rewards, vying instead for the "set-up-for-a-sequel" route. The repetitive 
 gameplay and the overlong story and the completely unbalanced combat all come together to give 
 this game a really "fuzzy", half-finished feel.
  
  Mediocre. Perhaps worth a rent, but I shouldn't have bought it, as I'll likely never play it again.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightvamp5
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creede is one of the most visually impressive and high charged games of the year, for 
 about the first two hours. There few ways someone could kill (pun intended) the overall coolness 
 of being a hardened assassin in the dark ages, killing his prey without mercy or regret. Yet, Ubisoft 
 managed to do it in a few hours.
  
  In Assassin's Creede you play an Assassin during the Dark Ages, who after demonstrating he has 
 no regard for the creede his guild operates under, must perform various mission to regain his status 
 and honor by learning the value of this creede.
  
  In your mission you will do everything from pickpocket, to spy, to interrogate people to gain the 
 information needed to complete your task. Sounds great right? Not really. This is the part of the 
 game which fails more than any other. After the first few information gathering missions, you realize 
 they are all really the same. Much like the assassinations you will be completing throughout the 
 game as well.
  
  Two hours into the game, you've already experienced everything the game has to offer, and it is 
 not much. The only thing they seemed to get right was the climbing system and the combat. You'll 
 find yourself purposefully starting fights and not bothering with stealth anymore b/c the combat 
 is far more interesting than the poorly constructed stealth mechanic. However, these are both overly 
 simplified to the point where a monkey infected with a brain eating virus could beat this game 
 with ease. In all honesty, I think they spent more time programming the game to fight for your 
 than with the games AI. I could murder half the town, guards, civilians, shop owners... and still 
 everyone would get confused as who I was when I marched next to those scholars who aren't wearing 
 a plethora of weapons on them. Not to mention they are always in the same place, just like everyone 
 in this game. No free form wandering. Everything is stationary. Yeah, they'll take two steps, but 
 are always in the same general area. The guards figuring out who you are seems completely random. 
 Nothing to tip them off other than there is a guy there with a sword, which would cause them to 
 kill many other people on the street if this was there only motivation, but when I give them real 
 reason, half the time they just sit and stare.
  
  The one thing I have to give them is Assassin's Creede is a fun game to watch. It is a very attractive 
 game and combat, although oversimplified and easy, is entertaining to watch.
  
  Overall, this game was bad. I finished it b/c my wife said it was good and I kept hoping it would 
 get better. I guess this is just one of those games we disagree on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game has been extremely overhyped! I thogught that this would be a great game due to all the 
 high rating that it has been receiving but I found that out otherwise yesterday when I finally 
 played it.
  
  The graphics on the game are amazing and well developed and instituted and is the only thing that 
 makes me rate the game as high as I am doing. 
  
  To start out the game is great but as you play along you realize it is the same thing over and 
 over and over again 9 times! You ride a horse to a far off land, do 2 investigation missions and 
 then assiassinate a person and then come back and do it over again 9 times! 
  
  Thje first mission is alright as you get to learn what the game is about, but it is not fun enough 
 to have to repeat it over again through 9 assasinations. 
  
  The pickpocketing missions are damn near impossible as people run away or catch you and then you 
 hav e to fight over and over again. Definately got very boring and repetitive.
  
  I would suggest this to be a borrow it or rental game as the repetitive missions are not worth 
 it to have to do so many times over. The graphics are the only thing that keep this in the mix 
 of great games as it is very well developed, but having to do the same thing over again will get 
 very boring and people will wonder why they paid full price of $60 for the same crap!
  
  If you can borrow this from a friend I would suggest that. If you like it... thats fine, but when 
 you start playing its just the same thing one after another. The game should have more diverse 
 options and gameplay with different styled missions, oh well.
  
  Also the control scheme is annoying as well, they try to pack nearly 20 different actions into 
 the few buttons on the controller (high and low profile moves) . It can be hard to adjust to the 
 gameplay but when you do, you should do well.
  
  The repetitive gameplay makes this game a BOMB, but the graphics pull up the score to an even 5.0, 
 certainly not worth anymore than that. Avoid purchasing this game at all costs, unless you want 
 to play the same mission over and over until you beat it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgtZipper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  I don't consider myself a "hardcore gamer" and most games bore the hell out of me after 2 hours 
 of playing. Though I always buy games and they end up collecting dust. So I borrowed this game 
 from my nephew and gueass what? This game is actually the FIRST game in like maybe... 6 years I've 
 played all the way through and that in a week or so. That has to say something right?
  
  I bought myself an xbox 360 the other day and borrowed the game from my nephew. I didn't have any 
 experience with next-gen gaming, so it amazed me... the graphics... man, I've been living under 
 a rock! The first hours of playing kept me drooling, maybe I kept drooling all the way through, 
 my mouth got a little dry.
  
  So the graphics are good, why? The people live! I'm telling you, the characters look most realistic, 
 together with the briliant voice-acting and sound design it's a piece of art that should never 
 be forgotten.
  
  The level design is also really good, you can climb buildings and 'free run' over the roofs. It 
 takes a while to get used to it though.
  
  And then there is the story, which is good, not extraordinary. The plot was a bit disappointing, 
 but it was ok and left an opening for a sequel or 2, maybe even 6.
  
  The action in the game is also very good and bloody. It's also pretty realistic.
  
  The game 
 reminded me of Prince of Persia, I don't know but maybe this is the "new" Prince of Persia? Considering 
 both games are made by Ubisoft.
  
  Ok, but now the not-so-good parts of the game. The whole sandbox experience is cool in the beginning, 
 but when you've ran up some buildings and killed some guards the fun is getting less and less. 
 The rest of the game is also pretty linear, so there isn't a lot to do in the city (except killing 
 those guards) .
  
  The difficulty is not that difficult. If you use the "hidden blade" you can kill your opponents 
 in a split second (even the bosses) . But even though, it's not frustating, so I guess it would 
 be "just right".
  
  Also you can't really play it with friend. You can hand over the controller and watch your friend 
 killing some guards etc. but I've tried and after 20 minutes we were both like: "boring!"
  
  Although the graphics are great and the game is a great experience, I wouldn't recommend buying 
 it... at least not for 62 euros. Why not? I think console games are way overpriced and this game 
 doesn't have multiplayer, cop or anything like that, so when it's done it's done and the game 
 is going to collect dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  First Off : This game looks brilliant. Its just that no other part of it is! Its a shame the gameplay 
 is boring and repetive. There is nothing new here to keep the gamer hooked. The fighting is nothing 
 more than button mashing and the 'quests' are irritating and repettive too. Pick pocket, save citizen, 
 collect flag, colect flag in timed event.... its all so contrived and really crap to tell you the 
 truth
  
  If you are interested in shiny graphics and nothing more, then this is the game for you but even 
 the cities look alike aswell, there are not really any distinguishable landmarks to really take 
 your breath away. 
  
  If you want substance and challenge and intriguing gameplay then do not buy this game, you will 
 be disappointed. This is unfortunate as I was looking so much to playing this game and I really 
 'tried' to have fun. I just wish the developers would give 'us' the gamer more credit. It takes 
 more than beautiful graphics to make a truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerv78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  This game is so visually stunning that I find myself just looking around; and the game isn't too 
 bad either. This should be the standard for what all games should look like. The amount of detail 
 and texture that the developers put into this game is amazing; down to the cracks in the walls 
 and the floor; stone actually looking like stone; the wrinkles in your players cloak; everything. 
 Unreal; especially when played in HD. 
  I can go on and on about the beautiful graphics but I don't really think that is what most people 
 care about when playing games; it's the actual game itself; playability, fun factor and whatnot. 
 If people really cared about graphics then the millions who bought the Wii would have gotten the 
 360 instead. I found this game extremely fun, however, it did get repetitive very quickly. The 
 controls handle beautifully, but sometimes, when hold the sprint button down, you would start jumping 
 off walls when you really did not want to. You are an assassin charged with killing 9 people but 
 in order to kill those nine people you have to scale anywhere from 8-12 buildings, pick pockets, 
 eaves drop or interrogate people for each one that you assassinate in order to get information 
 about your intended target. That is the repetitive part, but the fact that the game looks so darn 
 good and you can break the monotony by killing some guards or saving citizens from the guards that 
 the time seems to fly by.
  I am not sure if I will go back and replay this game over and over but I definitely enjoyed playing 
 it. If you are a fan of the Prince of Persia games then you will enjoy this one; it is very similar 
 the way you scale walls and things like that. Good job Ubisoft. Kudos.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has you play as Altair, a legendary assassin in the year 1191 A. D. That is all 
 I will say about the story so that I don't accidently spoil it for you. It is something you need 
 to experience for yourselves.
  
  Altair has a few different weapons. They are a long sword, a short sword, throwing knives, fists, 
 and the assassin's blade. Altair has amazing acrobatical abilities. He can climb, and leap over 
 almost anything. Although, there is the occasional "WTF, I should be able to climb this." object. 
 Also, the acrobat noves are also sometimes hard to use. 
  
  This leads us to the mission structure, which is the gameplays biggest fault. It is just too repetitive. 
 You ride to the city, climb a few view points, then do at least 3 out of 5 missions, then assasinate 
 the target. The missions are either eaves droppings, interogations, informer assations or flag 
 collecting, and pick poketings. Repeating these same few mission types over and over isn't very 
 fun and gets annoying after a while. Then there are also side quests like rescuing citizens, and 
 collecting flags. Rescuing citizens helps you build up your health meter. But collecting the hundreds 
 of flags scattered throughout the world seems like it was only added for achievements and have 
 no effect on the story.
  
  The sound in the game is good. There is some good music. The voice acting is the best part of the 
 games sound. The people in the world sound like they are really from those parts of the world, 
 (Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus, and Masyaf,) except Altair himself. Which is kind of lazily explained 
 in the story. 
  
  That is the review. i reccomend that you rent Assassin's Creed first to see if you like it, or 
 buy it used.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value:6
  Tilt:8
  
  True Score: 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamin261
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  The game sets you as a protagonist that is subject in an experiment that involves the theory that 
 genes and DNA have memories that you can harness with the aid of expensive and high tech looking 
 machinery. To cut a long story short, you can go back in this machine to the year 1191AD as an 
 assassin during the Crusades.
  What bowled be over was the sheer amount of detail and the size of the kingdom. There are 4 cities: 
 Masyaf ( the assassins Hq) , Damacus (The arabian centre) Acre (the caucasian centre) and Jeruselem ( 
 which was a melting pot of cultures) all of which have there own feel and atmosphere which is great 
 because your experiencing a freshness in each city.
  I thought the ability to climb most walls and buildings was fantastic makes the getaway scenes 
 unique in the game world.
  A downer on this game is that after the first 1 or 2 kills, the game seems repetative because all 
 you do is investigate a person via using methods that you've used many times before in the game 
 and killing the target.
  The nine people you have to kill in the game are all the same difficultly andgets boring after 
 a while. The graphics amkeup for this somewhat because it coastantly amazes you and the feeling 
 of realism is fantastic.
  Overall: The graphics are the best i've ever seen in a game of this grandeur, the characters are 
 deep and interesting and the AI like crowds are really good. The downside is that the mission structures 
 are identical and repetitive and you can't really replay the game properly because you can't save 
 the progress in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a unique type of game that is so fun and well created that you will remember 
 it from years to come. Easily one of the greatest looking games, Assassin's Creed's character and 
 city (particularly) designs are immense, realistic and beautiful. And with the colorfully told 
 story, this is a game not to be overlooked.
  
  The story revolves around the character Altair, an extraordinarily talented assassin in the time 
 of the crusades in the Holy Land. But the plot actually is unfolded with another character, named 
 Desmond. You find out that through a machine a group of weird and secretive scientists have discovered 
 a way to discover the memories of your ancestors, something that is written in a genetic code of 
 our DNA. Desmond is chosen solely for the fact his ancestor Altair knows the whereabouts of a Templar 
 treasure.
  
  Altair is given the task of assassinating nine important leaders, that without giving too much 
 away are somehow connected. You proceed to find these targets in three absolutely incredible designed 
 cities, Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem. Each city has their own unique design elements. The cities 
 are also filled to the brim with people, thousands of them. There are scholars, thugs, guards, 
 drunks, and people that just want to go their way. They really add life to the cities and give 
 ti atmosphere. Almost every wall can be scaled in this game, and even though they weren't designed 
 for climbing, it just seems natural. The element of Parkour is fantastic as you jump on rooftops 
 and climb and buildings you can imagine. 
  
  As Altair, you are a combat machine, able to slaughter groups of enemies on your own. You will 
 use a variety of weapons, a long-sword, a short-sword, throwing knives, and a hidden blade in a 
 wrist bracer. The hidden blade provides stealth assassinations, where the long-sword for example 
 tears enemies up with power attacks. All are well designed and look appropriately visceral and 
 brutal. Although its simple button mashing at first, soon you will be performing more efficient 
 parry counterattacks, etc. These are zoomed in when performed for a great and gruesome cinematic 
 effect.
  
  Throughout the game you will do many side missions to assist your main goal of killing the leaders. 
 It ranges from saving citizens, to listening in on conversations and beating information out of 
 people. The main missions are where the greatest excitement is however, as you will certainly become 
 eager to plunge the wrist dagger in one of the nine leaders you are tasked to obliterate.
  
  Assassin's Creed is an excellent game, with few flaws. No one being able to swim is easily 
 the weakest part of the game as being thrown or falling into waters will result in instant death. 
 Such a thing is easily forgivable however, as getting lost in this excellent world, discovering 
 the story as it unfolds, exploring the beautiful cities and assassinating Templars and many others 
 makes Assassin's Creed. easily one of the best of 2007.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Assassin's Creed, the game starts off in the modern world with a bartender named Desmond 
 Miles who is captured by a scientist and his assistant. Apprently our DNA holds memories of our 
 ansestors and they are trying to unlock that. For most of the game you play as Altair, a member 
 of the Hashshashin (or Assassins) , a real-life group that performed politically-motivated murders 
 between the 11th and 13th centuries. Set in the Middle East during the third crusade, You traval 
 though three huge cities looking for nine main people who are organizing the crusades. There is 
 just so much to do in this game such as saveing people, listen in of people, do small missions, 
 pick pocketing and so on but they do get reapetive. Also the ending of the game is not that good 
 and does not leave you satisfied with the game.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing in this game. Enviroments are beutifally done and everything 
 looks natural and realistic. Movements are really nice and smoothed out. I'm amazed by how detailed 
 the cites are and how thousands of people in the city are indivially doing something, but seem 
 a block and robotic but thats forgivable.
  
  
  Sound: The soundscore is good and well yeah suits the game for the time period it is set in. So 
 is the voice acting all the characters in the game have good voice acting accept Altair, which 
 was not done as well.
  
  
  
  Value: A ok story, repetitive gameplay elements, and ok AI lead to the downfall of one of the more 
 promising games in recent memory. Also this game mixes elements of the games "Prince of Persia" 
 and "Hitman" but with more freedome. Even though I really enjoyed this game, it does have it's 
 issues which prevented this game from being amazing. Assassin's Creed could have been one of the 
 great games of this generation. Instead, it turned into just another action title. I give this 
 game 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed in my opinion was one of the most hyped games of 2008 and after playing through 
 it was not at all a disapointment but a truly enthralling experience that best deserves to be played 
 which is why it is one of the most popular games of the year.
  
  The good
  great graphics that look so real, some good moments of voice acting, gameplay is fun ( stabbing 
 people with the hidden blade is freakin wicked) , Leap of faith and the story is quite immersive. in 
 game animations are a sight to behold, Altair is an agile bastard.
  
  The bad
  can see glitches sometimes its eye catching but forgivable cus this game is that good, the AI can 
 be a bit stupid at times, thier is no variety in missions its always find information then kill 
 the bastard who terrorising the people but killing them is just that cool and funny, cutscenes 
 can go on for ages listeneing to that dikhead al mualim is f*ckin boring as.
  
  this game is one of my favorites of the year and i wouldnt be surprised if it wins the game of 
 the year or comes close to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan-g-young
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting the challenge and thrill of plotting and executing elaborate assassinations requiring 
 stealth and skill. Instead I was banging my head against the wall for buying a elaborate, nicely 
 packaged and MASSIVELY over-hyped piece of garbage.
  
  First of all, this is not at all a stealth game, it's a hack and slash with the option of being 
 stealthy for no better reason than to prolong the pain. It was so incredibly easy, repetitious 
 and utterly boring that is is almost unplayable. The hardest part of the game was simply getting 
 excited enough to play it. 
  
  Why is this not a stealth game you ask? Because there is absolutely no reason to engage in much 
 stealth. It is too easy to simply cut through hordes of enemies with out much fear of dying. Even 
 if you die there is no real consequence. I only engaged in one stealth assassination before I realized 
 there was absolutely no point to it. I could simply hack and slash through all of the target's 
 guards and the target himself with little effort. 
  
  The "investigations" were a series of repetitious and boring mini games. There was nearly no diversity 
 to the 4 types of investigations, or challenge for that matter. For example, I found out later 
 in the game that I didn't even need to follow interrogation targets into an alley to beat info 
 out of them, I could simply do it where they stand (in front of the guards) with no reaction from 
 the guards.
  
  One of my biggest problems with the game was that it's supposed to be an open game, (like every 
 other game seems to be these days) but there is nothing to do in the massive world they created. 
 I admit the graphics and game world look great, but there is no substance. Your vast game world 
 allows you to collect flags, save a few citizens and climb on top of various structures to see 
 more of the map. With the exception of revealing the map, there is no point to any of the other 
 "freedom of choice" objectives. 
  
  However, the storyline is great and has potential. This is of course if you can deal with staring 
 at the back of Altar's head, or other equally terrible camera angles for upwards of 5 minutes, 
 because the designers decided to not add in alot of cinematic cut scenes. 
  
  
  Some people may say that I didn't "play the game properly" so I couldn't enjoy all of the "cool" 
 stealth portions of the game. But stealth isn't a first option, it is used when your against impossible 
 odds so you HAVE to resort to unconventional tactics. Besides it wasn't up to me to make this a 
 stealth game, it was up to the designers who obviously didn't. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooopersmith
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a free world role playing game i have the game and have spent many hours playing 
 around with the wonders of the magnificent game play. The main story line is that it is about a 
 his ancestors and how he got to assassinate 9 important leaders. The quality of Assassin's creed 
 is unbelievable and you can never get tired of its hard hitting drama the best bit of Assassin's 
 creed would probably be the many different styles of fighting. Another great feature is the climbing 
 and how you can climb absolutely anything you see and perform leaps of faith into the hay bales 
 the weird thing about the hay is that is you did that in real life you'd break your back. 
  
  Now I'm going to fight off some retards in the planet spack.
  
  SIGNED: ( [] [] PR$|\/||T|-| 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  The story in this game is interesting; it involves people in the future looking through the past 
 to uncover something powerful. 
  Graphically this game is gorgeous. The cities look very detailed, it recreates a living breathing 
 city like never before. It does use the old repeat building models over and over trick but it all 
 looks so great that you wont mind. Each city has plenty of unique structures that will wow you. 
 The draw distance is a sight to behold; you will stand atop the largest tower and be able to see 
 the entire city. There are frame rate issues, there are a few tiny moments when you see perfect 
 60 FPS and its amazing but most of the game runs at something not as smooth, it does have its hiccups 
 as well.
  The music is great, I love the main theme. The voice acting is mostly good.
  Assassin's Creed is a frustrating game cause the mechanics, gameplay and graphics are all AAA quality 
 but everything else is like an afterthought.
  I played the game for 26 hours and it was great. its really worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewcarlson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow was i surprized about this one i never pre-orderd it, it came out never got it, 3 months got 
 it loved it got ever achevment and still play it today. this game never gets old. I cant beleve 
 the story line it suited this game perfictly. the graffics a 10 out 10 never have i seen a 3rd 
 person game. and the sweet featurs like the eagle dive and the knife kills AWSOME. gameplay takes 
 getting used to but a person will get a hang of things in a few mer minutes. the detalling of the 
 enviorment and the buildings is unbelivable if you dout this ether you seen a way better game or 
 u have bad eye sight. The moves that the player can do is unbelivable it's like spider man meets 
 james bond. with a little Rambo of course. one more thing before i finish if you never got this 
 game, was not interested, hates 3rd person, or think its hard rent it or even buy it it will be 
 worth every doller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwhitby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  One of the criticisms levelled at this game in some reviews is it's supposedly "repetitive nature" 
 regarding completing the investigation tasks prior to assassinating each target. 
  
  Every game needs some form of structure and all games are inherently repetitive by nature e. g Gears 
 or Halo - grab a gun and shoot wave after wave of bad guys / Oblivion - search caves, kill monsters, 
 find loot / Forza - drive round and round! These are all fantastic games and I know I'm over simplifying, 
 but each could be summed up in a few lines; it's the presentation, feel and other nuances that 
 make a game great or not. 
  
  Likewise with Assassins Creed. It's a simple game to sum up, can even be made to sound repetitive, 
 but nothing can sum up just how COOL the whole thing feels! 
  
  Honestly, Ive never felt so immersed in a world or experienced a game world that just feels so 
 damn real as this. Yes, there are sequences of tasks to complete in the overall story arc, but 
 I keep revisiting the game again and again (even after completeing it) just to experience the sights 
 and sounds of the gameworld (I really can't stress just how good this game looks and sounds!) or 
 the feel of climbing up towers and churches and leaping across rooftops, or the satisfying feel 
 of defeating groups of hostile swordsmen with some extremely realistic animation. 
  Each city is amazing ( no, I do mean amazing) with an almost unbelievable attention to detail ( 
 not only graphically but in terms of sounds) and each is different from the other. Sometimes I 
 just find myself wandering around like some kind of medieval tourist, without following up any 
 of the tasks I'm supposed to be doing, simply because the environments are so engrossing. Then 
 there is the huge central countryside area which is great to ride around in. . .
  
  Even if you do plough quickly through the game from task to task, target to target and start to 
 get a little jaded from carrying them out, theres plenty of free roaming diversion to go off and 
 play around with for a while before you get back into the plot.
  
  I love it and, for my part, the Gamespot review was spot on - it has stayed with me for a long 
 time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Lather rinse repeat... Lather rinse kill yourself due to boredom.
  
  Assassins Creed is the only game that I have wanted so badly that I had to buy it the day it came 
 out. 
  It's also the only game I havn't completed. (and I've finished some stinkers in my time)
  
 
  I just couldn't bring myself to go get on horseback (yet again) and to climb to the top of a tower 
 (yet again) and to interrogate someone (yet again) and to pickpocket someone (yet ag..... you get 
 the drift) .
  
  Yes, the graphics are amazing, but on closer look, the people you interact with are as badly detailed 
 as the rest of the crowd.
  
  The voice acting is cheesy to say the least.
  
  But to be honest the past two comments are just nitpicking. I would of happily lapped up cheesy 
 lines and average looking crowd members if there was more to take my mind off them.
  
  It could have been so good, but Ubisoft Montreal just forgot to think of more than one mission 
 to do, and instead repeated the same thing 9 times.
  
  The 6 is for the graphics and the 'it could have been so great' feeling it left me with.
  
 
  I know some gamers may be say that if I didn't complete it, I shouldn't be reviewing it. But the 
 bitter after taste is so strong I just had to warn others.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelman5674
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  The game in itself has fabulous graphics and a good free lift feel. The only major problem is repetetiveness. 
 You do the same thing over and over and over and over and over again. All the time. There is no 
 unlockable secret or hidden weapons or extra bonus missions. All it is is follow this straight 
 line all the way through the end. Oh, and the achievements for capturing all the flags in the cities 
 is gay 100 flags in each individual city. Why? Why would someone be that cruel to make me waste 
 huge amounts of time looking for fake flags. Not worth it. So, as I was saying before, you should 
 just follow this pattern. Go to a store and RENT this game. You will see what I am saying right 
 after you play it. You wont beat it in one day, I quarantee you that. It is soooooo long and you 
 can't skip and videos of annoyingness. Sure you could go and kill pointless civilians and guards, 
 but it's really easy to take them all on. I took on well over 1,000's of guards and left without 
 a scratch. It is really easy once you know the right moves and combos. This game, needs some help. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a brand new type of game. You play an assassin that needs to go after a few 
 people in order to get some answers for the future. The game actually takes place in present time. 
 Your character is taken against his will and used in an experiment that will unlock the pieces 
 of his past in order the get a certain treasure in the present time. The story is really hard to 
 fallow. You have to pay real close attention in order to really understand what's going on. 
  
  Game Play: This game is really funat first. You go to a certain cities to find your target. 
 But before you can actually go after your target, you have to gather some information from people 
 in the city. You will end up pick pocketing people to get a note, or you will beat the information 
 out of someone, and you will even help out your fellow assassins by taking out the people who are 
 after them. In return, your fellow assassin will pass on some important information. You do that 
 over, and over, and over until you beat the game. It gets really repetitive after about the third 
 time. Other than getting a bunch of hidden flags, saving a few citizens from the law, and finding 
 all the high points, there really is no other side quests or anything. 
  
  Sound: The music in the game sounds great. It goes with what is going on in the game. For example, 
 when you are being chased by the guards, it will get a bit more fast paced. The voice acting is 
 solid, except for the main character which is really a bummer.
  
  Graphics: As beautiful as anything you have ever seen. Everything is so detailed it's amazing. 
 Character animation is smooth, the lighting, everything is great. 
  
  Playability: It will take a bit to get used to the controls. Because there will be a lot of climbing, 
 running, jumping, hiding, and fighting, there will be many buttons that you will have to get used 
 to using. All the skills that you will end up getting, you will have to get used to using all of 
 them to be successful in a fight. Once you get used to all of them, it will be no problem for you. 
 
  
  Overall: The game really isn't that hard. The main game can be completed in about 10 to 15 hours. 
 This game could have been something great. But the fact that it just gets so boring doing the same 
 thing over and over, it just gets repetitive and you probably will get frustrated. And the fact 
 that the story really goes nowhere, by the end of the game you are going to be saying "huh?" Those 
 two things are the big draw backs that really keep the game from being a classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Pro's:
  -great graphics
  -a good story (minus the ending)
  -awesome sound effects
  -great controls
  -a lot of variety (many different  
  
  
 Con's:
  -very confusing ending
  -exteremely repititve
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is a beatifully designed game. The character models, buildings, cut scences 
 are all gorgeous and are nearly free of glitches. The gameplay is great (counter and combo system 
 works great when fending off multiple enemies) . There is a good number of different things to do 
 ranging from pickpocketing to flag collecting, only problem with this is that it is repeated far 
 too much and gets boring after awhile. This and the fact that the end of the game is very confusing 
 (and required a lot of net suring to put some peices together) are basically the only drawbacks 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a highly addicting masterpiece full of adventure and suspense. Though it is 
 a bit repetitive and boring at times, that doesn't stop it from blowing my mind. This game has 
 an absolutely stunningly beautiful environment that will keep you climbing and hiding for hours 
 on end. The story line of this game is quite amazing, as it places you in a completely new and 
 unique environment in video games, and also allows you to do some things that are also new to gaming 
 (with the help of the new next-gen consoles of course) . Basically, the bottom line is if you enjoy 
 stealth games and the excitement of completely new environments and techniques, the you will love 
 this game and you should probably buy this game as soon as possible, and with a little bit of patience 
 (I know how long those Wal Mart lines can be) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is gorgous and amazing. The story is immersive and everthing about the game is great. 
 First the story is great and sucks you in and makes you want to find out what will happen next. 
 The graphics are amazing except for a few glitches but that is few and far between. The controls 
 are nice and tight and easy to use. The counter kills look amazing and I like how when you perform 
 one the camera comes in close so you can see the kill. However after a while it does become wait 
 for a bad guy to swing and then just counter kill and repeat. Also the end of the story is pretty 
 confusing but definitly lets you know that there will be at least a second game. Other than that 
 this game is nearly perfect in every way. It's neat how they tell the story through the eyes of 
 an assassin that was at the top of his game and then was stripped of all his ranks. Also there 
 is a great twist near the end of the game. This is a must own for any next gen system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  When i put this game into my 360 i said wow. I mean who wouldn't it's a graphical masterpiece which 
 should be enough to give it a 9.5, but it's also very fun and addictive. We've seen other games 
 that looked nice, but you have to admit this games presentation was amazing.
  
  I didn't find the story confusing or anything, actually i found it very good and it was told in 
 a good way. The game also has great sound effects and does not have many slow-down or any type 
 of glichy problem that you might find in some other sand-box style games. This game might get a 
 little repetetive, but at least you know your getting alot in return. I have to say the fighting 
 controls are really great and this is also a great platformer. You can tell that Ubisoft put alot 
 of effort into making this and they should receive alot of credit for it. 
  
  This game isn't perfect, but if the sequel fixes the very small problems that this game suffers 
 from then it will be perfect. I don't see why someone would dislike this game, maybe they were 
 just mad about the ending and made excuses that the game was bad, but it is a great experience. 
 And it really deserves a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Ubisoft's Assassins Creed looked good, very good actually. But personally the 
 game struggled to impress me. I think that was because I'm a story man at heart and not knowing 
 anything about Assassins Creed's (AS) storyline left me less excitedd about the game. That was 
 until I noticed all that computer code stuff flittering about around the beautiful graphics and 
 went...... ''ok this could be interesting'' I feel sorry for questioning the game now, because 
 Assassins Creed is easily one of the best games (if not the best) released in 2007.
  
  It made me laugh a little when I read comments concerning the game, comments like ''Assassins Creed 
 could be great, but as no gameplay'' or when people refer to a game as ''Like Assassins Creed, 
 but with gameplay''. Lets get one thing straight here, AS as superb gameplay, in fact its better 
 then I first would have imagined. The game is fluid and controls very well. Dispite one or two 
 issues with the jumping mechanic of the game (for instance when trying to run up a ladder you miss 
 it slightly and run up the wall) everything is seriously well thought up and there really isn't 
 a mechanic to the game that doesn't work in some way or another. Sword play is another superbly 
 well put together gameplay style, a lot of games out there have done their level best to get good 
 Swordplay, but Ubisoft Montreal have done an amazing job at almost mastering it. Overall Swordplay 
 should be fun, but it is also stragetic and dispite a few times relying on counters a little to 
 much its great fun and easily one of the games best aspects. AS isn't as repetitive as some might 
 think, dispite the core of the game being you Altiere going to cities to kill a specific target, 
 its much deeper then that and AS is what you make it.
  
  Storywise I won't give anything away, but all I'll say is that its brilliantly written with fantastic 
 dialogue. Its also got a great cast of characters who are well voice acted by some great actors. 
 I find it actually hard to pic a fault character wise, if I at to pick a fault storywise, it would 
 be that the end leaves you slightly frustrated and desperately wanting more.... please come on 
 Ubisoft Montreal get working on Assassins Creed 2. The cities are also worth mentioning, there 
 truelly fasicinating places and although the population and guards can sometimes seem a little 
 lost and think occasionally, I dare you to walk done the dirty poor streets of Jerusalem and not 
 get sucked into the games world. Its a beautiful place and Ubi Montreal have done a superb job 
 at capturing the cities as they were back then in the time of the crusades. There are aspects that 
 will start to get on your nerves a little, for instance poor women often get in your way and occasionally 
 you feel you need to get your little blade out to scare them away (but alerting the guards at the 
 sametime) and the mad who walk the cities in areas are a pain as they will push into you and knock 
 you over, I reconmend a nice punch (nothing more or the guards will be watching) . to scare them 
 away. Overall tho its fantastic and all runs at a very good framerate. Theres a lot I could talk 
 about, but I would be giving the story away a little so I will not.
  
  STORY: Superb, wothy of a hollywood oscar. Deep, interesting and leaves you wanting more for Assassins 
 Creed 2.
  
  GAMEPLAY: A little bit of a surprise, really well put together mechanics and fluid graphics makes 
 times with Altiere fun.
  
  GRAPHICS: Top Notch, with a few cracks here or there. There are some ragdoll issues and the occasional 
 framerate issue in very very small areas of the game. Nothing greatly noticeable.
  
  OVERALL: Overall, Assassins Creed came a little by surprise. A superb story with great characters 
 and a truelly immersive world helps everything fit together. I loved it, can't believe I played 
 Halo 3 instead of this when it came out because Assassins Creed put Halo 3 in the shade. A MUST 
 HAVE FOR ALL XBOX 360 AND PS3 OWNERS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alilari
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Starting with an unusual but great story. This story makes you want to continue and find out what 
 is happening in this world. Altair is a mysterious but very cool character! He is skilled assassin 
 and an amazing athlete. He is able to jump to lots of places climb to the highest of buildings. 
 Assassinations are exciting and fun. Will make you feel as if you are really controlling a cut 
 scene. The hidden blade is also cool, which comes out of a cut of finger. Then comes the escape, 
 which you have to leap across the building of the city and find a place to jump from. Eagle jumps 
 are also nice, you get to jump from very high places into hay. Overall this game is worth playing 
 and deserves it's rating.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  lsjzdfl kanhg opasb jdgopb jask ljbgs klajb gkljsbg klsbak lbgjsk labgsjkl dbg kjsbagk ljbsad lgkbj 
 sadkljbgs bgas dbjklgblbg dhosdihf fsdhfl; hsdf sdjfhsjkdhjf sdjhsdkljh . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AZisBack
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I am a busy person and I don't have a lot of time to spend playing video games (compared to when 
 I was younger) . Once I start a game, I am usually determined to beat it. Because of this mindset, 
 I read a lot of game reviews before I purchase or even rent a game. If the game gets bad reviews, 
 I usually don't play the game. Assassins Creed received mixed reviews (Game Rankings average 8.2) . 
 Some reviews said it was amazing and others said it was just an average game. I had a couple of 
 friends that told me I had to play the game, so they convinced me to play the game sooner than 
 I originally planned. I was very interested to find out for myself if Assassins Creed was worth 
 playing. Well I just finished Assassins Creed and I really enjoyed it. It was a fun game that is 
 definitely worth playing through at least once. There were some issues that prevented this game 
 from being truly amazing though. I suggest that someone rents Assassins Creed before purchasing 
 it. 
  
  The main draw I had to Assassins Creed is that the story isn't like every game that is currently 
 made. The main part of the game takes place in the Middle East (Jerusalem, Damascus, and more) 
 in the year 1191 A. D. There is a second part of the game takes plays in 2012. I'm not going to 
 go into any details but it makes sense when you play the game. I have mixed emotions about the 
 storyline when I played the game. The story was entertaining but a bit predictable after a few 
 assassinations. The ending was very disappointing. There is a lame cliffhanger ending that I personally 
 feel is a bad thing to have in a game. I would say the ending was better than Rainbow Six: Vegas' 
 ending (which had the worst ending in first game of a series) . I put the ending on par with Halo 
 2 (another bad ending) . I would have purchased the game already but I didn't like the ending and 
 I refuse to buy new games at full price if they have a cliffhanger ending (I'm only getting half 
 the story so I should only pay half the price) .
  
  The game graphics in Assassins Creed are absolutely gorgeous. The load times were a bit lengthy 
 but they mainly occurred when you changed cities. When I saw the cities, I forgot about the loading 
 time because it was worth it for the final results. The cities are very detailed and are massive 
 in size. When you climb to the top of a tower you can see the entire city at a distance, which 
 is quite an accomplishment. There are several different types of buildings and they are beautifully 
 textured. Although the same buildings are used repeatedly it is hard to notice them (compared to 
 a game like GTA) . Altar, the main character, looks great and the attention to detail is excellent. 
 Altar's character animations are smooth and appear to be lifelike. The NPC's look good as well. 
 Occasionally guards popped up from nowhere but this only happened a few times of the course of 
 the entire game so it is forgivable.
  
  The presentation was done well for the most part. The controls layout was setup nicely and it was 
 easy to execute the controller commands. There were occasional issues while climbing. If the camera 
 was at an awkward angle the Altar would climb the wrong direction or not move at all. The heads 
 up display was easy to follow and wasn't too overbearing. The audio was done well but I did have 
 some issues. Sound effects, music and voice acting were excellent. I did not have any problems 
 with the voice acting of Altar, although IGN's review bashed the hell out of it. My problems with 
 the audio was that the beggars being to loud. The beggars follow you around and talk too much. 
 Although they are supposed to be annoying, the real annoyance was when you were in a mission cut 
 scene and all you hear is the beggar and muffled sounds of your target. This would not have been 
 an issue if there were subtitles in the game. I don't understand why a big budget game doesn't 
 have subtitles. I read somewhere that Ubisoft ran out of time but I think that is completely unacceptable.
 
  
  I would like to say the game sucked me in immediately but it did not. I hate when games give you 
 abilities from the start but take them away. That is what happened in Assassins Creed. It also 
 took me a couple of assassinations to really get into the game. The problem I had with the gameplay 
 was that it got repetitive. Before assassinating a target, Altar needed to gather information 
 about the target. This was done by eavesdropping conversations, pick pocketing, beating people, 
 and talking to other assassins (Altar needed to kill some targets or gather flags) . While this 
 is entertaining at first, you need to do this for every target and it got old fast. The mission 
 that annoyed me the most was gathering flags for assassins. This was annoying because I was already 
 gathering flags for achievements. Also I did not think it was important to for an assassin to gather 
 lost flags. Although it was repetitive it was still fun to play the game.
  
  I think the AI wasn't great but there was a good balance in the difficulty level. The AI was ether 
 too suspicious (they would attack Altar when they saw, after he did nothing) or they would completely 
 ignore him (after killing a group of people) . It balanced out in the end but it was far from perfect. 
 Something else that was funny was that the guards would only attack Altar one at a time even when 
 they were gathered as a group. The main problem with that is with the counter kill mechanic you 
 could wait until one attacked and wipe out the group very easily. 
  I played the Xbox 360 version of the game so the last category to review is achievements. At the 
 time of this writing I have 920/1000 (41/44) of the achievements. All of the achievements are realistically 
 able to be accomplished on the first play through. With that being said some of them are stupid. 
 I don't want to search the entire map to find 420 hidden flags. Of course I did but I did not enjoy 
 it. Thankfully someone created a website  that made it easy 
 to locate all of the flags. My favorite achievement was Enemy of the Poor (You managed to scare 
 away 25 beggars. I hope you're proud of yourself.) It is a chore to get all of the achievements 
 but there are worst games to play to get the full 1000.
  Overall I think the game is worth playing and I will eventually buy it. The graphics and animation 
 are amazing. The gameplay is repetitive but it is still fun. The story is entertaining but the 
 bad ending left a sour taste in my mouth. I personally would not buy this game at full price because 
 of the ending. If I were to assign a numeric value I would rate it 8/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gial240
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one of the best games I've played for Xbox 360 because of it's fantastic visual 
 effects and exellent combat system that will make you want to kill the citizens.
  
  Once you turn on your Xbox 360, you will not want to put this game down. The beautiful Intro of 
 the game is already enough to tell you that it will be one hell of a game. With Assassins Creed's 
 Gameplay, Graphics, and Story, there is always something to be doing or looking at.
  
  The combat for the game seems very simple in the beginning but gets better after your ranks are 
 restored for killing your primary objectives. Swords, Short Swords, Throwing Knives, Fists, even 
 the ability to throw or tackle someone to the ground or over a rooftop gives the player dozens 
 of reasons to start a fight with someone. In my opinion, I prefer using the Sword and short sword 
 because of their abilities to make beautiful counterattacks after an enemy swings at you. The combat 
 is not neccesarily easy either, it is a challenge blocking and dodging hits from Guards, Templars, 
 and some citizens but also makes you feel as if it's you fighting, not Altair.
  
  The beautiful visuals for the game will not only make you feel like your in a realistic enviroment, 
 but will also effect the way you play. There is no where in the game that will make you feel like 
 you've been there before, the Graphics and enviroment keep the areas attractive and always fresh. 
 The world is a very large place, Assasins creed shows this by the size of their cities and the 
 time it takes to travel from on eto the other. You may walk, run, or use a horse to get to your 
 destination, but to keep your travels interesting, there are Guards, and enemies to keep you company.
 
  
  The Story in Assassins Creed may be simple, but has a clear and flawless direction leading to the 
 end of the first game. The trailers and videos you've seen did not show another part of the story 
 that many people did not expect, in the game your actualy someone from the future who is placed 
 in a machine to unravel the history of his ancestors (Altair) . You are able to control this other 
 person once in a while when he comes out of the machine but aren't given much freedom to roam around 
 because you are a "lab rat". Since this person is in the machine most of the time, you will be 
 controlling Altair most of the time. Altair was stripped of his ranks and equipment after killing 
 innocent people and disobeying a couple other laws the Assassins follow after trying to complete 
 an important mission in the beginning of the game. In order to earn the respect, Equipment, and 
 Ranks he had before, he must assasinate 8 important men that are located around the three cities. 
 After killing one, he returns to the guild and has one rank restored with some new equipment and 
 abilities.
  
  Even though that is the main storyline, there are other mini quests you can accomplish that will 
 also reward you with achievements and information about your primary objective. 
  
  The achievements in Assassins creed are also very interesting and challenging. Killing all the 
 Templars, collecting a wide variety of flags placed around the game, jumping through merchants 
 stalls, assasinating guards, and even jumping off 300ft buildings into carts full of hay will reward 
 you with well deserved achievement points. If you want to look at the rest of them, get up off 
 that couch and buy yourself a copy of the game.
  
  Another good thing about this game is even if you don't have an Xbox 360 but your still looking 
 to play this great game, you can get it for PS3, PC, DS, or even your MOBILE. So you've got no 
 excuses as to why you have not played this game.
  
  
  There you go, a full review on this spectacular game. I hope this helps you when you go out and 
 decide to buy a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celestial_todd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a fun game to play you can do all kind of thinks from being sneaky or going 
 into a war by yourself, you can pretty much climb anything in this 1191 A. D world.
  
  Story- The story doesnt make sense? you play two main characters, altaiir ( the assassin in 1191 
 A. D) and desment ( A bartender ( *Present) and former assassin also the ancestor of altaiir) when 
 you mainly play as altaiir you must assassinate 9 major targets and what they do makes sense but 
 how they come together? does not. but anyway you start off in the beginning as altaiir you are 
 assigned to kill this man with 3 other brothers (a. k. a assassins) you have every ability and weapon 
 but altaiir is cocky and arrogant in the begining and kills innocents and fails to kill his target.
 
  so you loose everything and everytime you kill 1 of your 9 major targets you get one weapon and 
 ability back.
  
  gameplay- The controls in AC feel good you can walk, jog and sprint though it would have been nice 
 if you could jog without suspicion or walk with some pace because often times guards are watching 
 your actions and are forced to walk and blend in when you mainly just want to get out of there 
 so you can jog or sprint in piece.
  
  its extremely cool how you can climb and jump onto anything its very helpful when trying to get 
 away from guards because they cant get up there
  
  you have 4 main weapons
  sword- ideal for taking 2 or 3 guards at a time
  short blade- ideal for 4+ guards at a time
 
  throwing knives- ideal for engaging targets at range
  hidden blade- ideal for stealthy kills
  fists-ideal for throwing and grabbing guards or beating 
 people for info.
  
  now the parts that sucks is every assassination is the same!
  you go to your destination on horse or by pressing a if you already been there to save time..
 
  but once you get there you you go to the assassination checkpoint, check in then scout the areas 
 for knowledge once thats done check back into the checkpoint and ask permission to kill the target 
 kill your target and then do this 9 times until you have completed the game.
  
  dont get me wrong this game is fun and killing people is awsome but everything is the same ya know?
 
  no assassination is different from another 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lenny_ohpop
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I have to say the gameplay of this game may be the greatest of any game i have every played. The 
 awesome ability to climb the buildings, though not realistic made it feel like you could actually 
 do it. The big expansive fully detailed cities :D , the combat :D..... the movement of the horses 
 :D....... The assassination's and ability to go at different angles at it.....
  All and all it was an absolutely awesome game...
  Although i went into this review to make sure 
 everybody knew that the downsides..... if u didn't want this then read the 10 out of 10 reviews
 
  
  After you finish the final crap 7th mission.... which is a really really bad ending.... and i mean 
 bad.... the game was a perfect game which made you feel like this was what was actually going on 
 in whatever ad..... but when magic was brought into it i really hated it.... also the endless explanation 
 of why this guy betrayed you... really pissed me off..... why couldent end it with a big battle in 
 the kingdom.... because you killed all these people and they kings didn't like it so they attacked 
 you this would of made it much better..... ok so enough on the complete %&$# ending.....
  after you finish there is absoultly nothing to do. all you can do is the missions again..... i didn't 
 really like doing them again though cause it just wasn't that fun anymore.... like i said before 
 there should of been more exciting missions maybe in between battles where the assasians office 
 in Jerusalem was discovered and Altair had to make his way out of the office with alot of guards 
 after you...... then you had to escape the city.... masses of people running around mad towards the 
 kingdom because they heard of the murderer......... this would really take the replay ability for 
 me.
  other small things i didn't like was crappy missions u had to do before a assassination.... such 
 as sit down on a bench and listen to people.... sure it looked good but it wasn't exciting... they 
 easily could of made this better... such as sneaking into a castle to find information on guards... changing 
 records etc.....
  
  ok so thats it..... overall they easily could of just had better missions and it would of hit the 
 10 out of 10.......... i give it a 9/10 only because of the excellent gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobaka770
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The last year was showering upon us with a great amount of great titles. WE had some new stuff 
 (Bioshock) , and some farm-the-money-machine stuff (Call of Duty) . Well let's just say, that I really 
 like the 4th installment of the CoD franchise, just as I like, Crysis, Guitar Hero 3 and a lot 
 of other games, but when Assassin's Creed came out it just smothered all the other games, and put 
 them in a dust bin. At least that was the feeling i got, and here's why:
  
  a) Originality.
  
  In august the Bioshock came out, which I was looking forwards to as the 
 game that would do a little revolution in the quite conservative world of FPS. Moreover, Bioshock 
 didn't have any number after it's name. The point being that despite it's inspiration from System 
 Shock 2 and other various games, it was a completely new game, and somebody actually tried to invent 
 something new in the industry where the easiest path to glory is to take a franchise and clone 
 it to death. It would be unwise to say that the sequels are always bad (CoD, Warcraft, UT are the 
 great series) but when the actual game number trespasses the magical 3, no matter what the game 
 is, it would lose a hell lot of points in my personal (!) game - of - the - year -meter, just because 
 these kind of things stall the gaming industry because the gameplay doesn't evolve within the series. 
 If you wanna do a very long franchise, take example from Hollywood - take a 30-year break between 
 the episodes (Star Wars and the new Indiana Jones movies for example) .
  
  And I don't care if I was disappointed with Bioshock, because maybe it''s just not my kind of game, 
 and art-deco doesn't really inspire me much, it's still a much better try than CoD4 or NFS 'don't 
 have enough fingers on my hand to count how many there are already'. Now Assassin's Creed's first 
 points come from it's originality - the studio that brought us Prince of Persia could've just re-skinned 
 the main hero and put him in Jerusalem, with pretty graphics and the after the E3 overhype, the 
 game would still sell a ***illion copies. But they didn't :
  the controls are all new, the game being more concentrated on the story and freedom rather than 
 the complex acrobatics which are now done almost automatically by the hero. b) Open and beautiful 
 world:
  
  This time I'll leave the Bioshock comparison and move to Crysis. Assassin's Creed world is huge, 
 and even despite the at that we don't have any interior locations apart from the Assassin's fortress, 
 we got an incredible amount of territory to run around. The three cities are all different and 
 the streets are so small and numerous, that the map is our only saviour, considering that that 
 the citizens (endless stream of people) aren't very talkative in terms of giving directions. They 
 are here to bump into while chased by guards (or not, but I find myself being sadistic sometimes) , 
 run away when we kill someone, show off the incredible animation of our protagonist we'll come 
 back to it later) , give quests and sometimes beg for money, but not for a very long time, because 
 IA pains to understand Altair is a busy man with a lot of blades up his sleeve...
  
  Altair can walk around and climb around as he pleases, which is a cool thing to do, considering 
 that the main hero is animated with some alien technology and looks so realistic, that I had my 
 kitchen knife at hand for the occasion when he can accidently jump out of the screen. Every surface, 
 every person can be interacted with, Altair can dodge, pat, his hand find the smallest hole in 
 any wall to climb up the building.
  
  The big part of it is also due to the graphics engine which is not maybe technically as powerful 
 as the one in the heart of Crysis, but here are two very interesting points: - artistically Assassin's 
 Creed definitely looks better, each city is unique, a lot of work done with architecture, style 
 and small details which make the world feel alive, and even though the inhabitants of each city 
 aren't as stuffed in polygons as the main hero, there's just so many of them that it's just amazing 
 how the game manages to put all this at the same time on one screen - it's sad but my on my computer 
 Cryses runs.... well at least it runs on my computer to be honest. The game demands so much from 
 your system that I just have to say that why the hell did they bother? Usually the jungle looks 
 great and very much alive, but just as you deviate from the main road, it just becomes very much 
 dead, unpopulated and uninteresting. Maybe if the locations weren't so big, we could've appreciated 
 much more the graphics engine. Oh well, I guess Crysis will be the game of the year 08 when IBM 
 creates a  which manages to run it with very high Dx10 
 graphics (oh sorry it can't coz it was out in 07!) Until then, it won't receive the prize for best 
 graphics ever, because in my head the graphics are a part of the game which is used to be seen 
 with my very own eyes when I look at my screen, and I don't grade the pictures in my head with 
 slogan - that's how it looks like if you had money for 4Gb Ram, and 8800GTX-Sli video chip.
  
  So to recapitulate all the whining: AC is doesn't have the best graphics of the year, but manages 
 to create the most believable living world in 2007.
  
  c) Gameplay:
  
  Ah, here's a problem: from 5 million of happy owners of this game, there are at least 40% which 
 weren't actually very happy anymore since like the second victim.
  
  Okay, let's face it: this game is repetitive and ultimately boring, but then again - here is my 
 personal opinion on the game so feel free to disagree with me - and my point of view is that the 
 gameplay is just what I wanted it to be, it's not fast paced, very cinematic and, as I already 
 stated before very open. The only thing that you can reproach to the game is that it's being overhyped, 
 but the 'hype' phenomenon is not anyone's fault but of the consumers. Assassin's Creed was always 
 stated to be an adventure game, in 1191 AD, with charismatic hero, futuristic story, 9 targets 
 to kill and yeah, it was supposed to be very realistic with the cities being all authentic to the 
 real ones. Well I'm happy to inform you guys that all these promises were kept. You can fight, 
 explore, live in this world, climb around and ultimately kill all your targets. All the rest were 
 just forum speculation and prognoses.
  The combat system is simple and quite effective, the assassination's are all unique, however in 
 my experience there was only one good 'assassination', all the rest being a bloodbath, with dozens 
 of guard, because the victim could see me from a kilometer away.
  
  The biggest problem seems to be the repetitive investigation system, but normally the missions 
 aren't extremely boring, or challenging, the reward being another piece of the puzzle (useless 
 to say that if you don't follow the story line the quests can get repetitive, but then why did 
 you buy this single player only game if not for the story) . The only concern I got in all the game 
 is the inability of my assassin to swim, which is annoying because jumping around the water becomes 
 a very stressing experience.
  
  Other then following the main line, you can always fool around the town, climb on the towers, provoke 
 guard to fight with you, or simply sit and listen to the crowd all around you.
  
  This game is not meant to be enjoyed by everyone, it has a rather casual difficulty (means easy) 
 and it can be done in a short amount of time, but the real satisfaction comes from endless exploration 
 - visit the top of the Jerusalem Cathedral and enjoy the silence all around, finding the flags 
 (well I didn't actually find all of them because these sub-missions look the same thing is the 
 two pictures with 'find 100 mistakes between them' slogan. It's long, it's hard and the only good 
 thing you get from it is a personal satisfaction and probably now you'll never get lost in the 
 1191 AD Acre ever again.
  
  And that's probably the only whining I'll have, not taking into account the abrupt ending which 
 is a nice way to say - "Yeah there will be a sequel guys", but many could consider it as a not 
 very nice way to say "Spend 70 more bucks to know what's really going on or **** You very much". 
 Me being the one in the first group as I enjoyed the game, i liked walking around, discovering 
 stuff, listening to dialogue and the plot, I liked fighting, jumping and this is the best simulated 
 life in the Medieval Town ever in a single player game. So all the CoD , UT and other fast-paced 
 games fans will find this game dull and repetitive, but for me it's like people who read comic 
 books (casual stuff) who complain about Da Vinci art because it's dull boring and need a hell lot 
 of time to really understand what he wanted to say by this whole thing anyway.
  
  People like comic books, but they aren't art : Assassin's Creed is with Bioshock the two pillars 
 of this year. I just liked AC more, so for me it gives all I ever wanted and it earns my merit 
 as the Best Game of last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haasebeagle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I can see why it got high scores as I loved it but was much to easy. I've died more in HALO 3 in 
 my first 30 min playing at "Heroic" than during beating this whole game. 
  
  But it was a beautiful world to explore. Great story and well worth the price. Gameplay graphics 
 better than most filmclips Ive seen in other games and the open world is awesome to explore and 
 controls make it very easy to learn and get around. Desperately needed a harder difficulty setting 
 available. And the saving civilian missions got repetitive. So polished, but why use the same phrases 
 over & over when so well done in other ways. 
  
  The climbs and jumps? Make your stomach drop and are almost worth the game alone. 
  
  Downsides: 
 To many cutscenes, and WAY to easy, repetitive missions
  Upsides: Graphics, controls, open-world to explore, cutscenes blended well with game, the sense 
 of speed and falling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willstudz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  I've played Assasins creed one full time through. At first, I tried very hard to find all the flags 
 and templars, but as I got further and further along into the storyline, I was just anxious to 
 get on with the story. There is alot of repitition in the main quests, which is unfortunate, and 
 really the only thing holding this game back from its true potential.
  
  The gameplay is great. The combat is fun. The quests are a tad repetitive. You are some dude in 
 the future. You get hooked up to a machine called the animus. And the doctors are basically keeping 
 you as a prisoner. The people are trying to find some sort of answer locked deep in your genetic 
 code. And the animus is the key to unlocking it. As you get hooked up to this machine, you are 
 to relive some previous ancestors life as altair, an assasin. The game is based around going in 
 and out of the animus (days at a tie) which are levels in the game. At the start your master strips 
 you of your rank and weapons. He give you a list of 9 people that are to die by your hand. As you 
 go through these quests, he restores your weapons and rank. All of these people are distributed 
 evenly throughout three massively complex cities. Throughout these places you are to walk around, 
 kill, pickpocket, eavesdrop, and interrogate people in order to get the information you need to 
 plan an attack. Once you have this information, you go to the local assasins guild and report to 
 one of your bretheren. Then you strike. And this formula is repeated until all of these people 
 are dead. The combat system is well thought out. You can simply sneak up to a guard and stab him 
 in the juggular, or if they are suspicious enough you will have to be ready for a sword fight or 
 just run. If you choose to fight, you have to kill every single guard around (which isn't very hard) 
 with the risk of other guards being alerted of your presence. If you choose to run, you have to 
 find the nearest hiding spot. There are also little side missions and stuff like that to do, like 
 saving innocent residences from the tyrannical guards. Or finding all the lookout towers to broaden 
 your view and make you aware of whats happening locally. All in all, its a well thought out system, 
 but it does get a little repetitive.
  
  The graphics are AMAZING. Excellent detail in absolutley everything. This is one of the best looking 
 games out there.
  
  The sound is perfect, they never missed a thing. Dramatic crescendos when you stab a guy from behind.
 
  
  Storyline is predictable, but I won't ruin anything for anybody.
  
  There is little to no re-layability. However it seems I should stop looking for this in games, 
 because thats really where everything is headed.
  
  Overall, Assassns Creed is an amazing experience that should not be missed. I can't wait for the 
 second installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowlarama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very exciting game that will keep you busy for hours, taking leaps of faith, 
 making stealth assassinations, making use of the great sword fighting system or just running, leaping 
 and bounding round this huge environment. 
  
  The graphics in Assassin's Creed are absolutely incredible and make the game a lot better because 
 you can just sort of imagine what it was really like. They also add extra excitement for example 
 the huge leaps of faith or the awe inspiring views when you find a View Point. The best part about 
 the game is the sword fighting system which is just plain fun to use. You can counter kill, combo 
 kill or just hack away at them.
  
  Mission structure is the main thing that makes the game get repetitive because you have to pretty 
 much do the same thing for every mission be it eaves dropping, intimidation or pick pocketing.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed is a must buy and will provide lots of fun for 36 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WikitClown
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I had heard a lot of mixed reviews about this game and as soon as I picked it up I was not disappointed. 
 Many people said that it was too easy and too short but I found it to be quite the opposite. The 
 game does get progressively harder and it's only short if you want to play it that way. Exploring 
 the cities different districts, saving citizens, and climbing view-points is a great way to stretch 
 this game out. If you wanna get the most bang for your buck than I would suggest doing all of the 
 objectives in each city instead of coping out and only doing the 2 or 3 that are necessary. The 
 fact that there are so many flags in the game to find makes it interesting and you get achievement 
 points too so you can't go wrong if you're down with getting the points. Killing Templars is also 
 a lot of fun and earns you achievement points. Another good thing is that once you've played through 
 the game you can go back and shank as many innocents as you want without penalty so remember that 
 bum/crazy that punched or harassed you? SHANK EM !!! If you're a fan of history and enjoy the stealthy 
 genre than I would definetly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Mana_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a third-person stealth game. The primary goal of the game is to complete nine 
 assassinations which can be completed by a number of ways, before any assassination becomes available 
 you need to preform different tasks like speaking to informers, eavesdropping, interrogation and 
 pickpocketing. you also have the chance to help citizens that are being threatened or harassed 
 by city guards, these certain tasks only become available however once you have climbed a high 
 point to map out the city. killing templars and collecting flags are also some of the side quests 
 available.
  
  The combat is more of a button mash at first but the further you progress through the game the 
 more moves you unlock, the best and most useful being counter attack. the fights are enjoyable 
 but can be frustrating when reinforcements appear very quickly forcing you into battle. you can 
 throw guards into nearby wooden structures to send them collapsing and taking out everyone close 
 to it or hit them from long range with a throwing knife, throwing guards of buildings of stabbing 
 them from behind with your hidden blade is also available.
  
  Blending will become very important after killing certain targets or when your trying to escape 
 from guards. hiding in the rooftop canapes, sitting down on a bench or blending in with scholars 
 are all possible and effective ways.
  
  The story behind assassins creed is a little loose and doesn't provide much closure at the end 
 of the game. the constant talking in the game is one of its downfalls along with the repetitiveness 
 of each assassination, the main objective of each mission is always the same and is only forgiven 
 because of the vast citys which are different for each assassination.
  
  if you have a 360 your missing out not having this in your collection, it will get repetitive in 
 the later parts of the game but all the good points more than out weigh that. if you haven't played 
 it, you really should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsdad
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Set in an era (the Crusades) that has only been an infrequent focus of game developers in the past, 
 Assassin's Creed breaks new ground not only in its setting but also in terms of both its next-gen 
 graphics and controls. The fighting system is unlike any other, with bonafide premiums placed on 
 timing and rhythm, in addition to a gratifying single-button based type of sword play. The visuals, 
 by virtue of your frequent position high above the city, are thrilling to experience first-hand 
 but are also breath-taking in third-person when sweeping cinematic sequences take over. While the 
 active fighting controls are pleasing to execute, the stealth elements represent yet another outstanding 
 aspect of this game... after all, you are an assassin, and Assassin's Creed allows you to perfect 
 the art of assassination with deft knifeplay in close (and undetected) quarters. For the most part 
 the AI represents a step-wise increase above previous action games, but can at times still be slightly 
 unrealistic. The only real problem with the game is its repetition in later chapters, but overall 
 Assassin's Creed is a unique and beautiful game that provides one of the most visually gratifying 
 experiences to be found on next-gen consoles to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PackersMax
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game that could have been wonderful. At first, the game looks amazing 
 with the astonishing graphics. The gameplay seems tough at first, but reveals to be intuitive after 
 one hour or so. The game has a great atmosphere that puts the player into the game as if he was 
 Al Thair himself. 
  
  However, the game is repetitive and the story line ends in a weak way to open the door for a sequel. 
 The actions the player attempt in Assassin's Creed are always the same: climb on high places, save 
 citizens, do little side missions to get information on how to kill the target (s) and kill him/them. 
 For some reasons, some people will dislike the game for this. I don't. Every game is repetitive 
 on a certain sense... so it's not about if a game is repetitive, it's about if the actions you 
 repeat fulfill your need of fun. In my case, this game was able to give me lot of fun. If there 
 is something that is certain, it is that the story line was okay... until the end of the game, 
 I will not give spoilers but... anyway you'll see it.
  
  In conclusion, some people will LOVE the game, some will call it overrated. It's all about how 
 we look at the game and if it fits in your kind of gameplay or not. It fit in mine, so that's why 
 Assassin's Creed earn a 9/10 in my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyeyescarr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AWESOME. You can run around where ever you want to the fighting is great the sound 
 affects are off the chain!!!! Gameplay is the best. There is nothing like stalking your enemy and 
 sneeking up behind him for the perfect kill right while he is standing there talking to all his 
 friends! Jumping from roof to roof is awesome the story is great there is nothing at all bad to 
 say about this game. The ending was sort of comfusing but thats not at all bad really i cant wait 
 for the next edition to come out!!!!!!!. There were also afew glitches here and there but no game 
 will be perfect. Over all i will advise anyone to play this game There could have been a few more 
 weapons.... I would have loved to have had a longbow a few times during the game. The world you 
 got to run around in was huge and VERY well detailed i mean the graphics where amazing. GET THE 
 GAME ITS GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ting0065
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics, the voice acting, the story, the combat, nearly everything. 
 
  The story for Assassins Creed was complex and kept me guessing right to the end. Though the assassinations 
 were rather repetetive they were still gallons of fun. The 3 cities felt like they were real with 
 packed streets, market salls, guards, houses and stunning character models.
  Altiar is a great leading characeter and his moves look great. It is a shame that his voice acting 
 is the weakest in all the game. 
  At the start of the game the combat is simple button mashing until Altiar learns his skills and 
 gains his wepons. 
  
  The story is split into 2 halves, one in the not so distant future of 2012 and the other during 
 the 3rd crusade. Despite the rather confusing ending the game leaves behind lots of questions itching 
 to be answered.
  
  Some of the game however was sort of disapointing like the poor ai. When fihgting one guard steps 
 up to fight you at a time. Quests to gain information are extreamly repetetive and there is hardly 
 any replay value.
  
  All in all Assassins Creed is a great game that everyone should play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsnasser
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  Graphics are outstanding. Control and feel are very good. Very immersive game play. The scenery 
 is very detailed. Artificial intelligence is excellent. I would highly recommend this game to gamers 
 that enjoy detailed 3d environments. kdsf jaskdf skad fjkdsaf jksa dfj kasd fask dfjkas dfkasdjf 
 ksad fkqi9w eurjakdn kafo fsadlfk afk asdf jsdfk ksdjf salkd fjweoi sda kfao sadkfl asdfj asdkfjksdafjlkas 
 fd sad f s df sdakfj sdlkf sdklfjsdo fsd f sdflk sdfk sdfkl sdfk sdfk sdfkds fjioioewu ikjasfdk 
 aksdjf dsa f sadkfjs fajskdf asdkf askdfj asdjfk sdkfj sd fj askdf skadfj ksad f iosa df asdk f 
 sdkf sdkjf sjkdf sdkjf iwe sdfkj kdsj f asdfjk sa kf ask f ksjdaf ke jio as fdk oasd f asdfkjf 
 lj sdklf; sd f sdfjkjafs dk asdkfj kasdfj ksf jksdajf ks dfjksd fjksd fjksdj fksdfjksd fjksda jfksadjf 
 ksadjf ksda fjkasdj fkasd jfkalsdfj askldfj kalsdfjioew jflkdsa fjkladsj fklasdj faks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was Ubisoft's big attempt at raking in gamer's hard earned money, and it actually 
 turned out to be a big success. (It can often be found for $40 on sale now; check Amazon. com or 
 Best Buy.) Unlike certain games released over the holiday (coughCoD4cough) AC stood out to me because 
 of its unique take on controlling the main character. That is, in AC you control your avatar, Altair, 
 more like a marionette than a game character. I'm sure you've all heard plenty about the finer 
 parts of the unique control scheme by now though, so I'll skip ahead a little and say that it doesn't 
 always work properly. This is the most frustrating part of AC. Sometimes you'll be climbing a wall, 
 and there will be a totally obvious handhold sitting right next to/above Altair, and you'll press 
 the control stick in that direction only to have Altair stare quizically in that direction, as 
 if thinking "man, I wish there were some way I could grab that handhold." Less often, I would approach 
 the edge of the building in order to look over the edge and Altair would simply jump off the edge 
 and die. This has only happened twice in about six hours of gameplay, but it sure was annoying 
 when it did happen. 
  
  Oh, and falling into water is an instant death. Take a moment to let that sink in. This man is 
 an elite assassin, capable of taking down multiple enemies without batting an eyelash. Push him 
 into the deep end of a pool, though, and he'll flail uselessly before drowning. Honestly, you'd 
 think that somewhere on the path to becoming an elite assassin, one would learn to doggy paddle.
 
  
  My final complaint with Assassin's Creed is in the nature of its gameplay. In order to beat the 
 game, you'll need to take down nine targets, and in order to get to those targets you'll need to 
 do a few investigation missions. These short missions are virtually the same from mission to mission, 
 but as mentioned they are short so repetition shouldn't start to set in until later on in the game. 
 It is sad, though, to see the once thrilling act of climbing to the highest point in a city turn 
 tedious by the last few levels. 
  
  Now that I've gotten all of my problems with AC out of the way, I have to say that it manages to 
 easily overcome these shortcomings. Everything else in AC is simply brilliant. The story is intriguing, 
 but it doesn't play a huge role in the game as it does in, say, Mass Effect. This suits the game's 
 action/adventure style very well, as the story will always keep you going, but you will never get 
 hung up trying to decipher certain parts of it. I won't go into the story much more in order to 
 not spoil the "plot twist" in the beginning (for the three of you who haven't already heard it.) 
 
  
  When not accidentally falling to your death, the controls are very satisfying to master. Altair 
 is an uber acrobatic character, but most of his moves are still within the realm of possibility. 
 The only one that isn't is the "leap of faith." Using this mechanic, you can jump from the tallest 
 building in the world and land unscathed so long as you aim your jump into a tiny pile of hay. 
 It's funny, but also thrilling. Simply put, I haven't had this much fun just exploring since Crackdown.
 
  
  Combat is largely reaction based, and you will be able to kill most of your enemies with well-timed 
 counters. Targeting can be a little finicky, but 9/10 times it doesn't impact the flow of battle 
 in any way. 
  
  Both the graphics and sound of Assassin's Creed are some of the best seen this generation. It is 
 possible to look out across the entirety of an amazingly detailed cityscape and not see a single 
 instance of pop-in. In addition, all of the handholds in the cities are entirely natural looking; 
 they never seem out of place. The streets are bustling with activity. Soldiers scan the area for 
 criminals, vendors sell their goods in the markets, crowds gather around preachers on church steps, 
 beggars will intercept you on your path and beg for money, and more. And all of these citizens 
 will react realistically to your actions. If you've just murdered someone, you had better get out 
 of there and blend into the crowd quickly, or else you could end up on the business end of a sword. 
 If you murder someone and then start sprinting, the chase is on. The crowd dynamics are all very 
 impressive, and its good to know that Ubisoft is implementing similar mechanics in upcoming games 
 (the great looking Splinter Cell Conviction.) The soldier AI, while impressive at times, is also 
 kind of laughable. Soldiers are capable of figuring out your true intentions based on your actions, 
 as well as following you across rooftops during stunning (and nonscripted) rooftop chase scenes, 
 but yet if you run behind a soldier and jump into a bail of hay, half the time they'll have no 
 idea where you went. I'm beginning to think that the hay in medeivel times had some sort of magical 
 properties. 
  
  Sound effects are all great, too. Voiceovers are very well done, down to the very smallest of roles. 
 The city is appropriately busy-sounding.
  
  In conclusion, Assassin's Creed is an excellently crafted action/adventure game that I will surely 
 invest enough time in to get all 1000 gamerscore. It's repetitive nature may turn some off initially, 
 but it's really baffling to see anyone give this game a low review score. It's one of the next 
 gen's best. Kudos, Ubisoft.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10-No pop up, everything looks stunning. Very mild clipping lowers the score a bit.
 
  Sound: 9.5/10-It all sounds very realistic.
  Gameplay: 9/10-Sometimes finicky controls, but everything is also very fun.
  Value: 8.5/10-Repitition 
 may set in later on in the game, but side quests such as collecting hidden flags in the different 
 cities and killing all of the powerful Templars in the game add value. Plus, the goof-off potential 
 of this game is pretty high. Jumping your horse across rooftops is hilarious.
  Overall: 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  ok the graphics are great, the sound is ok every thing is good expect your guys voice and the same 
 overused repetitive nosies from fighting, jumping around killing guards is pretty fun for a while 
 but it gets boring fast, not to mention you cant go full speed while riding on your horse without 
 a guard attacking you and you alert wont stop making an obnoxious blinking warning noise unless 
 you kill them or run to a hiding spot which is tedious and takes away from the overall gameplay, 
 the best of the game elements are way too over used and the game is also, running from mission 
 2 mission killing a couple people gets boring after the first hour, or you can do all the side quests 
 which are also immensely boring. cat dog log frog bob jack jill hill candle cloud nine six skate 
 gun pirates black pearl babe boob no nits **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend earlier this week and I have been playing it for the past 3 
 days. Having read the reviews here before I got it, I was expecting it to be a really bad game, 
 everybody saying it was extremely repetative.
  
  Anyway so I started playing this game with low expectations so obviously, this game exceeded my 
 expectations but not by a lot.
  
  Ok, I agree this game is slightly repetitive but ask yourself, what game is not repetitive these 
 days. I find this game just as repetitive as Devil may cry 4. So It actually doesnt bother me as 
 much as others that this game requiers a lot of the same things to be done over and over because 
 its fun to do.
  
  Graphics are probably the best I have ever seen in a video game. Some of the combat moves are kinda 
 cool. Climbing up buildings and jumping across rooftops is probably the most fun thing to do.
 
  Yea its a bit repetative, but if you play it few hours at a time, its not as bad as it looks.
 
  
  I would say at least give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comfnumb82
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  I have a feeling i'm going to step on a few toes with this one, since all the major gaming sites 
 act like this is the greatest thing since sliced bread, but to quote george carlin, even a lava 
 lamp is better than sliced bread. Before you jump down my throat, this is by no mean a horrible 
 game, there are FAR worse games than this. Through the most part, this is actualy a pretty good 
 game, a little monotonous with all the walking required, but that what you expect with stealth 
 action games like this. Some of the elements are just annoying, as opposed to adding to the chalange. 
 i LOVE a good chalange in a game, but what i don't like is being repeatadly shoved by a lepper 
 when i get close, or having a begger runn in front of me begging for coins. It's not chalangeing, 
 it's just annoying. That being said, the stealth kills are fun, the fighting system is interesting, 
 and the story is interesting enough to keep you playing. In my opinion, however, i feel that this 
 game is good for one playthrough and for a few acheivements. So i say rent it and try it out. You 
 may agree, or you may think i'm full of it. the point is you should try to make up your own mind. 
 i'm only giving my opinion. On a final note, i don't know if it's supposed to happen, but the one 
 i played towards the end of the game, my character fell through the ground. not as a trap....... but 
 he fell through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman501
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  This game is like a virtual tour of the 3 cities Damascus, Acre & Jerusalem and Altair being the 
 tour guide. The actual game (What game) is not really good its like the game designers are trying 
 to impress us with all the visuals rather then giving a game that is fun to play.
  
  Graphics:9/10 OK the graphics are great but a game is played because its supposed to be fun not 
 to sit back and admire.
  
  Playability: Whoever rates the game highly according to its game play must have never played ghost 
 n ghoblins and street figher 2 etc they are cartoony yet alot more fun then this game. 
  
  The assassinations are pathetic no stealth required at all just walk up to the target kill anyone 
 in your way and thats it and even if half the army is chasing you its easy to run past them. The 
 fighting my 4 year old daughter can can keep killing any soldiers that come along due to the counter 
 attack move. Also the way the enemy soldiers surround you and attack one by one and watch each 
 other get slaughtered come on how unrealistic is that.
  
  Had they put in half the time they spent on the visuals for the game play I'm sure it would have 
 been a much better game but I think there main aim was for us to look at it and say wow how good 
 does this look and thats it.
  
  I hope the game play in the sequel is much better and the visuals stay the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKillKittens
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  First off if you don't already own it go out and buy this game. It's visually amazing and has a 
 deep entertaining storline, you'll always want to know what's happening next. 
  
  Graphics: The game is visually outstanding, the graphics alone could sell the game. Graphic wise 
 it's a perfect example of what the 360 is capable of. Not all of the facial expressions are up 
 to par and there are a couple of minor glitches within the game but not enough to ruin the experience 
 for you. Some of the peasants seem a little more dumbed down than say the guards and figures of 
 importance throughout the game. The Structure scaling is also very well done, the sizes of the 
 buildings are all proper for what they are (such as castles being big n such) .
  
  Sound: This games sound is phenominal, all the voice acting was done very well except for Altair 
 I'm not saying it isn't good but it seems out of place I'd say that the beggars and guards sound 
 more convincing than him, though if you know Altair he speaks more through actions and less through 
 words. The fighting sounds in the game sound very believable it's all done very well and timed 
 just right when two swords hit you hear the sound at the exact point of impact.
  
  Gameplay: There is only one downside to gameplay and that is that it gets repetitive, Saving citizens 
 and scaling view points are always the same, the only mix they throw in is later on in the game, 
 they throw in beggars and drunks to shove you out of the way of your target or into the guards 
 causing you to fail your current task such as stealth assassinations performed for the informers. 
 You'll find that later in the game these people will become more of an issue than evading the guards. 
 The use of vigilantes is pretty cool and make the fights and escapes alot easier. The button setup 
 is very simple, use the button for the corresponding body part. Scaling buildings is also easy 
 and enjoyable though keep an eye out for where you're climbing while being chased, if you're too 
 slow guards will throw rocks at you causing you to fall. I think they could've put more variety 
 in hiding spots, They have Hay bundles, sky gardens, benches, and scholars that's it. I don't know 
 what happened to hiding behind a building, I guess that was just too simple to put in the game.
 
  
  Story: The story is simply amazing, unlike any I've seen before. The game being set in the future 
 and the past offers up two unique storylines. This game covers the crusades better than any game 
 you'll ever see. There are alot of elements regarding religion, philosophy and psychology. Each 
 person is unique in their own way even Altair though hes the one with the least personality. If 
 you simply run through the game quickly for the dialogues I don't think you'll be dissapointed. 
 SPOILER: Of course the game's ending did piss me off, they locate the pieces of Eden and it turns 
 out Lucy is an assassin then vidic and lucy leave, you discover you have eagle vision find different 
 markings throughout the building and it ends. Yay for cliffhangers.
  
  My Conclusion: This game is definately a buy, The deep storyline, graphics, and audio keep you 
 begging for more. Though the gameplay leaves alot to be desired I'm sure by the time Assassins 
 Creed 2 comes out they'll find some ways to make it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The best graphics seen in any game so far, superb story and voice acting, simple yet 
 satisfying combat, great free-running engine, crowd AI works
  
  The Bad: The game doesn't have an ending (as in it just ends) , gets repetitive after awhile
  
 
  The first thing I want to say is that the game is getting such low scores due to the game being 
 so repetitive. The game consists of constant information gathering by helping your fellow assassin 
 informers either assassinate targets or collect flags, pickpocket people, interrogate people, climb 
 up on high points to "synchronize" your memory (more on that later) , saving citizens from the guards 
 heresy and so on. To me this didn't get repetitive because everything is free form and unscripted. 
 The game consists of connecting cities and in each city you can free-fun and climb ANY building 
 and ANY wall. That's right, no looking for glowing ledges or vines just run and run like a mad 
 man to run from guards (you have to loose their line of sight and hide in either a scholar crowd, 
 a bench, stacks of hay etc.) The story is very interesting. In the "real world" you play Desmond 
 Miles who is captured to due a government experiment to use his ancestors DNA in his blood to change 
 the past. You get put on a machine called the Animus and you must go back to 1191 B. C. and play 
 as Altair who is Miles' ancestor. You must stop the crusades and the Templars. Along the way there 
 are great plot twists and this keeps the story fresh. The voice acting is superb and even has some 
 great humor. The combat system is awesome, while it's simple it's still very satisfying with great 
 animations. The graphics are the best EVER seen in a next-gen game with tons of detail and depth 
 in every blade of grass and stitch in every piece of clothing. The game is breath taking (especially 
 on HDTVs) . The game's main attraction is the crowd AI where if you run through a crowd you'll stumble 
 and fall and the people will call for guards. This determines whether the people help you escape 
 and hide or hinder you. The only frustrating thing about the game is that the game doesn't want 
 to respond too well when running from guards. Other than that this is one of the best games I've 
 ever played and you're bound to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwner372
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a masterpiece. It has an epic story. The game has a good moral base, as in if 
 you kill a civilian you will lose health. As you complete more assassinations, the guards become 
 more alert to you. The free running mechanics are top notch. The open ended environment really 
 helps the game. You can choose which assassinations to do in which order. You can choose how to 
 complete the assassinations, stealthily or high profile (as in everyone notices you) . The assassination 
 battles have facing off against 20-30 foes sometimes. The counter attacks in the game are marvellously 
 done. The only problem with the game is that it is a little bit repetitive. All the missions you 
 do to get info are all the same. You pickpocket, interrogate, eavesdrop, or do odd jobs for informants. Other 
 than that, it is great. If you want a good stealth/action game, this is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minhaz123456789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  OMG this game was absolutely amazing, especially the ending. Soooooooooooooooooo much killing. 
 It was sooo worth it. You can hide, run around, kill whenever you want, jump from one place to 
 another. What more can we ask for? The graphics are amazing, the game-play is flawless, movements, 
 view the story, and everything else was just WOW. You can Hide from anyone pretty much whenever 
 you want to. Throw knives, sneak attack, strong attack, sit on a bennch, and most importantly tackle 
 anyone. On the bad end of the game, it was the same thing over and over again. you hear people 
 saying the same thing. 2 different ladies come up to you and almost blow your cover throughout 
 the whole game. "Mentally challanged" ones hit you and blow your cover as well when you are trying 
 to hide or something. But the only thing that was very confusing to me was that every single person 
 in the game had a middle eastern accent, but the main character surprisingly didn't have any accent. 
 How weird is that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  Ok peoples first if you own a PS3 or Xbox 360 GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME RIGHT NOW!!!! Its a really 
 nice game I promise and if you're disappointed then you're just expecting too much, I mean jeez 
 its a game not a time portal. Its a nice addition to your collection of video games totally worth 
 your time with a very nice and thought out story and stellar graphical presentation. Assassins 
 Creed is definitely eye candy and its fun well for me at least. (Killing peasants is very fun for 
 me idk y it just is) Bah i dont even know where to start so we'll do it the old fashion way.
  
  Graphics:
  Lovely though face animation isn't perfect but still very good, keeps game flowing 
 smoothly without the feeling that everything is out of place. The Crusades have never seem so real 
 for me. The moment i stepped into the city i felt like i was in a tour across the holy land of 
 course i would never climb buildings and assassinate guards and murder those damn beggars and addicts 
 that keep annoying me IN EVERY FREAKING TOWN but whats a city without those people (a clean city 
 btw) To be honest tho there are some minor glitches but thats because i probably wore out the game 
 disc or something but anyway most of the glitches u experience are forgivable given the large content 
 within the game. Architecture is simply beautiful tho i could care less after having to climb 30 
 towers. (We'll get to that later) If you look closely enough you might notice the figure of some 
 of the peasants and lesser ones are not so finesse though it still not enough to even smear the 
 contents of Assassins Creed. 
  
  Sound:
  What can i say they've really done a good job with this title. Everything sounds believable and 
 true merchants, those freaking beggars, the grunts of the guards and their death cries. (trust 
 when you leave a guard crying for his life it will be glorious) Voice acting is phenomenal. The 
 scientists sound like scientists, The guys during the Crusades sound like they speak better English 
 than i can type and then some. All acting is believable on par with even the greatest holly wood 
 videos. Though i must say Altair (main Assassin guy) is the only that seems he doesn't fit in. 
 His voice acting might be the worst but that doesnt mean he its anything close to bad. His personality 
 is still displayed through everything he does even during gameplay but the merchants sound better 
 than him and THAT STUPID BEGGAR. I must say the voice acting really makes this title a great addition 
 to the gaming industry. 
  
  Gameplay:
  I like don't know about others though, they might disagree. Basically what you see in the trailer 
 is what you get. Nice assassinations, cool chases, build climbing and hopping, slow but still enjoyable 
 combat system (hurray for counter kills) and killing is just really really fun for both guards 
 and civilians. (idk maybe i have some sick enjoyment for a menace in society) Though some things 
 do get old rather quickly most notably the build climbing. Its nice that i can but i just dont 
 want to have to do it in order to complete menial task. Building climbing is only good if you WANT 
 to do it such as running away or u just wanna get on the roof to idk throw a guard of a high building 
 and watch as everyone down below panics. But there are these towers that you climb in order to 
 get the most outta the city and their nice but i would have enjoyed it more if there were less 
 of them. Basically i spend most of my time scaling these really tall towers. O i almost forgot 
 the stealth element. Very unique and classic. I played many stealth games but Assassins Creed is 
 definitely something that stands out in that genre. Stealth is but one strategy u can use to complete 
 the mission or u can just run around swing ur blade at every guard in the target area though i 
 prefer stealth (its less work and some of the guards don't play nice) There are many elements which 
 i cant even fully explain since its so open ended and free.
  
  Story: 
  Bah dare I say it, It's One of the Best. Plot is pretty simple go around take out a few targeted 
 guys go back home but what happens in between is just something to enjoy. The greatest combination 
 of History and Sci Fi with a twist and a lot of reference. Many people didn't enjoy it because 
 it had a complicated story line but if you think the story line was confusing then pick up a book 
 and FREAKING READ IT!!! Theres a lot of elements regarding religion, philosophy and psychology. 
 Each person is unique in their own way even Altair though hes the one with the least personality. 
 If you just browse through the game to hear the story then im pretty sure u will be plenty happy 
 and waiting for more. And just a minor Spoiler THERES A FREAKING CLIFF HANGER!! Why do they have 
 those in games? Games dont come out that fast especially good games so why would you keep my waiting 
 so long? Damn you Assassins Creed people
  
  Conclusion:
  Buy the game stupid y are u still reading what im typing? Go out and get the game from your game 
 shop crack addict guy or whatever, Ebay it actually dont ebay it shipping takes too long go to 
 your friend that has this game and tell him to forgive you for stealing his Assassins Creed and 
 if he doesnt have Assassins Creed dont be friends with him just tell him to play with himself
 
  
  9.0!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Honestly its that good unlike those sons of b*tches that gave it a 6.0 dont no 
 whats riding up their hole 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero5link
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I like this game very much. It's something new, innovative, and overall interesting and awsome 
 to play. It has a very good tone for the game and very good visuals. The gameplay is also a very 
 new type of play. It's also interesting how the controls work, and it's still good. I love the 
 atmosphere of the game and the way it presents itself. The sci-fi twist is also weird but good 
 in a way. The Graphics are top notch. This game blows all the other games that I have played out 
 of the water with it amazing visuals. I also love the story line, because of the Events that hapen 
 and the ending is very good, but a very big cliffhanger. Overall this is a great game and you should 
 pick it up, but a warning, theres not TO much replay value here, but in a few months you'll pick 
 it up and enjoy it all over again.
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics-10/10
  Gameplay-10/10
  Control-9/10
  Playability-8/10
  Originality-10/10
  
  Overall-9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Shadow-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I love games like Zelda, Grand Theft auto, Prince of Persia, so I thought this game would be the 
 ultimate combination of what made those games great. Although it is a visually pleasing game, it 
 just didn't meet my expectations. I should rented it before i bought.
  
  Pros:
  -Visually beautiful
  -Unique, and precise control scheme
  -Feels like your in the game
  
 
  Cons:
  -Horrible story
  -Dangerously repetitious
  -No multi-player
  
  ----------------------------------
  
  Gameplay: 3/5
  running around, killing people, stealing, 
 eavesdropping, climbing buildings, how can this NOT be fun!? It's very fun... and it's very smooth. 
 Battles are beautiful and very creative. The down side is that it gets so repetitious, that you 
 don't want to kill random people anymore. Does not gave a grand theft auto feeling in terms of 
 sandbox games
  
  Difficulty: 3/5
  30min-60min learning curve. As soon as you get used to the mechanics you will be professional assassin. 
 
  
  Visuals: 4/5
  The graphics are amazing. It definitely shows the true power of the 360. However, alot of the characters 
 and building in the game look copy and pasted throughout the entire world. 
  
  Story 2/5
  This was my biggest disappointment. Although there is a story involved, it's very confusing and 
 not very entertaining. Don't get this game for it's story.
  
  Sound: 4/5
  Everything sounded great. Kills, music, it seems like they put alot of attention to the small details 
 in terms of sound.
  
  Controls: 5/5
  Just works! Gow games should play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is amazing and one the most fun ive ever played the kills are awesome and 
 so are the sword fights. There are so many things to do. But of course there is a bad it gets repetitive 
 and boring after you beat the game and even before. The last mission is a shock is youre slow.
 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are the best ive ever seen. Im serious the detail is amazing and how the city 
 models look excactly how they looked. The characters are amazing too. The horses also look good 
 but dont look anything like the top notch graphics this game hasOverall most things in this game 
 are good.
  
  Value: I got even more than what i payed for it. I payed $50 and got a game worth $55. While this 
 games graphics are the best the gameplay is repetitive and sometimes boring so i would defenitly 
 give this game a 9.4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Beatz-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an Action-Adventure game for the Xbox 360, PS3 and soon for the PC. It talks 
 about Altair, an assassin, who lost his status, because he failed on a mission, and let his team 
 die. To reclaim his status, he must kill 9 important persons. In the game, you go to 4 cities, 
 if you can call Masyaf a city, it's more like a village, and in each of the cities you must learn 
 something about the one you're about to assassinate, by pickpocketing people, eavesdropping on 
 conversations, and when that's done, you go to the Assassin's Bureau, and consult with the local 
 man their. Then you go assassinate your target, and so complete every 3 cities' (Damascus, Acre 
 and Jerusalem) 3 districts, which are the Poor, Middle and Rich district. So the game can be pretty 
 repetitive , since you visit only 3 cities. The gameplay is good, with all the sneakiness and killing 
 people. I so love sneaking up to a person and putting a hidden blade to his throat. Sometimes in 
 combat, happens things, like when you try to throw someone away to kill them with the hidden blade 
 while they lie, because they block your hidden blade, when they're alarmed, then Altair jumps on 
 some random boxes or ledges nearby. I don't know how developers can change that, but it's pretty 
 much the thing I sometimes just hit my controller and go RAAGE! :D Otherwise the game is cool. 
 Anyways, a good game. I recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Riding on a horse toward Damascus, I stop just before a cliff and overlook the entire city. When 
 looking at this spectacular city i say to myself "Now this is next-gen" knowing I can walk those 
 streets, climb those buildings using every little ridge to get to the top blew me away.
  
  Now for the Review.
  
  
  
  Assassin's Creed brings you to become an Assassin in a secret 
 organization sent out to murder those whom who are asked to kill. Sound cliche? trust me, its not.
 
  
  Every city feels like its alive, with people walking to get to their destination, as well as them 
 reacting to your every move, whether it be to push them aside, or kill the guard in the middle 
 of the crowd. 
  
  Side missions are completed in order to gain information on your target every time you enter a 
 city, though they can become repetitive SOMEtimes, you wont mind doing them, and you don't have 
 to completely do them all in order to get achievements. 
  
  If your wondering whether or not this is a sandbox game well, its 50/50. Sure you can roam anywhere 
 you want in the city, or outside them in the zone called "kingdom". You can really do what you 
 want when you want, and it isn't bad when your exploring the Kingdom, but its somewhat restricted. 
 
  
  Once you pick up this game, you wont want to put it down, heck, you may even find yourself trying 
 to find a costume and then walking in a crowded area to "playfully" assassinate someone, though 
 i wouldn't recommend the assassinate part unless its a friend.
  
  All in all, the work put into this game will truly shine when played, its so much detail that honestly 
 must've taken years to make. Assassin's Creed is a definite buy, and you'll end up playing it over 
 and over when your in that mood.
  
  
  Now, go assassinate somebody,
  
  would you kindly? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badass_jr_2k7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  The ideas here are awesome but arent implemented as well as they could be. Only hardcore Gamerscore 
 whores are going to b bothered with all the flags but u will come back for more. the free running 
 is amazing and the story would have been good except for the clich. if u liked PoP then get this 
 even if only for the free running, and dont be put off by the lengthy intro chapter. buy this game. 
 r o f l m f a o. ps lol. o yeah the fighting is fun wen u get the hang of the counter system b 
 a d a s s j r 2 k 7 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutter9792
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short, and to the point.
  .......
  ................
  I see all you gamers out there smirking at the above statement.
  You should all be ashamed of 
 yourselves.
  GET YOUR MIND OUT OF THE GUTTER!!!!111!!
  
  What?
  Oh! Right, the game.
  
  Assassin's Creed has a great level of immersion and playability, but some things bog down the 
 experience. Not being able to skip cutscenes the second time through is one. No subtitles is another. 
 Occasional glitches is another big one. Oh, and some of the architecture seems kind of.... obvious 
 (why is the a haystack at the bottom of all tall building?) . Still, a fun and immersive experience, 
 if you can get past the minimal shortcomings.
  
  (the last few sentences are for the remaining 100 words i need to fill in.)
  blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basserker
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  This game when it was coming out looked amazing. So when I got it I had hopes of it being great. 
 These hopes were shattered. The game is incredibly boring and repetitive. About half way through 
 you can figure out how the game is going to end. And theres these puzzles about where you are as 
 Desmond who has to go into the Animus and look at his memories of his ancestors in it. When you 
 beat it just start over becuz theres nothing to do besides roam around and when you do that its 
 not any fun. Also, Having to kill people over and over and over and over is boring. but it gets 
 worse. You have to find things out about these people and its usually the same way like Eavesdrop 
 or pickpocket or beat up some guy in a backalley way. the only fun thing to do is kill guards and 
 get a bunch of them to chase after you but even that gets boring in this game. Not a good game. 
 Not a very good game at all. Save your money -.- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwcmhb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a gorgeous game and tons of fun. The first thing you'll notice is the stellar 
 graphics. The lighting, atmosphere, and fluid animations certainly emerse you into a world that 
 hasn't been truley represented in next-gen gaming. The engine does a great job of fluidly shifting 
 gears from action to steath. One minute you're sitting on a bench listening to other NPC's conversations 
 to unsheathing you're sword and slicing through enemies with surgical precision. All the things 
 that make this game great are unfortunatly the same reason why this game might not appeal to some. 
 First of all, this game requires patience. You must have the dicipline to complete many stealth 
 type objectives that can turn off the more blood lust crazy gamers. Now let's talk about repitition. 
 Repitition has been a big complaint in regards to Assassin's Creed. This is actually the gamers 
 fault! Okay... okay... calm down, let me explain. There are so many different ways to approach similar 
 objectives in the game, but the problem is: when most gamers find a way to complete an objective 
 they tend to set their diffault switch to only that technique and truly limit themselves from enjoying 
 the full experience Assassins Creed has to offer. Lastly, the combat system. Listen up, this is 
 very important. **Button Smasher Need Not Apply!** Any true assassin will tell you; it's all about 
 the Timing. The same goes for this game. Button timing unlocks the most fluid killing animations 
 ever seen to date, but if you find it hard to clap your hands to the beat of "Row, Row, Row your 
 boat", don't waste your money. In conclusion, this is a must have title for the more tactical gamer 
 with an appetite for a mix of action/stratedgy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlars6
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  What could have been a fabulous game gets tanked again by poor execution. Over and over again these 
 days games are being released with great visuals BUT with absolutely mediocre stories and tedious, 
 repetitive gameplay. It's 2008 already! It can be done! Why does everyone keep falling for the 
 hype??? See IGN's review as an example of a realistic (not hyped) response to this game... "A bad 
 story, repetitive gameplay elements, and poor AI lead to the downfall of one of the more promising 
 games in recent memory." Just like the new release of Halo, the game developers must be figuring 
 they can continue to get away with putting all their effort into the visuals (and let's face it 
 - these days that's the easy part) and doing almost nothing for the story and game experience. 
 And why do they get away with it?.... because we let them get away with it! When every release 
 has gamers jumping up and down at the sight of dazzling images and motion, we allow developers 
 to just keep making mediocre games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  With smooth gameplay and amazing visuals, this game is proven to be a action-packed result for 
 all Xbox 360 owners. The crowded towns is amazing with highly realistic citizens roaming around. 
 The graphics of this game is stunning, with fantastic lighting effects and character expressions. 
 The gameplay is worthwhile, where one can pickpocket, eavesdrop and do numerous other things. The 
 speedy and action-packed fighting is an extremely fun experience, where one can use different weapons 
 and various moves to battle down his opponents.
  Besides the good points, the major flaw of this game is it's highly repetitive value, where the 
 same missions are repeated over and over again. But besides this, Assasin's Creed promises a solid 
 and extremely fun experience.
  All in all, Assassin's Creed proves to be an interesting experience for many 360 owners.
  
 
  
  ~ Pro's ~
  - Extremely fun environment with large space to roam -
  - Numerous moves to learn with continuous progress -
  - Amazing visuals and graphics -
  
 
  ~ Con's ~
  - Highly repetitive value lowers the game's potential -
  - Quite straight-forward -
  - Unusual and confusing ending -
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  This game where can i start, well it sucks thats all i can say but not generally at first i loved 
 this game but ITS SO GODDAM REPETETIVE!
  and we all know how annoying that is, because at first this game playes smoothly and is excellent 
 but the lowdown
  
  Story: bad
  gameplay: ok
  weapons: ok
  overall: bad
  
  well there you go and the enemies are stupid aswell as i just jumped down from a roof and they 
 shouted "AN ASSASIN!" i mean i couldve been anything and they pick an assasin i couldve been a 
 free runner for gods sake. and the ai is dumb you do anything and they try to ill you and when 
 you go to assasinate a target you have to go in all weapons blazing as whenever you try to be stealthy 
 you get spotted by someone i got spotted through a wall once!
  This game is overall a complete load of rubbish and i dont see why gamespot gave it a good score 
 you need to wake up gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padawon2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I was impressed by this amazing action-adventure game. But it got gay at memory block 4, incredibly 
 repeptitive and i had to tell myself "u gotta beat it man" when i got to the last level it was 
 glitchier than anything i fell through ground, crowds appeared then disappeared, and the weirdest 
 one was that Altair had a twin. Yes he did exaclty wat i did but when i assassinated him i died. 
 Pick this game up and hope yours isnt glitched as frick. Assassintating is fun tho, and stalking 
 n! gs is fun 2, also when you have these cool comments like after he beats information from peeps, 
 your like wo hey that was me!! not really but its decent and the character is pretty cool. There 
 are twists in the game, and im sure everyone has written about this, the skydivin g is fun there 
 was this huge building i forgot where it was, but it was huge, i jumped and stood in a front flip 
 position for 5 seconds prolly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I love this game and the unknown potential of a future sequel/s keep me intrigued but in the long 
 run it's just too simplistic for all it's potential. This game is groundbreaking in environments, 
 mechanics, and storyline and a joy to play but after finishing it one quickly realizes that the 
 gameplay is just too oversimplified for all it's ambition. The story is smart and intriguing and 
 keeps one hooked and hungry for more but outside of the main objectives there really isn't much 
 to do for such a huge and beautiful world. There are absolutely no in-game rewards for collecting 
 flags (the ONLY replay objective) and you're left with a feeling that there could have been so 
 much more! Ubisoft could have at least added some alternate costumes and/or weapons as motives 
 for replay (or in the case of alternate costumes, for the main campaign!) For all the time spent 
 in development the game still feels lacking in small details that could have really fleshed out 
 the game (again, alternate costumes to add to the reality of going unnoticed in the crowd.) I would 
 highly recommend this game to any X360 or PS3 owner who appreciates the Ubisoft franchises, Prince 
 of Persia and Splinter Cell. This game is an amazing achievement and the small problems will most 
 likely be remedied in the sequel/s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvfosurvialhor
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing, as are walking through towns and gentle pushing people to make your way through 
 crowds. The environment is also nice.. but once you get past the awe factor, you're left in a game 
 that's just not much fun and starts to feel generic. Missions are boring, and guards are alerted 
 if you don't walk or ride your horse at a snail's pace... If you jog past guards just chilling 
 on the side of a road, not even in a town, they try to kill you, cuz obviously only assassins jog. 
 They make it seem like you can do everything and go everywhere.. but truth is you'll find there's 
 really not much to do in the game.. it's always the same stuff.. rescue a random civilian, pickpocket 
 or sit on a bench and spy on a predetermined person. This game is a perfect example of how graphics 
 don't make a game. Lot of work was put into this game's graphics and realism, but they just didn't 
 get the gameplay quite right. Rent the game and play it for 2-3 hours and see it for yourself.. 
 you may save yourself 60 bucks on a game that has little to no replay value, and low fun factor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  "Assassin's Creed" might've disappointed some with it's huge, beautiful worlds with little to do. 
 But if you weren't expecting a "Grand Theft Auto"-like game, than you'll probably appreciate the 
 game to the fullest. This is more like "Hitman" meets "Shadow of the Colossus" with a bit of "Prince 
 of Persia" thrown in when it comes to game terms. As far as movies go, the plot of "Assassin's 
 Creed" is a mix of "Kingdom of Heaven" and "The Matrix". An odd blend, but it works well thanks 
 to the intriguing storyline.
  
  The only weak link is the voice of the main character Altair. Ubi Soft Montreal made the mistake 
 before by casting an American voice actor in the role of the Prince for "Prince of Persia: Warrior 
 Within" and they sadfully repeated it again. However, it's not as bad as it could've been.
  
  Gameplay wise, "Creed" is a joy to play. The fighting sequences are fluid and beautiful to 
 watch, the open-cities have been beautifully created and the missions are fun. Unfortunately, the 
 360 version suffers from lots of pop-in, some screen tearing and occassional dips in the framerate. 
 A shame, but the actual graphics are quite beautiful. The animation and lighting are particularly 
 stunning.
  
  Overall, this is a great game and I'm sure the sequel will be even better. Not quite four stars 
 (I'd give it 3 and a 1/2) but still a terrific entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hedgyness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  It is always nice to see a very unique game such as this one released but also play fantastically. 
 Right off the bat you notice just how detailed and graphically impressive the game is. The controls 
 are easy to pick up and play thanks to simple controls and a helpful button layout in the top right 
 corner.
  
  In Assassin's Creed you are a man named Desmond that has been kidnapped and is forced into a machine 
 called the animus so that he can look into his ancestor's memories, in the animus where the main 
 game takes place you play as the respected assassin Altair but when a mission goes terribly wrong 
 he is stripped of his rank and most his weapons. To redeem himself and his honour he has to kill 
 nine high profile targets scattered between the cities Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem. As the game 
 progresses you discover more of what is happening and expect a few twists along the way.
  
  First lets look at the presentation and settings of Assassin's Creed, and only one word comes to 
 mind, "Wow". The locations are huge and still retain incredible detail. The crowded streets are 
 alive with dozens of civilians that aren't simply clones. As you stand on a rooftop you hear merchants 
 shouting, people arguing, guards harassing citizens and beggars being... beggars. The cities feel 
 alive and accurate to how they should of been allowing you to immerse in a believable environment 
 that adds that extra bit of charm to the game.
  
  But of course a game cannot simply rely on impressive graphics and environments, the big factors 
 are mechanics, controls and gameplay. Again the word used is "Wow", as Altair you are able to leap 
 across beams and rooftops with ease and scale huge towers by simply holding up. Yet the acrobatics 
 aren't so over the top that they become unbelievable which adds another sense of realism. The combat 
 in Assassin's Creed is simple but very effective and a joy, Altair has 3 weapons at his disposal, 
 a long sword, a short sword that doubles as throwing knives at long range and the hidden blade 
 for assassinating targets, as well as his fists which are used really only for interrogation missions. 
 The animations of the counters are detailed, fun and best of all gory, one counter with a long 
 sword has you break the enemy's arm, with a satisfying snap of the bone, and then slice them across 
 the chest.
  
  However a bad point is that the AI is not very intelligent, the guards are supposed to go alert 
 if you perform "non-socially excepted" acts such as sprinting through crowds, scaling buildings 
 or pickpocketing enemies. But they only seem to react if you attack people or directly disrupt 
 them.
  
  When you are being chased by guards you have a choice, stay and fight or run and hide once you 
 are out of sight. This is really up the the players gaming style and does not really matter which 
 option you choose. 
  
  Lets go more into the missions and assassinations, when you start in a city most of the map is 
 blured and you need to climb up special high structures to reveal more, which with Altair's impressive 
 acrobatic abilities is as easy as holding up on the analog stick. Once you reveal sections of the 
 map you can see two types of missions. 
  Investigation, which come in the form of Informant, Pickpocket, Eavesdrop and Interrogate, these 
 help you gather info about your assassination target and are directly linked with the main plot 
 line. Then there are the side missions, which are basically save the citizen from a couple of harassing 
 guards, these are not required in the main story line and can be ignored altogether if you aren't 
 interested in the achievement points.
  
  Once you have gathered enough intel you are ready to take out your target, the target does not 
 move from one area unlike Hitman, this does not make it any easier however since their position 
 is heavily guarded by archers, henchman and troops that will attack at the first sight of odd behavior. 
 
  
  In a nutshell the story is immersive and interesting although the game does not last as long as 
 it should with an ending that is rather abrupt and disappointing. The combat and gameplay is fun 
 throughout due to lovely animations, and the missions are interesting even though the pre-assassination 
 missions do get rather repetitive. Assassin's Creed is a must have for action adventure fans, an 
 overall fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colnel-turtle
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited about this game ever since i saw the railer for it. I went to game stop and 
 pre ordered it and immediately started playing it when i got home. I didn't stop until i finished 
 the first memory blog that night.
  I finished this game about a week later. Mostly because i got all the flags and killed all the 
 templars. I also just enjoyed walking around the cities, for n reason. Climbing buildings was terrific 
 fun as well. I think that the spiderman games could learn from this. the story was solid and made 
 sense. the ending was a little creepy if u used your eagle vision to look at all the apocalyptic 
 drawings. I looked them up online and they were related to the mayan calendar end of the world 
 thing, and a bunch of weird stuff. If u took the time to read e-mails in the future it made sense 
 about what was going on in the present (september 2012 game time i believe)
  the game has terrific replay value and the visuals are outstanding! this game is perfect in every 
 way and i am still playing it.
  Ubisoft did very good and i cant wait for the sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is clearly one of the leading games of recent years and from the look of this, 
 will turn into one of the most popular franchises of all time but like all games, it's not perfect.
 
  
  The Graphics really show off the power of the X Box 360, with some stunning visuals from seeing 
 the entire city from a high building to the details in your own character's clothes. The people 
 look very real and the cutscenes are outstanding and easily some of the best ever seen in a game. 
 However there are some problems with the graphics like some visual glitches in the game and also 
 too many of the characters have the same face but then again with thousands of AI walking around, 
 I can understand that. This may have to do with the power of the 360 but sometimes objects in the 
 distant can look a little ugly but creating entire cities is no easy task so these are only small 
 issues.
  
  The sound is simply stunning as the cities feel so alive and at times can make you forget you are 
 playing a computer game. The sounds during combat have been given so much time, effort and detail, 
 that hearing the clash of swords or a fallen enemy being slayed by your weapons are outstanding 
 additions to this game. Also when your up high on a view point, hearing the wind or listening to 
 the sound below which is so faint because of how high you are up, proves that small details can 
 make a huge difference. The only draw backs in the sound department is having to listen to beggars 
 shout off the same stuff over and over again in your face which can get really annoying.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic from the combat, to the free running system and will keep you hooked on the 
 game. Starting with the free running system, which for me is easily the best in any game to date 
 as at times it was so fun to just scale large buildings and run around, leaping from roof to roof. 
 The combat system is fun and simple, so it allows you to get into some major battles against plenty 
 of enemies but it never feels like your out of your depth. The counter system during combat is 
 wonderful and the ways you can take down enemies with your sword or short blade is a true joy to 
 watch and experience. Also though you can use knifes which are very helpful to kick off a fight 
 with or take out archers at distance but the best weapon is easily the arm blade which is used 
 for a stealth kill and is one of the best weapons in any game. To be honest its very hard to come 
 up with any negatives about the gameplay but I think the combat counter system can be a little 
 easy at times but it does allow you to have bigger battles without a lot of frustration like some 
 games so virtually the game has an almost perfect gameplay system.
  
  The AI has the most flaws but I find that with most games but saying that they do provide good 
 tests during combat especially in groups as they size you up and try to wait for an opening. I 
 also love how sometimes seeing the deaths of there fellow comrades will make them run off screaming 
 like a little girl. However there are some drawbacks like the AI sometimes can point you out as 
 an Assassin too easy or in the case of the archer will take too long to try and attack you. The 
 most annoying part of this game are two of the civilian classes, one being the beggar who will 
 chase you and annoy you so much and the other is the drunken or mental people (not sure what they 
 are to be honest) who will attack you and blow your cover at time.
  
  The main plot of the game at times can be very interesting but overall gets a little confusing 
 and the ending is pretty poor but since its part of a planned trilogy, I can overlook this matter 
 for the 1st installment.
  
  There is quite a bit of replay value in the game as there are plenty of side missions you can go 
 back to after you have completed it but the real relay value will be trying to do your assassinations 
 in different ways. However the replay value can be taken down somewhat by the inability to skip 
 cutscenes.
  
  Overall this game will be a classic for many years to come and hopefully the drawbacks can be fixed 
 for the sequel and this franchise can rival other greats in the gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrQuest77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun - I was a huge fan of the prince of persia series for Xbox, so it was 
 really fun to play this game, which had many of the same elements. That being said, it is a very 
 very very repetitive game, as you really just do the same sequence of events several times. Nevertheless 
 the visual component of the game almost completely trumps this repetition in gameplay; the viewpoints 
 are spectacular.
  
  Another problem with the gameplay was that it was almost impossible to die at any point in the 
 game, which detracted from the experience. 
  
  The freeform nature of this game is what makes it really immersive, as you can just wander the 
 streets (or rooftops) causing chaos, while always knowing that you can outrun the guards.
  
  I really liked this game, and I hope that there is a sequel or a new prince of persia game 
 for 360 coming soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Not many non-sequel games gather that much attention as "Assassin's Creed" did. Whether it was 
 because of its innovative free-running and mysterious story or Jade Raymond's popularity doesn't 
 really matter. What matters is that "Assassin's Creed" is one of the best and most memorable games 
 in years.
  
  So let's start with this mysterious story. What so special about it that Ubisoft kept it in secret 
 for such a long time? Well, it's really hard to tell without spoiling the whole plot but as you 
 might already know it's not exactly a medieval-based game. There are sort of two timelines, one 
 of them is actually medieval but the other presents modern times or rather very modern cause it 
 takes places several years ahead at the end of (in) famous year of 2012. There's not a word about 
 the end of the world this time but you can tell that something big is going to happen in just a 
 few days. You play as Desmond Miles, a young guy captured and imprisoned in a scientific facility 
 for at first unknown purpose. Soon you find out about animus project which allows to recover memories 
 of Desmond's ancestors from his genetic code. And unfortunately it happened that Desmond's ancestor 
 was a guy named Altair who was a medieval assassin fighting with a group of people craving world 
 domination. It gets far more complicated than this but like I said, it's better you reveal all 
 the secrets and twists of it by yourself (well, obviously) . The game ends in a confusing way but 
 in a good meaning of the word leaving the player hungry for the sequel. And yes, I can't wait!
 
  
  The story is absolutely great featuring interesting characters with pretty solid voice acting.
 
  
  But even the greatest story wouldn't be of any good without some awesome gameplay. And, oh dear 
 "Assassins's Creed" has loads of it. I already mentioned free-running which is both easy and fun. 
 There's more challenge seeking the right path to escape your pursuers than to actually execute 
 climbing, jumping, running through the crowd etc. You don't need to think which buttons to tap 
 in what moment to do this or that. You just pull the right trigger and occasionally hit A button 
 and that's just about it.
  
  Parkour is one thing but there's of course much more to do in "Assassin's Creed". Every missions 
 has three stages, research, assassination, escape. In preparations you need to collect some info 
 about your target and you can do it by eavesdropping, interrogating people, pickpocketing or acquiring 
 info from the informers. When it comes to assassination, you can do it silently with your hidden 
 blade or just run and hack and slash through the guards to reach your assassination target. Either 
 way, after the killing is done you just need to run like hell, loose the tail and hide till guards 
 stop hunting you. Besides that there are also side missions like helping citizens or you can hunt 
 some templars or search for flags, reach high points and so on. It all adds to some of the variety 
 between the main missions.
  
  Also very important part of the game is combat. It's just as easy as free-running and it's just 
 as fun. With every mission you gain new abilities and equipment so it's not like you've seen all 
 at the beginning of the game.
  
  The audio-visual presentation of the game is very impressive as well. Gorgeous music, detailed 
 sound effects and absolutely beautifully rendered cities will amaze you with its complexity and 
 genuine feeling that they "live".
  
  "Assassin's Creed" is one of the best gaming experiences in the recent memory and is a must play 
 for just about everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aviator2559
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  The storyline is very nice and attracting. It keeps making you want to come back to the game. The 
 game is a mystery in itself which for curious people, this is your game. The game should be spread 
 out over a while, because the only differences between the people you assassinate, is that they 
 tell you a different story, it gets harder every time, they view of what they were doing for the 
 world. Suprises and secrets start to unveal themselves to you if you pay attention, you can also 
 notice them before there is a concern for them. The cities are so life like and the graphics couldn't 
 be better. This game is so life like you feel like you are an assassin when you play this. The 
 ending is very surprising and leaves you hanging for Assassin's Creed 2 to come out... Honestly 
 I can't wait! I do not believe there is a multiplayer, I have to check... so I can't rate how well 
 that is...
  
  Final Decision 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft Montreal deserves a pat on the back and much more with such an accomplished game as Assassin's 
 Creed. This next-Gen game is more than just killing, running and pushing annoying beggars out of 
 the way. Although these things are fun, Assassin's Creed delivers a brilliant storyline in a very 
 well designed artificial world of the middle east. 
  
  There has, however, been a lot of speculation on how repetitive the game seems to be. There are 
 the same three quests in every city. Save the Citizen, Climb the Tower and pick-pocket the poor 
 bloke who doesn't really deserve it. But honestly I don't care. Sure Ubisoft could have come up 
 with some other missions as well but I'd like to think otherwise. I mean, what else could they 
 have put "sell dried figs to make money"? There always seems to be an element of awe in every scene. 
 When taking in the sights from to the top of a tower or when performing a bloody counter attack, 
 it all seems to be beautiful (if you don't find a clean slashing beautiful... it's all a matter 
 of aesthetics really) . The idea of upgrading seems to keep game play interesting as each time you 
 go into one of the cities, you have some new flashy move up your sleeve... or a lethal hidden dagger. 
 The combat is also beautifully executed combining strategy, reflexes and knowing when your outnumbered.
 
  
  Among all other things, my favorite part has to be the non-linearity. Jumping from rooftop to rooftop, 
 climbing up surfaces with seamless bricks jutting out of walls, and finally shanking those rooftop 
 guards who are ever so annoying. You can go anywhere and do anything you please, so far as the 
 game engine permits. 
  
  And now to the biggest part of the game, the assassinations themselves. O dear god they are fun. 
 Plunging a blade into a sought after man of power? What could be more exciting? However, as you 
 progress more and more through the game, the harder it becomes to actually assassinate the men 
 in question. After finally getting through a horde of guards however, it is truly satisfying to 
 have your way with the targets. Although I do warn you that lengthy tedious conversations are to 
 follow after the actual assassinations.
  
  You are probably wondering why I never mentioned any of the plot or basic introductions... well... i 
 believe that is up to the gamer to experience. Anyway, enjoy the game. I hope you like it as much 
 as I do. I am not insane and thus have given this game a final rating of 9.5, not 10. I do this 
 because I feel there is improvement on one more thing for Assassin's Creed, a bloody sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ion383
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I was very eager to get and play Assassins Creed when I heard it was coming out. I had seen many 
 gameplay movies and trailers and it looked amazing. I finally got it for Xmas and I played it. 
 It was awesome for the first few days. I thought I could kill people forever.... But that dident 
 last. I advanced a few chapters to find out i gota go back to the same towns and basicly do the 
 same stuff over again just to kill a different person. Wasent to happy about that. This is my review 
 of Assassins Creed for the Xbox 360.
  
  Graphics-Visually Outstanding. I liked the towns very much. The people looked good to. When I wasent 
 out on a mission or hunting someone down Id take time to look at how good this game looked. One 
 of the best looking games Ive seen 5/5
  
  Story-I believe this game had a strong story. When I got It I had no idea you played 2 roles in 
 the game. Basicly your a man in a building. This building has a special machine that sends you 
 back in time. But theres a catch this machine sends you back in time to your ancestors memories. 
 This man I spoke of plays the role of his ancestor. The scientists in the building use you to go 
 back in time to kill off certain important but bad people. Thus changing the future for the better. 
 Great Solid Story 4/5
  
  Gameplay- This is were the game goes a bit down hill. Basicly you are give missions to travel to 
 certain towns to kill certain people. But in order to find these people you have to  
 and talk to informants. All of those small tasks are really kinda boring. You do all of this just 
 to kill one person. Although I do enjoy the fighting system. You can do a variety of things to kill 
 enemys. The weapons selection is a bit low though. One last thing I almost like doing.... running 
 from the guards. Its fun to run but finding hideing spots is just tooo easy. I mean you can sit 
 on a bench and the guards cant find you! Your the only one in the game wearing all white robes!!! 
 Last climbing buildings is amazing. Its like being spiderman off the past. Id give the gameplay 
 a 3/5
  
  Sound-The music in this game is alright. Theres basic chase music... you know when your getting 
 chased the musics all dramatic. Next the enviorment sounds are good. They did a pretty good job 
 on that. Last the voices of the people walking around are horrible. Its sounds... Its hard to discribe. 
 I guess you could say they dont sound crisp or clean. They sound like a bad quality video on the 
 web. That kinda bad quality. Although the voices in the cutseens and stuff are good. The sound deserves 
 a 3/5
  
  Overall- This game got alot of hipe in 2007. It had some tough competitors that year like, COD4, Bioshock, 
 and Halo3. I personaly dont think it was as good as those games but it was close. They could have 
 improved a few things in the game. They i would have given a higher rating. Id say it would be like 
 the 6th overall game of 2007. Total Score 15/20. Divide that by two and poof theres my rating...7.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one of those games that from the outset got many people hyped. The concept and 
 ideas presented really made this an extremely hyped game. However most would agree that there was 
 a bit overhype. Thats not to say the game is bad. What it does mean, is that it isnt the instant 
 classic we were all expecting from the guy who made Prince of Persia. 
  
  Assassins Creed is a blend of many things. First it is a sandbox game such as a Grand Theft Auto. 
 However its more action/advanture and more about swords and minor stealth. The story and setting 
 is mostly in the future. YOu are taken by a scientific organization that puts you in a machine 
 that checks your DNA memory of your ancestor. Hence when you die, you really dont die you are just 
 being taken out of synch from your ancestor. Its a nice spin to take away that feeling of death 
 and comeback to life. 
  
  The ancestor Altair is an assassins. Arrogant beyond words and from the beginning makes rookie 
 mistakes because of his arrogance. He makes the main guy mad.... and yada yada he loses all of his 
 equipment and rank. So you are given a hitlist to redeem yourself. This way the idea that Altair 
 is a vet stands, and he is disgraced makes the killing a bit more personal. 
  
  Before you can do a killing you will have to first actually make it to each city. In between them 
 are beautiful landscapes and miles of ground to get by. Ofcourse it goes by quicker if you just 
 get your horse. Each time you first enter a city (there are 3 major ones in total) you will have 
 to save a scholar from being mugged. once this is done you can blend with the scholars and enter 
 the city the easy way. 
  
  Or you could be like me and say forget it and just fight them from the get go. ITs a nice way to 
 mix things up if you really just wanna get into the city with some style. Once you are in the city 
 you must go to your assassins burea and find out who your target is. Then you begin your investigation. 
 You can pickpocket for information, intimidate somebody by mugging them, or eavesdrop. Once enough 
 is done your killing sequence can begin. As soon as you are close enough to where the target will 
 appear a cutscene happens. Usually showing your future victem in a negative manor. You can be slick 
 and kill them while they aren't looking. Or you can just run up to them and whip there rear really 
 quick. Some cases, you will be stuck just fighting them. 
  
  After the target is dead, another cutscene happens. Showing a whole new light no your target and 
 adding a more confusing twist to the story. This is a bit of a vague discrition but expect to do 
 everything listed for each and every target over, and over, and over again. A few of them will 
 actually run away, be in higher places, be in more confined places, but the game is rather repetitive. 
 
  
  The combat is simple, and a bit of a button masher. But the counter sequences lead to some awesome 
 kills and can be rather enjoyable. The throwing knives can be fun to just knock off enemies from 
 a distance, and running up to unsuspecting enemies with your short blade never gets old. Another 
 nice thing about the gameplay is how Altair can climb just about everything. Its really cool to 
 go to the highest area and then do your quick scan of the area. Not only is it just breathtaking 
 to see (the game looks very good) , its also just rather enjoyable to be able to go from building 
 to building like its nothing. 
  
  The story of this game is rather forgetfull. Most of it is boring, uninteresting, however around 
 the end with the plot twist (although you can see it coming from miles away) it does get interesting, 
 and just when the game peaks at finally having an interesting story going it pulls a Halo 2 and 
 just ends. 
  
  Assassins Creed is by no means an amazing game or just an average boring game. It is a good game. 
 Alot of the ideas in this game were very good, the game can be rather fun. But what hurts this 
 game the most is its repetition in missions and lack of variety. Being a sandbox game this game 
 is entirely comparable with a Grand Theft Auto, and one thing GTA does really well is variety in 
 missions. Assassins Creed was the same thing over and over again. The exploration aspects, the 
 ability to go where ever you want, the fun killing animations, the visuals, and rather interesting 
 setting made this game a good game. 
  
  IF you go into this game expecting something amazing, you might be dissappointed. IF you go in 
 expecting something good, refreshing, but flawed you can atleast end up enjoying this game. 
  
  Final Rundown
  
  Graphics-9- The game is beautiful. It looks very good. The segments where 
 you make quick scans of the general area from the highest points are just breathtaking. THe animations 
 are also awesome. A couple of glitches and bugs aside its a beautiful game. 
  
  Gameplay- 8- Repetive game design choices, and simple combat dont kill the entire gameplay. The 
 ability to climb and go almost anywhere around town is alot of fun, the AI is brilliant, the killing 
 sequences are awesome, the counter kills can be alot of fun, and running away from an entire city 
 can be a blast as well. 
  
  Sound- 9- good voice acting and a pretty nice score. The dialogue was ok, but the main voice actor 
 was terrible. 
  
  Concept/intangibles- 8- the story takes awhile to finall get good and the plot twist was almost 
 to easy to spot. The unique setting and new gameplay elements do add to the fun. 
  
  Value- 8- THe game isnt extremely long, but it does take a good 10-15 hours to complete. It is 
 a solid buy. 
  
  Tilt-8- Simply put it was a good game but nothing special. It has some good game mechanics, great 
 visuals, and a living breathing world. However certain design choices and repetition hurt the overall 
 product. 
  
  Overall 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depakjan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  I dunno how this game got 9.0 , absolute crap, u do the same stuff again and again and again, cant 
 there be any good objectives!!!.... come on, even the combat is same it's like u intentionally 
 involve in combat and it's just the same!!!! my god i can keep saying everything is same same same........, 
 for first two assasinations it's awesome after that to do the same crap again, i don even feel 
 like playing, imagine POP it got 8.5 or some and this crap gets 9.0, definitely poor, there is 
 some hook up between ubi and gamespot, there was a game called INFERNAL (awesome graphics) which 
 got 5.0 from gamespot for jus being repetative and what do u call this game???,,, give 10.0 for 
 graphics but not for the gameplay, man gamespot sucks big time.... stop reviewing  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseyborn88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I'm just going to come right out and say it: Assassin's Creed is fantastic. More to the point, 
 it's beautifully realized, richly detailed and carried by a story with twists that rival the surprises 
 of BioShock. It's also endlessly fun, giving players complete freedom to tear ass across the rooftops 
 and streets of its medieval cities as they track down their targets and try to avoid attracting 
 attention while doing so.
  
  Cherry-picking elements from games like Prince of Persia, Gun, Crackdown and Hitman, Assassin's 
 Creed offers up a huge, freely explorable game world consisting of three crowded, historically 
 accurate cities - Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem - as well as the Assassin-controlled fortress village 
 of Masyaf. All of these are connected by The Kingdom, a vast expanse of secret-filled wilderness 
 that can be explored on horseback.
  
  The meat of the game revolves around slipping undetected into each of the cities in turn, fully 
 exploring one of its three districts while investigating a single assassination target, and then 
 pulling off a risky, high-profile hit in public before cheesing it to safety and reporting back 
 to Masyaf. Along the way, you'll pick pockets, save citizens from armed bullies, sprint recklessly 
 up walls and across debris-strewn rooftops and play lots and lots of cat-and-mouse games with the 
 cities' guards.
  
  Publisher Ubisoft has been extremely cagey about the game's long-rumored sci-fi trappings, but 
 because they're revealed so quickly, it's not really a spoiler to say what we're about to say (although 
 if you really don't want to spoil the game's first five minutes, go ahead and skip to the next 
 page) : Assassin's Creed actually follows two storylines. First, there's white-robed Altair, an 
 arrogant young Assassin cultist who lives in the Kingdom of Jerusalem circa 1191, during the Third 
 Crusade. Soon after the game begins, Altair botches a vital mission deep underneath Solomon's Temple; 
 disgraced, he's given a chance to restore his honor by assassinating nine key Muslim and Crusader 
 political figures, thereby restoring some peace to the region.
  
  Then there's Desmond Miles, Altair's near-future descendant, who's kidnapped by a shadowy corporation 
 and strapped into a machine that can unlock the ancestral memories stored in his DNA. His segments 
 - which bookend each chapter of Altair's story - play a little like a point-and-click adventure 
 and are confined to the lab where he's imprisoned. Why this layer of sci-fi weirdness even exists 
 isn't clear at first, but it never feels tacked on, and the things you'll learn here will gradually 
 cast an unsettling new light on Altair's story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wavey_gravey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying that this game is absolutely gorgeous to look at. The animation on Altair 
 is first rate and the surrounding backgrounds are incredibly beautiful.
  
  I started playing this game and thought WOW, however this swiftly changed to crys of frustration. 
 The gameplay is very repetitive, arrive at city, climb to high point, synchronise with area, save 
 a few citizens, find bureau, get mission, gather information, kill target - rinse, repeat.
  
  The fighting irritated the hell out of me. Prior to the counter attack ability I struggled 
 with the fighting, however once I got it, the fighting system became ridiculously easy - there 
 just didn't seem to be a middle ground. Fighting off 25 guards, no mean feat by normal standards, 
 was a walk in the park with the counter ability - there was just no difficulty.
  
  I also found that for a stealth game, there was no real emphasis on the stealth elements of the 
 game, rather it seemed to steer you more towards fighting, then running and hiding on one of the 
 many roof gardens. The crazy disturbed guys in the street who would push you in to a guard whilst 
 you were carrying out a stealth mission made me shout loudly at my screen in frustration, and the 
 fact you couldn't swim made me want to cry!
  
  The achievements in the game are not quite right either. You get achievements for killing all 100 
 templars in the game, however there is no reward in terms of gameplay for searching for them - 
 you don't get additional skills or weapons, and the same can be said of the 100s of flags that 
 you have to find to get the achievements - the game just doesn't offer enough incentive to explore.
 
  
  Having said all this, the game did hold me until the end. I played it solidly until I had finished 
 it, and was pleased I had done so. I won't be playing again though, as there is just no replay 
 value in it for me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi7007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Before this came out there was a lot of hype surrounding it, as this was basically the first game 
 of it's kind. At first assassins creed doesn't dissapoint, and you'll be roaming aroudn the huge 
 citys of jerusalem, damascus and acre for hours on end, but then the missions do really get boring 
 as sitting down on a bench and listening to a converstation is more like a chore than a mission. 
 The graphics are amazing, nothing wrong with them, and the gameplay is incredible, allowing you 
 to swing climb, just about everywhere. What's really confusing and irrelevant is the connection 
 with Desmond, a random guy in the future. The game does not explain what is goin on, and walking 
 around a plain white room and getting on a random shape called an animus is very weird at first. 
 Also there are some awfully long, boring unskippable cutscenes which bceome really frustrating. 
 And the ending is just a stupid cliffhanger, in traditional davinci code style.
  
  Great game, just needs tidying up in a few more areas. Better luck next time Ubi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I personally think this game is overrated. The graphics are really good, the storyline is original, 
 but the game gets so repetitive! After like the third or fourth boss you will want to shoot yourself. 
 Not to mention finding the flags and killing all the templars are a pain. I just think this game 
 was a little hyped up and I wouldn't buy it unless the game was $20. Since the game doesn't take 
 long to beat I would rent it first. Also if you're into getting achievements and I got 845 gamercore 
 from AC without much effort. The only difficult point of the game is in the beginning when you 
 have no good weapons and it sucks, but as you progress through the game and beat some bosses, you 
 will get upgraded weapons. Even the final boss isn't hard. Since they're making sequels, I really 
 hope that they learn from their mistakes and make the new one a lot less repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran0n3
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is good, but not as good as it could have been. The visuals are outstanding. The 
 story is interesting. The controls work well. Physics are good, and fighting is fantastic. How 
 can you not love running and jumping up the sides of buildings. You actually cringe a little when 
 doing a "leap of faith".
  
  However, it gets very monotonous. It could use a better variety of weapons. Now I realize as an 
 assassin, you can't carry a bunch of stuff around, and a few choice weapons are the ones that work 
 the best, but I still wanted more. The whole modern day and flash back to "ye oldern times" part 
 of the story was a little lack luster. Just let it take place in the old days or yore. And my biggest 
 complaint of all...... Find the dumb flags. I know this is a small part of the game, and you don't 
 even have to do it, but this trend in video games has got to stop. Enough already with the "Find 
 the Blanks". We want quality content, which this game has, not mindless wandering.
  
  All in all, it's worth the money, but it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed came in with a lot of hype and it really depended on what kind of player you are 
 which determined whether you liked it or not. 
  
  In Assassins Creed you play as the assassins master protege Altair. In the beginning of the game 
 he is sent on a mission to retrieve an artifact but he fails and breaks many rules of the clan 
 and is stripped of his rank and weapons and thats where the story starts.
  
  The combat involves stealth fighting, aggresive combat, and some long range fighting using throwing 
 knives. The combat is fun but gets slightly repetitive but as you progress farther in the game 
 the harder the guards are to kill and the more of them you'll have to face at a time. This is what 
 keeps it fresh. While you fight you can directly attack, counter attack (you do this 90% of the 
 time) , dodge, or throw your oppenent. These are controlled by the Y, A, B, and X buttons.
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic and the scenery is beautiful. Just climbing buildings 
 and running from rooftop to rooftop is fun most of the time. 
  
  This game was a needed change form the nonstop productions of shooters and was really a fun game 
 to play. It has an great story with lots of twists and turns. The kill scenes were nice but the 
 only problems i have with this game are the missions do get repetitive and the ending isn't bad 
 its just really confusing if you don't know that its over. Also the fighting could be tweaked a 
 little bit to make it a tad harder but still this game was an incredible experience and i recommend 
 it to anyone.
  
  This game gets a 8.5 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodbath_87
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that this is the most beautiful game that i've ever played, and probably 
 the best looking 360 game out right now. I was really blown away at how great some parts of the 
 game looked, like coming down the hill before you go into Damascus, and climbing the highest view 
 point in the cities. It doesn't look much better than that.
  
  Graphics aren't everything though, there are some problems with this game. The gameplay is really 
 fun at first but after 10+ hours you'll be feeling like you're just doing the same thing over and 
 over, which you are for the most part. There are missions that you have to do in each city, including 
 but not limited to, listening to conversations on the streets, pickpocketing people, and doing 
 missions for informants. These can all be enjoyable for a short time but eventually feel like more 
 of a chore than anything. Saving citizens is something else that you'll find yourself doing quite 
 a bit, and once you get to the end of the game you'll want to kill every one of them after they've 
 been saved, I did at least, at it made me feel a bit better.
  
  The combat will also get old after about 10+ hours of doing the same few moves over and over, these 
 moves do, however, look very cool. There are a lot of different kill animations, mostly for counter 
 kills, and it may take you a while to see them all, which is good, but before the animation is 
 the bad part. The enemies will mostly stand around you and attack one at a time, which doesn't 
 make much sense to me. If I was jumped by 5 people in the street I would expect them to attack 
 me at once, not take turns. This also makes the game much easier, which may turn people away. You 
 really just have to hold down the block button and press the counter button when the enemy lunges 
 at you. Combo kills take a little while longer to master, though, but when you do you'll get bored 
 of them as well.
  
  You have three weapons, a sword, short sword, and throwing knives. The knives can be used to pick 
 people away from afar, which is fun to do until you run into a targeting problem that will send 
 your knife straight ahead of you or into a civilian, which will take away some of your health. 
 The sword and short sword work pretty much the same. I think it would have been cool to be able 
 to dual wield short swords, it could have made combat a little more fun and not so repetitive.
 
  
  The targeting issues I mentioned above are one of the many problems with the targeting system. 
 While trying to run away you will sometimes lock on to the enemy that you're trying to get away 
 from which will leave you open for attack and can lead to your death if you're low on health (which 
 is really the only reason to run away, unless you're just tired of fighting people) . Also, after 
 you save a citizen you lock onto nearby vigilantes, which is really annoying given the number of 
 times that you have to save civilians.
  
  The story and characters are good for the most part. Altair is an enjoyable main character that 
 you should like, as are most of the other people that you will run into. My favorite was the bureau 
 leader in Jerusalem, who has an attitude with you at first but grows to respect you as the game 
 goes along. He also has a history with Altair, which makes their conversations enjoyable.
  
  Now i'll get to what some people call the "twist" of the game, which is revealed in the first 
 5 minutes. Most of the game takes place in the mind of Desmond, an ancestor of Altair's, who is 
 being held in some kind of medical facility for unknown reasons. You get to play as Desmond for 
 a small part of the game, when you will mostly talk and walk around... slowly. There are some parts 
 where you can get onto the doctors' computers and read their emails, which confuses you more than 
 anything. This part of the game may be a little boring, but I didn't want to leave it when I had 
 to go back and play as Altair.
  
  Altair's ending is really good, in my opinion, I liked it a lot, Desmond's, however, is very confusing. 
 I didn't even know that it was over until l walked around for 10 minutes or so. It makes you think 
 that there will be a sequel, which is good, but they could have done it better.
  
  The biggest disappointment for me was not being able to free roam after the game is over, which 
 mean that to get most of the achievements you'll have to play the game over again. This goes along 
 with the story, but if they had done it better we wouldn't have had any issues.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a good game that could have been better. If you're into action adventure 
 or interested in the Crusades you should give it a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantera8721
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  When I first played the game I said WOW (or something like it) . I was Impressed with the graphics 
 of the game. But what had me going was how your guy climbs up a wall the details of the walls, 
 his movements, everything with the walls.
  It has a unique story line but alittle confusing in the ending and you can find out 
 more of the main characters past if you move about in the lab.
  Apart from the goodies in the game I must name the badies.
  First of all I must say they could 
 have done more in the fighting scenes not just a hit button in the right moment and a video pops 
 up doing the attack.
  There could be more difference when you do missions as you do the same stuff everytime to find 
 your target. Once you notice that going to an atalaya which are easy to find they will reveal what 
 you need to do next. In resume it could be alittle harder finding the targets if you just didnt 
 need going to an atalaya.
  Same stuff for every city except city 2 and 3 has archers on the roof. Apart from a difference 
 in the style of the city.
  In resume I recommend everybody to play this game now buying it depends on you. Ive played 
 and passed the game and I have no urge to do it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed really surprised me. I didn't expect it to be this good. The game play in this 
 game is amazing. It is so easy to run around rough tops. The fights are fun but could have had 
 more action. Fighting mostly focuses on counter attacks. The world is huge and gives you a lot 
 to explore. The graphics are very good. Everything looks clean and crisp. The lighting is very 
 detailed. The story is interesting. You get to go through different cities to do activities which 
 eventually lead up to assassinations. There could have been more activities to do because they 
 became repetitive after a while. The sounds in this game are all good. Everything from the clinging 
 of swords to your foot steps is heard. The ending to the game was weird. It didn't make a lot of 
 sense but leaves the chance of a sequel. Overall Assassins Creed is a one of a kind game and I 
 recommend it to any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red-ray
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1191 AD you are Altair an assassin whose mission is killing nine men. you're equipped with 
 a mysterious dagger as primary weapon for assassinating your targets. Story is heavily based on 
 reality you're a member of hashashin a group that used to kill crusaders. all your targets are 
 men who died on that year but not necessarily by assassination. story is excellent like other parts 
 of game. maybe the only thing that is not good is modern parts. Story related to modern times and 
 all you play is a memory, but this is unavoidable to make a sequel!
  If you care about graphic this game is your choice. Graphic is unbelievable. Light and shadow effects 
 are at such a high level that not many games will reach it in current generation. When it comes 
 to texture the game is even more powerful. you can zoom to a wall and you'll never see a blurry 
 texture. Altair's modeled impressively, others are good but not as much as Altair. this game is absolutely 
 showroom of level designing, three big (really big) cities and an even bigger kingdom that connects 
 these cities, but nothing has forgotten in these vast places such as tiny vases in front of windows. You 
 can see art of level designers when you are on pinnacle of a very high tower in Damascus. whole 
 city is under your steps WOW. This game has perfect landscape scenes. Entering Damascus for the first 
 time is the most jaw dropping scene you've ever seen in a game, you pass the mountains and eventually 
 see a real huge city and tiny people trading, resting and doing their jobs in front of its walls. the 
 perfect music helps to shock you more. You can't believe your eyes.
  Sound is nice. music is ready everywhere is needed and fits the game perfectly. sound effect is topnotch. 
 You can close your eyes and imagine yourself in a 12th century market while everybody saying about 
 something someone tries to sell someone wanna buy and ... imagine some dialogues are in native 
 languages. you'll likely hear many arabic words in Damascus, german in Acre and turkish in Jerusalem 
 as part of Othman empire. specially when guards are attacking you they say hilarious things in their 
 language.
  Animation nicely fits the topnotch graphic. You wont see any glitch while Altair is jumping on roofs 
 or climbing walls. Although other people animation is not in the same level with the main character 
 but its still nice and in such crowded cities you don't expect more. Altair's mysterious walking 
 style make sense that he's an assassin, it's cool, you'll love it.
  In case of gameplay Assassins Creed is even more realistic. Battles are real, you can't kill the 
 guards who surrounded you just by swinging your sword above your head, on the other hand you shouldn't 
 hit someone many times to kill him, usually each time your sword touches someone, he's finished. 
 There's neither unreal moves in battles nor a big library of useless combos. Counter kills brings 
 about pretty cut scenes of brutal kills. if you kills many guards, remaining ones cry for mercy 
 and try to scape. Cool !!!
  Controlling Altair is excellent. You know where he's exactly going to jump. By holding B he will 
 gently push others out of his way this is useful in crowded place to walk without attracting guards 
 attention also for getting rid of beggars. There's no nasty puzzles to solve for acquiring keys 
 to open doors, the city is yours just explore, investigate, eavesdrop or even interrogate and assassinate 
 your target. Controlling the horse is good as well, it's exactly in your hands.
  Finally Assassins Creed is a must have game that if you haven't bought it yet your library is seriously 
 incomplete. I recommend when you wanna play this game invite others to come and watch a movie about 
 crusaders!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The first views of the "old" world are stunning. The building and city designs are stunning. The 
 modern world looks like a cheap afterthought like they got their jr. designers to bang out a level.
 
  
  The gameplay itself after aboiut 4 assassinations becomes mission repetitive, get an assignment, 
 go to a city, talk to the bureau, gather some evidence, go to the bureau again, then go off someone.
 
  
  I was sooo excited when i first synchronized the world, that we were opening into a gorgeous and 
 deep world. In reality it becomes all surface without the gameplay to match. The combat system 
 is not worthy of the where the game ends up as a button mashing fest, and the frame rate glitches 
 in the boss battles maddening.
  
  How this got above a 7 blows my mind. When bioshock and Mass Effect were truly original and imaginative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Put it in, play it, and it's amazing. Great storyline, incredible graphics, and the gameplay is 
 awesome. Wow, I just jumped from a building into some hay...
  
  ...10 minutes later...
  
  ZOMG! This again! Yay! Jumping into hay is so awesome!
  
  ...20 minutes later...
  
 
  Oh, here again... Oh well, it gets me closer to that achievement...
  
  Above is a prime example of what to expect with this game. The story is cool, and the graphics 
 are immense, but the gameplay is soo repetitive, and it really lets the whole thing down.
  Clearly, rushed. Hope the next one's better, for UbiSoft's sake. If they keep wasting time on games 
 like this, there's no hope for them.
  Do not spend 40 on this game when you could be buying far better games, like Gears of War and 
 Mass Effect.
  
  A simple review for a simple (and boring, I might add) game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrbednarz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly great game. What you hear is true. It does tend to be a little repetitive, but 
 in a good way. It has a tremendous story line, beautiful graphics, great music, and sound effects, 
 It was a complete joy to complete the seven chapters and it was a welcome sigh of relief from the 
 excessive amount of shooters released within the past year. 
  
  The cities are alive in every way. While the civilians and other characters' AI leave a little 
 to be desired, the amazing amount of detail on the screen at one time makes up for this shortcoming. 
 
  
  I am not really sure why you had to travel between the cities the first time and could just warp 
 on later occasions. I believe they could have made the travel time more interesting and this could 
 have led to the game being less repetitive by making use of differing twists during travel.
  
  Although the ending was baffling and troublesome, it left everything nicely open for a much 
 anticipated sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Imagine looking at a beautiful woman. The girl of your dreams. (If you are a woman reading this 
 and not a lesbian, please replace woman with man, girl with boy, and he with she. Thank you.) The 
 one you stare at all through math class. In fact, she's the one that made you fail math class and 
 is why you're flipping burgers now. So you want to hate her.. but when you look at her.... you can't. 
 So you just take all her crap. You let her treat you like garbage and go on smiling because she's 
 so damn cute. She tells you to steal her some candy and jewelry. You know you shouldn't... You want 
 to tell her "go to hell lady", but she says please with those big beautiful golden eyes and you 
 have no choice but to say "yes dear. Anything for you". So you do it, you regret it, and then you 
 have sex. And you feel everything you did is now justified.
  
  This is A: the story of my life, and B: just like playing Assassin's Creed. This game is incredibly 
 beautiful. It's soooo pretty. When you play it, you feel like you are going out with the hottest 
 chick in school. You have all these pretty things to look at. The way it moves. The way it paints 
 itself. The realism... I'm talking about the game... not the girl. Yet. 
  
  The animation is probably some of the best animation I've ever seen in a game. The textures and 
 lighting are breathtaking. The atmostpheric perspective is nearly spot on. The shadows play off 
 of everything. And it just get's more and more amazing. So just like when you go out with the hottest 
 chick in school, you look her over... constantly... and you want to see more... A lot more.... you 
 filthy degenerate. So you keep taking her out, and shmoozing her, and seeing what she's like. You 
 basically try her out. 
  
  And the more time you spend with her, the deeper your conversations get. The closer you two get 
 phsycially.. and then you find out, beneath that gorgeous exterior... there are problems.... lots 
 of problems....
  
  Scary problems. 
  
  Okay, maybe that's going to far.... but, just like the hot chick, the game does tend to look a little 
 shallow and unfinished in areas the more you play it. The gameplay gets a little repetitive. Some 
 of the level design is lacking. And the controls feel a little glitchy now and then. So like that 
 beautiful woman, you find out that the more time you spend with her.... the more frustrated you 
 become. 
  
  Oh don't get me wrong... she's great in the sack. As is the game. Some things about the game will 
 make you want to light a cigarette afterwards. Climbing around like a ninja is awesome! The story 
 is actually pretty intriguing the more you get into it. And the combat.... MAN is the combat cool 
 and cinematic looking. But still, there are those problems that creep up on you every time you 
 play it. 
  
  Every time you talk to that woman you're reminded why you hate her. But  
 her.... NO matter how badly she treats you. No matter how psychotic she turns out to be. No matter 
 how annoying her daily habit of taking 4 hours to get ready to go out is. You still come back. 
 And you'll still come back for Assassin's Creed. Why? Because you "love" her. Yeah right. You love 
 her body you pig. 
  
  So if you are used to getting treated like crap in exchange for a good time... then grab this game. 
 It's exciting. You'll feel like a cool kid for playing it. And you'll be blown away by it's innovation 
 and beauty. And then you'll spend your nights crying in your pillow... wondering why you can't play 
 any "nice" games.
  
  See a shrink for god's sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfyHurricance
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The game itself seems to be Prince of Persia, GTA, and Ninja Gaiden wrapped up into one. The storyline 
 is rather slow in the beginning and becomes elaborated towards the end. Its only at the end that 
 we get a sense of whats going on and then the game ends. There is no replay value this game offers 
 but the 20-40 hours of game play offered is worth the money. The game itself has cool concepts 
 but we have seen them all before, there is nothing new except a few bells and whistles. The game 
 tries to focus on these bells and whistles such as the eagle vision, jumps, and counter attacks 
 but they become extremely repetitive and lose their value. The voice acting is only so-so, you 
 never really develop and passion for the main character. The one thing I really liked about this 
 game is the plot twist at the end as well as the stunning graphics of ancients cities such as Acre. 
 This game was hyped way to much and doesn't deliver nor should receive anything higher then an 
 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krypto_USA
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Warning - if you have problems with vertigo or are afraid of heights you might want to stay away 
 from this game. The game is a masterpiece with a wonderfully detailed and realistic world that 
 is very immersive. However, there are two problems with this game that I find annoying and some 
 people might find downright scary. There is no camera control and as you run, jump and climb there 
 is a constant twisting and turning of the camera angle to produce a cinematic effect of your movements. 
 The end result is something like the Blair Witch Project and can induce nausea and dizziness. In 
 addition, some of the viewpoints you have to climb are dizzying and can create some strange effects 
 on you if you have problems with heights. I just wanted to point this out, no need to comment further 
 on the game, I think the other 1200 reviews have done a good job of dissecting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  In all honesty, Assassin's Creed did not get the amount of my attention it deserved, Mass Effect 
 (which in the end i did not enjoy much either) was first to the punch, and initially sucked me 
 in, while AC seemed to have a lot of what i want, i knew 2 things:
  1) stealth doesn't do that much for me;
  2) stealth really really doesn't do much for me.
  
 
  So AC was going to be an uphill battle. The innovative way in which the cities are handled is great. 
 Pick the order in which you want to get places, pick what you want to do, but not just that, but 
 pick how obvious you are about it is ... well great. However at the end of the day there are three 
 flaws which made me trade the title in:
  Firstly, the sound bytes: the world around you keeps saying the same things. Again, and again, 
 and yet again.
  Secondly, the missions, or more to the point the basic profile of tasks, is the same over and over 
 again.
  Thirdly, some things (like gathering flags) are to some extent just painfully hard, and are obviously 
 there to get you (the player) to spend more time on the game, rather than giving you any real benefit. 
 In short, they are pointless. Clever if you are into it, but for the most part ... not what i'm 
 after. I want story line that makes me want to know what happens next. AC did not offer that. The 
 side quests distract. You know that doing them will make it easier to complete the mission and 
 find out more about what's happening, but ... then they don't really raise your interest. Rather, 
 they bore you out of your mind.
  
  Now to be fair i only played the game for about 12 - 15 hours, and i did not get very far. I gave 
 up on the third memory (if you don't know anything about the game, read "mission" instead) . So 
 by no means did i see the game in what would presumably be dubbed "all its glory" rather i got 
 bored of it.
  
  There are the three reasons above, but the thing that put me of more than ANYTHING was the following: 
 the graphic glitches. The way your character interacts with the world around him is ... annoying 
 to watch. You press the button to gently push through a crowd, and a person beside him, to the 
 right appears but he motions someone to the left. How hard is it to code a check which assesses 
 that the closest NPC to you, in the direction to which you are moving is within 12 and 3 o'clock, 
 or 9 - 12 instead. There are so many simple ways of doing it (even with 3D geometry, even though 
 the calculation really is a 2D problem from a top down perspective) . Now i'm no games programmer, 
 and in fact face my limitations reasonably often, but ... that's something i could code just fine. 
 But i digress.
  
  The entire issue of "i could fix that" (in my own code) is not an issue of i'm a better programmer 
 than they are, rather it occurs to me as "that should have been fixed". Add to that that the controls 
 occasionally feel sluggish. And i mean in a way of "what is the size of a horses turning circle 
 when it's rearing?" surely it should be close to zero and not that of a barge the size of twice 
 the horse. Granted it is smaller, but when you're trying to solve a puzzle you don't really want 
 to be solving because it's not even a real side quest but rather an achievement thing, you begin 
 to wonder.
  
  To say i was disappointed by AC is maybe unfair. I have not really liked any of UbiSoft's 3D platformers 
 since 1998 or whenever "Evil Twin" came out. And mostly for the same reasons. The controls feel 
 of, the camera is not terrible, but not great and it feels like you're playing the game not for 
 the story, but the bits that go between the bits that tie the story together. So i did not have 
 high hopes and since i don't like stealth based games, I really had quite low expectations. As 
 such i was not disappointed, rather i felt justified.
  
  Voice acting is not bad, Scenery is nice (though repetitive) and the atmosphere is generally good, 
 besides when the above mentioned glitches make you wonder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Im not a personal owner of Assasins Creed but ive played a fair bit into the game at a mates. i 
 have a bit of trouble with the controls. but do not let this put you off. im a Wii and computer 
 gamer so playing 360 is weirdo to me. This game has amazing graphics and i can't wait for it to 
 come out on PC. It has the most amazing story line, one of the top ive ever come across in a game. 
 the game play itself is a bit like hitman blood money but SO much better. the fighting is incredible. 
 out of a range of weapons each have SO many different combos and moves which are stunning and satisfying 
 to watch. the sound is great. i only noticed 1 thing off when a tunnel caved and made no sound. 
 a few visual glitchs but really nothing that should put you off. If you care about these sort of 
 things than you need a slap. this game is AMAZING. a must buy. can't wait for it on PC. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I am not one to go re-invent the wheel, so if you haven't read Van Ord's review yet then go do 
 that now... I'll wait...
  
  Back?
  
  Okay, he's right and there's really not much to add to his wonderful review. But obviously I think 
 what I have to say is important or I wouldn't waste my time laying it out for you.
  
  My only objection to his review comes near the end, when he mentions that the world feels less 
 alive because the vigilantes are always in the same places or the missions reset when you fail 
 them. This is explained in-game as a function of the memory Desmond is experiencing. Historically, 
 Altair never failed to complete a mission, so if Desmond diverges too much from the actual memory... 
 then it has to correct itself. The whole game, with the exception of the few moments playing as 
 Desmond, is an immutable flashback, a recording.
  
  Something that Van Ord didn't mention and the thing that I loved the most, from first cracking 
 the case, is that you are immersed into the game from the very beginning.
  
  The book itself is written as if you, the reader/player, are already in the game's environment. 
 It is an annotated manual about the operation of the machine Desmond will be placed within. As 
 soon as you put the disc into the console, the fourth wall is breached and you aren't just a player 
 but an active participant. When you are controlling Altair, the HUD and menu system are depicted 
 as a part of the machine's interface. When you are controlling Desmond, in addition to guiding 
 him, you are viewing action through the various security cameras around the lab. You, the player, 
 aren't just sitting down to handle a controller and be puppet master to some character on the screen, 
 you are a part of the game as much its characters.
  
  So, if I say I agree with Van Ord, you may have noticed that I scored Assassin's Creed below the 
 other averages, and be asking why that is.
  
  As fantastic as the movement is, both in terms of fluid animation and ease of control, there are 
 frustrating idiocies at times. This awesome assassin, capable of incredible feats of agility and 
 strength, never learned to swim? And while the free-running is great and sometimes forgiving, it 
 can also be a harsh mistress too. In some instances you get the benefit of the doubt that Altair 
 wouldn't leap to his death and other times a seemingly simple handhold is ignored as you plummet 
 to the street below or a watery grave.
  
  A downside to the beautifully rendered environment is that you will often run into a situation 
 while scaling a wall where it LOOKS like you should be able to keep going... but you can't. You 
 have made far harder climbs, used far less sensible hand-holds... but not this time. This is especially 
 annoying whenever you run into this illogical obstacle at the height of a climb with no recourse 
 but to slowly pick your way back down.
  
  In the game's later stages, while I understand the need to increase the difficulty and can accept 
 that Altair's identity is less mysterious, I feel that the guards and pick pocketing targets notice 
 you a bit too easily. I mean, hey, the fighting is kinda fun... but after you have seen all the 
 counters and have grown tired of the repetitive nature of rescuing abused citizens, eavesdropping, 
 pick pocketing, and running often obnoxious sub-missions for other assassins... it becomes a headache.
 
  
  The ending is both neat... AND a kick in the crotch.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a great game and I think everyone should play it. The visuals are stunning 
 and the sound engineering is miraculous. The gameplay itself is top notch, even with my few personal 
 gripes, and the story is very well told. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirzod101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is one of the best games ever to retell the orginal fight that happend a long time 
 ago. The game has like two storys in it so there is the present whtic is 2012 and the past whtch 
 is 1191 AD in the present you play as a bartender name dasmend and in the past you play as a assassin 
 name alter. The graphics are wonderful i mean one look at a town and your jaws will just drop thats 
 how good it is very well done ubisoft. The sound is also wonderful it has a lot of great soundtrack 
 and the music is well done to. If you just walk around then the music is just playing normal but 
 if you get in to a fight then it shifs to highgear and it calms down so thats how the music works 
 in the game. the replay is overall a balince cause after you beat the game there really is not 
 much left to do but look for the remaning flags and save more citazens or play the game over again 
 and try to get more xboxlive accments. Now overall this game could have had online mode or at least 
 downloadable contact over xbox live but hopefule ubisoft would put this contact in one of there 
 next games it is assamend but it get over fast. Now assassins creed is one of the most wonderful 
 promesing games of 2007 and is still a classce now a days and if you dont own this game then i 
 would suggsest you bye this game or at least rent it and if your intersted in history then thsi 
 game is based on it so that is a one up for the game so get out there and bye it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360pwnge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing first off the back great visual design a graphics leaping of towers and plumiting 
 into the hay below never gets old and the moment of the kill feels amazing counter attacks so brutal 
 you never with Altair comes to your home a great story for the most part until the end and fluid 
 movement but the only thing that brings this game down is repetitive missions and a ending so weird 
 you hope Assassin's creed 2 (if there is one and NOT Altairs chronicles ) Does what halo 3 did 
 to halo 2's ending My finale judgment best Action Adventure Game of the year... Oh i forgot amazing 
 free roaming world gives it just enough replay value to keep in your collection forever well i 
 don't have enough characters so plz don't mind mind the next few random word 
  
  the that fun to you lick yak shut 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_ofoblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Wow, great job ubisoft!
  Assassin's creed is one of the only games were I've watched one of my mates for about 2 hours on 
 it and I was never bored. You can admire the graphics for as long as you play it and you won't ever 
 get over the endless free-running and the immense assassination cases are truly unbelievable. The 
 only criticism I'd give about the assassinations is the atmosphere disruptant of going back to 
 modern day as a test subject. When I bought it I had no idea that it wasn't all straightforward 
 killing, that was the only letdown but apart from that, it's a game worthy of anyone's time and 
 money. The more you play the easier it is ( in my opinion.) You get better skills and weaponry and 
 also a larger health bar. Plus the more experience you have the easier it is to escape sticky situations 
 or to go all out and kill a fleet of troops. One of my friends told me it was a terrible version 
 of prince of Persia ( even though Prince of Persia is an absolute waste of some poor persons life!) 
 and guess what, he was completely wrong, what a fool! It may get a bit old after while but the possibilities 
 are endless. This is coming from a true gamer, this is a true game! got it ?
  
  Lordo out!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrzyFool67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  The gameplay mechanics in AC are phenominal . . . .the running, the climbing, the fighting are 
 all seamless and nearly flawless . . . I would be very suprised if these mechanics were NOT part 
 of the next PRINCE OF PERSIA game.
  
  That being said, the story starts out a bit confusing but by the end you are sucked in and want 
 more . . . which is just what Ubisoft wants . . . they won . . . I want to play AC 2 . . .
  
  All that being said, the gameplay elements which seem fun at first get insanely repetitive 
 by the middle of the game . . . Go to X . . . Climb lots of tall buildings . . . pickpocket people 
 . . .save citizens . . . interrogate . . . climb more tall buildings . . . kill some people . . 
 . kill some more important people . . . rinse . . .repeat . . .
  
  If it wasnt for the sheer need to finish the game and see what happened in the story next, I very 
 well may have put this game down and called it quits due to all the monotany . . . one can only 
 hope Ubisoft will improve upon this in the future . . .
  
  However, all in all, Assassin's Creed is a great game that just missed out on being an instant 
 classic . . . Heres to hoping AC 2 only gets better . . .and not worse!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xgouse
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok the first thing your going to notice about this game is that the graphics are freaking awesome.. 
 Then the first couple of missions are awesome too... But when it comes to saving the people of 
 the towns.. It gets quite annoying...
  
  People in the town are really dumb... I guess its because of the time period I dont really know 
 but... they lack the education to say something different... I think there's 3 lines that they 
 share... and you hear it a lot if you save them all..
  
  Missions are pretty much do it like you want to do it... no boundaries... All you have to do is 
 do some pretty simple tasks and get them done then you get your assassin feather... Gameplay is 
 awesome... The mechanics and the engine is almost flawless... Only thing i have a complaint about 
 is that it's sometimes hard to get your weapons out in combat.. Makes it more real I guess... Overall 
 I think the game could of used a Multi-player aspect... just think about it lots of assassins running 
 around trying to figure out how to kill each other... Id pay top dollar for something like that... 
 Most people would probably just throw throwing knives and be cowards but it still would be cool...
 
  
  Anyways... For a future game hire more people to talk for the citizens... Give more than just 3-5missions 
 that are so freaking easy a monkey can beat them... Get RID of the DAMN FLAGS.... (tip don't touch 
 the flags till you get close to beating the game.... its a hard time trying to figure out which 
 ones you have gotten and which you haven't...)
  
  That's it... Hope this doesn't push you away its a great game and well it deserves a play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhaslkhwg
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed must be acknowledged and even praised in some cases for some of the things it 
 tries to do. The level of interaction with the environment is extraordinary and revolutionary. 
 You can climb on just about anything that you think you can climb and come into contact with any 
 portion of the games settings without any icky glitches. This makes jumping from rooftop to rooftop 
 while your exploring the game's three cities a lot of fun. To truly see just how interactive the 
 environments are you have to experience that for yourself. The combat mechanic is also impressive 
 and some what innovative as well. When you start engaging large groups of enemies at once its impressive 
 at how fluid the game play is. The counterattacks, dodges, and just overall swordplay is exciting 
 and you'll find yourself, at least at first, picking fights with the town guards just to experience 
 it again and again. The frame rate holds of nicely while your jumping around or fighting too and 
 the visuals are beautiful. The towns are detailed, vast and lush in color which makes for some 
 great settings. This can truly be appreciated when you get a birds eye of the city for the first 
 time. The game does however have its problems. The assassinations themselves, although they do 
 have they're moments, don't exactly make you feel like a master assassin. You basically have the 
 choice of engaging all the guards and chasing down your target or you can get sneaky and get a 
 stealth kill after disposing of some of the guards secretly or waiting for the right moment. Don't, 
 however, expect it to be like hit man where you can do all kinds of things to kill your target 
 like falling chandeliers, poisoning food ect. So although the settings change and your approach 
 may slightly change its essentially the same for most of the targets so this can become repetitive 
 even though it is fun with the combat mechanics. The side missions you do around the cities to 
 gain information about your target get repetitive as well even though some of them are entertaining. 
 The story that underlies the game is interesting at times and has some cool historical references. 
 The voice acting is mostly very good with the exception of the main character who is much too over 
 dramatic. The ending is cliche and has an obvious cliffhanger for the hopefully deeper sequel. 
 Overall i can recommend assassin's creed for its good qualities and revolutionary ideas, but i 
 just wish it had more variety/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabar2319
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Unlike any other games out there. You are put into a historical world that you can explore for 
 literally days. The visual effects and action in the game is unlike any I've seen before. These 
 are ancient cities you actually feel a part of - primarily because of the architecture and people 
 that surround you. Most games will have a few people wandering aimlessly around. This game has 
 many different characters and there hordes of people going through their lives all around you. 
 
  
  Combat in the game is great. It takes time and practice to master the skills required to defeat 
 the toughest enemies - and the gameplay of the fights is exciting from start to end. Couple that 
 with using stealth to accomplish objectives and it's not just a linear 'kill everything in sight' 
 game.
  
  The story pulls you in too. Its not one-sided either. The primary character questions what is happending 
 and why he is doing what he is doing. Voice acting is like no other game around. 
  
  A lot to do - both required and optional in the game. This is the most open game I've played.
 
  
  I hope they make a sequel or have a series of these games. I would rate it just behind my all time 
 favorite game - BioShock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kezza108
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Well there are so many things you could say about such a game, but I consider above all things, 
 even the amazing visuals, that the gameplay is the thing that really has to be right. And in this 
 case, it is. Evading, sneaking, assassinating and such are all really fun things to do in this 
 game, and they aren't overly complicated actions. Fortunately, in cases where you try and blend 
 in, your character doesn't walk too slowly and thereby you aren't hindered by this fact. The Horse 
 riding and combat is also quite satisfying and not too slow, a thing many games get wrong. 
  
  The Story revolves around your character, a member of an orgainisation of elite assassins who 
 follow a strict code. Your aim is to unlock memories in your actual person (Not the assassin) , 
 but to do this you must use a special machine called the Animus to travel back to the Crusade's 
 as an assassin. The story is quite strange but good, and leave the game open for a sequal. The 
 Crusade era features many strange religious themes which tie in nicely to the game's feel and storyline.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are really impressive, at times there are many people on screen, with 
 every wrinkle in there clothes showing prefectly clear, and i'm not playing on a HD TV. The environments 
 also are well crafted and quite large, although in some cases, such as hidingf spots, abit recycled. 
 
  
  Overall i would say this is a great game that anyone with a sense of fun who likes to see something 
 new should try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacher
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The game looks beautiful, and has some of ht ebest environments I have ever seen. But after you 
 get over that in about a half hour, you realise that the game goes like so.
  1. Enter City
  2, Climb tower
  3. Pickpocket someone
  4. Interogate someone
  5. Save a citizen.
  6. Assassinate 
 a target.
  --- Now do it all over again -- about 10-15 times.
  
  This would be ok, if were not for the fact that, every  is set 
 up exactly the same way. So you get really bored. Add to that, guards that get harder to beat, 
 because they inexplicably get faster and more numerous in number, and you start getting frustrated. 
 Add to that a control scheme for fights, that somehow seems to not respond the same way as it did 
 in training, especially when you are surrounded by guards who'll attack you from behind, and knock 
 you off balance while you trying just to swing the damn sword.. and you end up getting pretty pissed 
 off at times. Alltogether, the game is fun to look at, but soooooooo repetetetetetetetive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MKRaiden92
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game looks cool, sounds cool, and plays cool.. for the first 30 minutes. After that, the game 
 gets so boring and repetitive that you forget what the story is, if there is one. If you are like 
 me and like experiencing every part of the game, then you are going to waste LOTS of time on this 
 game. By the time you are done, you will have saved countless citizens, listened to countless ours 
 of crap and climbed every freaking tall building there is... just to sit there then jump off. There 
 is not sense of real time, people can disappear and reappear just because you failed a mission. 
 There is no sense of realism, assassinating people is fun at first but it just gets too repetitive 
 and boring. The fighting system is basically tapping a couple of buttons. How the game is set to 
 detect "an assassin" is also stupid, you can kill a guard, run ten feet and be totally anonymous. 
 DO NOT buy this game, don't even rent it. It is CRAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyan_Flame
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a grand action adventure game based on the history of the first crusades. Sadly 
 the game is a hassle due to repetitiveness in the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay- You can jump to almost anywhere and climb up any building in the vast cities you'll explore. 
 The controls are pretty solid and lag is practically unpresent in the game. You can interrogate 
 enemies, soar up towers, cause chaos, and of course kill enemies. Sadly you end up doing all that 
 a little to much to enjoy it after a while.
  
  Music- Pretty nice and the pace picks up during street chases and the wonderful sounds that happen 
 after attacking with your hidden blade....
  
  Graphics- Astounding to say the least. Cities are vast and ever nook and cranny can be explored 
 (eventually) . Altair moves with such grace that you'll swear he pops right out of the T. V.
  
  Replayability- Well.... none really. it's the same game a second time around, maybe just for 
 the achievements.
  
  Overall Assassins Creed is a pretty darn good game... but you end up doing the same things over 
 and over and over again. I would say rent it, beat it, and return it... not worth full price : ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed delivers on some of the same game mechanics that made the PoP series so successful. 
 Running up walls, jumping across buildings, multiple enemies, collecting items and a pretty good 
 story. What it didn't have was a lot of puzzle related tricks to the game play. Given the environment, 
 I guess you wouldn't see a lot of that, but that is probably the one thing I would have liked to 
 seen.
  
  The graphics in the game were actually pretty well done and so was the voice acting. I did notice 
 some jaggies though when you would get a bit close to some shadow areas, but it wasn't enough to 
 draw a lot of attention to it.
  
  I did enjoy the story about memories being transferred from generation to generation in our DNA 
 codes. There were also some funny references to how in the future people were attempting to flee 
 into Mexico from the US instead of it being the other way around.
  
  I know I said this in my Community review, but I need to reiterate, the game is repetitive. Where 
 PoP was able to break up the game with puzzles and boss battles, AC has to follow the same repeated 
 steps for everything. Perform some tasks and then assassinate your target. There is no change to 
 this formula at all. Luckily for the game I didn't mind that much, but I can see how some might 
 grow tired of repeating the same steps over and over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdeens
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a disaster by Ubisoft... the game mechnics never change from the beginning or end of the 
 game... most of the side quests are boring and pointless and a total waste of time, since they serve 
 no pupose to the game's outcome. gatrhering up flags is also a total waste of time.
  
  the critic: "Kevin Van Ord" should be ashamed of the 9.0 rating he gave it... he should have been 
 chastised for his poor understing of how these games should be evaluated.
  
  this game was poorly designed and the BOSS fights at the end completely out of context with the 
 skills setsyou had achieved up to that point.
  
  the plot was contradictory and dumb -- both anti and pro Masonic.. often contradicting itself in the 
 same sentence.
  
  fortunately I doubt there will be a sequel... even UBISOFT is aware of the mixed reviews and wont 
 waste time and money on another poor effort.
  
  graphics howvere were great, but that is the least imporant factor in a review of an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperDJ
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  What an absolutely fantastic piece of design and engineering this game and its engine are. This 
 is truly one of the better 3rd person action/stealth titles I've ever played. This sits right up 
 there with Splinter Cell when it first released. From the limitless worlds, to the completely interactable 
 cities, to the kick ass fight sequences and killer cinematic combo moves, this game delivers everything 
 in one really nice looking package.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The city's are literally teeming with life, which you never get tired 
 of.... until you begin hearing the same scripting over and over... a small annoyance. 
  
  The jumping, climbing, and slashing all bring back grand memories of one of my favorite 3rd person 
 titles ever..."Prince of Persia" for PS2. Put that in a Medieval backdrop and you've got one sweet 
 game.
  
  actual gameplay would start to bug me in any other game, but the under awesomeness of this experience 
 makes the redundant nature of most of the features in the game a minor annoyance. All in all I 
 think it's a great title and would reccommend it to anyone who's just looking for a really good 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one of those games that gets involved in the story. It takes place in 2 different 
 settings. One setting is modern day, and you play a Character named Desmond Miles who is able to 
 access the memories of his ancestors with the help of the Animus. The Animus is a type of machine 
 which (more or less) helps you to regress past lives. When Desmond is in the Animus he is experiencing 
 the memories of his ancestor Altair. Altair is an assassin in 1191 A. D., during the 3rd religious 
 crusade which ravaged the holy lands in the middle east. Altair, after failing his mission, is 
 demoted by his superior and forced to take on several assignments to earn his rank, and his trust 
 back. The story for the game is top quality as far as I can see. It sounds and looks amazing. It 
 presents a nice challenge for players who are willing to be patient enough to experience the game 
 to the fullest. I personally was very impressed at how the game requires to think about the actions 
 that Altair will take. A feature in the game play allows players to see the motives of other NPC's 
 in the game through eagle vision (a type of 6th sense for Altair to use) .
  
  My hang up on the game is, if you are not patient enough to sit through it, it can be very painful. 
 Since there are not that many gamers out there like that, then it's a very small problem.
  
  This game is one that any devoted gamer must acquire. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob740
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that upon release was received with high expectations. The first hour 
 or two of the game gave the impression that this was definitely going to be a phenomenal game. 
 However, soon repetitiveness sets in - the same tasks are giving to the main character, Altair, 
 again and again - find information on your next target, either by interrogating, assassinating, 
 or pickpocketing someone for it. Then, only after acquiring that information, can you assassinate 
 your target, which by the way can rarely be done through use of stealth. The side tasks are also 
 quite repetitive - constantly save civilians from harassing officers, climb tall buildings to scout 
 the area, etc. The enemies in this game are beyond stupid. They'll warn you to leave countless 
 times, but won't chase after you unless you really provoke them. And for some reason, when they 
 do decide to chase you and they lose sight of you, it never occurs to them to look in the haystack 
 just a few feet away from where they last saw you. 
  
  There are a few other things wrong with the game, although I consider them to be annoyances rather 
 than flaws. Throughout the cities you hear the same few lines from the same types of civilians 
 - the beggars ask for money, the police apprehend thieves, the thieves declare their innocence 
 and plead for help - the list goes on. Altair's accent feels completely out of place here - despite 
 living in the 12th century, he has a modern-day American accent.
  
  Having gotten all its flaws out of the way, I can now say that I really liked this game. Assassin's 
 Creed is a beautiful game with huge cities that stretch out as far as the eye can see. Along with 
 Altair's superb and easy to control free-running abilities, you can spend hours simply exploring 
 the rooftops and alleyways of each city. In what I can only describe as the most satisfying aspect 
 of the game is the task of climbing to a tall building, scouting out the area to fill in your map, 
 and jumping off the very top, safely falling into a nearby haystack. Although you'll end up having 
 to do this many times throughout the game, this is one task I never got tired of doing.
  
  The combat system, despite making the game really easy, is entertaining and runs smoothly. You 
 have four different weapon options - a standard sword, a hidden blade, throwing knives, and your 
 good old, reliable fists - from which to choose from. Not only that, but as the game progresses, 
 you gain different abilities which will help you either during your fights or while your exploring. 
 
  
  This game's sound relies heavily on atmosphere, which is decent, not great. Like I said before, 
 the same few lines are heard constantly, which was a bit annoying. However, the few times you do 
 hear music, it does a good job of fitting the situation. I especially enjoyed the soundtrack playing 
 in the background during my assassination attempts - made those moments feel that much more exhilarating. 
 And excluding Altair (which was just ok for me) , the voice acting was well done too.
  
  I really wanted to give this game a higher score (at least a 9) , but a great story and great graphics 
 just barely make up for the repetitive game play. However, knowing that there is sequel on its 
 way gives me high hopes for the series - perhaps the game creators will become aware of what they 
 did wrong and create the masterpiece this game was meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmase14
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  If practice makes perfect, most of us will be experts after completing AC's extremely repetitive 
 game. 
  
  Assassin's Creed (AC) is a good game that includes a marvelous and inventive story with a great 
 control scheme. In AC, it is the user's job to access the environment around them and make a decison 
 of whether to use "high profile" or "low profile" moves. High/Low profile moves can be classified 
 respectively as either moves that will bring attention to you from the public and guards, or as 
 moves that will help you blend into your environment, avoiding any additonal attention. The control 
 is smooth, responsive and innovative. And the sword play never gets old. Whether you are surrounded 
 by 5 or 25 enemies, you never feel like there is a fight that you cannot win. The animations of 
 the assassinations and fight scenes are varied and keep you wanting to kill more.
  
  B/c of how great the graphics, control scheme, story, fighting engine, and innovativeness of the 
 game are, it just makes the fact that the side missions and gathering information on your target 
 being very repetive a huge disappointment. Climbing the look out points and saving the citizens 
 is fun... for the first 10 - 20 times you experience theseas pects of the game. But they get old, 
 and really quick. 
  
  However, being that that is my only complaint of the game, I find it unfair to penalize the overall 
 score/rating of the game, but I definitely would NOT recommend paying full price for this game.
 
  
  Happy Gaming, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting a while for this game to arrive and I was not disappointed when it did. My first 
 impressions of the game was that the graphics looked superb, I mean the detail in each city is 
 simply fantastic with the stark contrast of the rich sectors to the poor sectors is simply brilliant. 
 
  
  I found the whole intro to the game rather strange but it was soon explained and I quickly became 
 immersed in the detailed storyline. The storyline is quite strange as there really are two storylines 
 with the Crusade-time story and present day story running parallel it can get a bit confusing at 
 times (maybe it was just me!!!) . 
  
  The gameplay in the game is really easy to grasp and withinn 5 to 10 minutes you'll be jumping 
 across rooftops and performing stealth kills on unsusecting guards. The fight system in the game 
 is something I really enjoyed about this game as you can engage several guards at once without 
 being quickly overwhelmed (especially with the counter moves) .
  
  The only bad points of the game in my opinion are that it does become quite repetitve as you do 
 seem to perform the same tasks on your way to the big kill and this can become annoying if it weren't 
 for visuals and fight system. Also on the last level I kept getting 2 Altar's and couldn't finish 
 the game! (Seriously irratating!!!!) I then found out that this happened if you had two Xbox controllers 
 connected!
  
  Overall I found this to be a brilliant game with stunning visuals and great gameplay, although 
 the ending is strange and frustrating. Roll on Assassin's Creed 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSlip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an awesome game and I think that the sequels will only be better. The great 
 thing about this game is how innovative it is and how well it demonstrates the full ability of 
 the Xbox360.
  
  Let's talk about the gameplay. The feel of the entire game is just smooth and flawless. I don't 
 think that there are any places where I would improve on it gameplay-wise. The motions and movement 
 are fluid and attacks seem almost effortless. There are many actions that Altiar can perform and 
 use to his advantage during battle.
  
  The battles in Assassin's Creed are fun and exciting, though easy. All it really is pushing the 
 right button at the right time, while facing the right person. There are multiple harming/finishing 
 moves for each weapon and all of them are brutal (especially the hidden blade killing moves) . Battles 
 are very easy to flee, if you have to, because all you have to do is run up a building and hide 
 in a stall. 
  
  The non-battle kills are what make Assassin's Creed. There are multiple ways to kill your enemies 
 and all of them are awesome, from walking up and stabbing a guy in the back, throwing an enemy 
 into another one causing them both to fall off a roof, to hopping up a ladder and throwing a knife 
 into a guard before he realizes what is happening. It is quite easy to assassinate someone, so 
 long as you hold A to blend.
  
  The ability to use your environment to stalk and kill your prey, then easily elude the guards. 
 I think that it is a great feature to be able to climb almost any and everything.
  
  The graphics in the game are simply fantastic. The people, buildings, weapons, water, etc. all 
 look amazing and are better than almost every game out there. I hope that the next installments 
 improve on this. 
  
  There are many good things about Assassin's Creed, but there are a few bad things. One such thing 
 is its replay value. I love this game to death but I wish there was some incentive to replay the 
 game, such as achievements. Another thing I wish the game had was the ability to skip the cutscenes 
 that way I didn't have to listen to the assassin boss guy talk for a couple minutes each time I 
 replayed a memory. Other than that I cannot think of any major thing I would change. Naturally, 
 like all game, it has a few minor flaws, but nothing that ruins the game any.
  
  I feel that this game is great and is a must-have for any collection. I strongly recommend this 
 game for any true gamer because it will change the way you feel about games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbrogs001
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This seems to be a game that people either love or hate. Starting off, yes the missions can get 
 repetitive and yes the enemies are all very similar. The game however shines as a blast to play. 
 It is devised to be a stealth game, a genre which I typically hate. Assassin's Creed however took 
 people like me into consideration. This game can be played by the sneaky people and the people 
 like me who prefer to pull out the sword and dispatch the guard rather than try to lose them. I 
 was able to play through the whole game and enjoy it being either sneaky or rambo, whichever I 
 fancied at the time. The game looks amazing as well. It really shines when you get to the top of 
 a building and just look at the landscape. The only real complaint I have about the game is the 
 fact that is has very little replay value. The game is fun, lots of fun but once you play through 
 it, there is little reason to keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achanvc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  
  Repetitive throughout the game or not, it doesn't matter. The game delivers and exceeds the expectations 
 from me and what the Xbox 360 has to offer. A truly innovative, next generation gaming experience 
 with free roam and cities designed with precision and detailed accurately. This was the type of 
 game I've been waiting for since 2002, and finally its here. 
  
  I say I've been waiting since 2002 because i relate this game to that of the movie "The Scorpion 
 King", about an Assassin who eventually brings peace and order to the city ruled by a tyrant. And 
 now, I can experience and imagine it the way that movie portrayed the Assassin. And so, I thought 
 a game like this would take many years to develop but here it is while I exercise my imaginative 
 ways of assassinating those who exploit and manipulate the poor, and I get a chance to be political 
 about it that is; with a set of throwing knives, crafty dagger, an assassins sword as well as the 
 ring finger trigger knife. 
  
  The graphics are just unbelievable. As soon as the suns lightings shine across the city of Jerusalem, 
 you will think its picture perfect. Even my mom thought it was real. Graphically, its the biggest 
 achievement i've ever seen in the history of gaming to date.
  
  As for the Music soundtrack by Jesper Kyd, its got the Holy, suspense, levitating distinctive feel 
 to it. Spiritually driven I must say. It really captures the cinematic view for gamers and it does 
 a fantastic job at it. 
  
  Despite the repeptitivenes with the rest of the missions it is still highly enjoyable regardless. 
 If you're the type of person who loves to leap around tall buildings, climb virtually on every 
 single piece of structure, killing those who deserve to be killed as the heroic assassin, and at 
 the same time appreciate the work put into the environment and music; this is definetly a game 
 you do NOT want to miss out. 
  
  Ubisoft, thanks for making this game possible !
  
  Gameplay: 10 (Fighting system with the combo kills are utterly addictive)
  Graphics: 9.5 ( I 
 thought i was actually there)
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the best action/adventure game ive played on the xbox 360. You play as Altair, 
 an assassin (obivously) , and you have to assissinate the people that are assigned to you. As you 
 assassinate each leader you gain and upgrade/new weapon. Now i will go into more detail.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are fantastic. Some of the best graphics i have ever seen.
  
  Sound: 
 Nice. The sound effects work well with everything and it sounds great.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun. You can kill anyone you see if you want. The interrogations are fun but, some 
 can get very frustrating. Its free roaming which is really fun by itself IMO.
  
  Controls: Different than anyother game ive played. They are extremely unique and really add to 
 the gameplay.
  
  Lasting Appeal: This game is lenthy but, for me at least, it was so good i couldnt stop playing 
 it and i beat it within a week. Nothing special once you beat it though so i am pretty much done 
 with it. 
  
  To conclude: This game is really good but the problems are: it gets repetitious at points and once 
 you beat it theres really noting left to do.
  
  BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed
  Xbox 360
  
  Assassin's Creed this is the best game in the world. Let give you a little insite to the story, 
 so Assassin's Creed is set in the year 1191 AD during the brutal times of the third crusade. You 
 will play as a top assassin called Altar and its your job to stop war happenig in the Holy Lands. 
 The story will take you though three hugh citys, taking down the top nine men contected with an 
 ancient conspiracy. What makes this game so unquie is the gameplay, its 100% freerom and the other 
 thing is how you finish your objective you will plan your attack and then you have to plan you 
 escape which at first is easy but as the gruads become more awear you will have to realy fight 
 your way free.
  
  Weapons in this game are not the biggest section you ever see but the one they give you can be 
 use to change the outcome of an escape or a fight. The weapon you are equit with are the sword 
 whicth is the strongest weapon in the game, The hidden blade which will be the main weapon that 
 you assassinate with, Short blade whitch is pretty much the sword but not a powerful but comes 
 up with a higher kill ratio and last but not least the throwing knife which is your only range 
 weapon.
  
  The story line is very good with twist and turn which make this game what it is, the only bad thing 
 about the story is its very confusing at the end. Another thing that make this game unquie is what 
 ever you do effects the the towns people. The controlles work prefectly and the graphic are beautful 
 with a few visual glitches.
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed's is one of the best game on the market, the only things that will change 
 you mind on this is the confusing story ending and the first two missions but after that you will 
 want to finish the game. I would recommended this to eneyone would loves game where you have to 
 think about your actions or if your looking for a great single player game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  gameplay: 9/10
  graphics: 9/10
  sound: 10/10
  value: 10/10
  reviewer's tilt: 10/10
  
  Nothing is true, everything is permitted", is what Al Mualim, an Assassin's master said.
 
  Assassin's Creed is a game that I'm sure most of us have been waiting impatiently and so we have 
 it, a huge, open-ended stealth action game with great main character Altair and veeeery complicated 
 story, which was throughout needlessly. That's why I'm gonna tell about the story first.
  So, the world where Altair lived is Israel, year 1191, a third crusade. Altair is an Assassin, 
 he belongs to the brotherhood but the main thing is in the year 2012 (probably USA) where Miles 
 Desmond a barkeeper, an Altair's descendant lives. In 1191 Altair failed his mission and didn't 
 collect the Templar's treasure what was very important. Now, in 2012 a scientist build the Animus, 
 a machine which is very similar to the Matrix connection. The Animus is able to pull out memories 
 from the DNA of the user, allowing the user to replay those memories as if he were there himself. 
 Miles has been kidnapped to the Abstergo Industries where is the Animus because Altair is his ancestor.
 
  So Miles with the help of the Animus change into his ancestor Altair. Don't be afraid because 
 Altair is not a virtual person created by Animus, he's not. He lived in 1191 in Israel, he must 
 lived because he is Mile's ancestor and Miles is his descendant. So Altair lived in the third crusade 
 and he has complited all the missions which Miles are compliting in Animus because Miles with Animus 
 help changed into Altair and he complited all the missions which Altair his ancestor did 800 years 
 ago. 
  So Altair lived, he is not virtual character created by Animus, he truly lived in the third crusade 
 (of course in the game) , he is Mile's ancestor, Miles changed into Altair and he is compliting 
 the same missions like Altair did in 1191. How is it possible that Miles change into his ancestor? 
 Animus read Desmond DNA, where was ancestors memory, synchronize it and teleport him to the year 
 1191. The scientist do that because he and some other people in suits want to know where is the 
 treasure now. 
  Like I said, the story is complicated but it's a really huge plus that Altair truly lived in Israel 
 in 1191 (in the game) and he complited all the missions in 1191 which Miles are doing as his ancestor. 
 Altair must truly lived (in the game) because he is Mile's ancestor and Desmond is his descendant, 
 Altair in 1191 was an assassin and he hasn't been created by Animus and he and his story is a true 
 (in the game) . He could't have been created by Animus because Altair lived in 1191, Animus wasn't 
 there, the machine only read the DNA from Miles, read his memory, that's why they know about Altair, 
 from Desmond memory. Sorry, that I'm talking about this over and over again but I want the story 
 to be clear for all of you and I want you to know that Altair truly lived in 1191 (in the game) , 
 he had to live because he is Miles ancestor, Animus didn't create him so sorry once again guys 
 (J) . So in the game we play as Miles but he changed into Altair his ancestor, with the help of 
 the Animus. Miles is doing the same things, the same missions just like Altair in the past 800 
 years ago. We can say that Animus reconstructed Altair's life and Miles as Altair is doing the 
 same things as his ancestor.
  
  Ok, how the world in 1191 looks like? It's huge, beautiful and open-ended. We have the whole kingdom 
 to explore and four cities to visit. Masyaf  a small city with huge castle where the Assassins 
 have their headquarters, Damascus  a city in the sun, Acre  a city where the war has just end 
 and Jerusalem with lots of trees around. Each city has their own atmosphere.
  As Altair we got a second chance from our master and we have to kill 9 key guys which are connected 
 with the crusades. This is the main plot but we have also small quests. Each city except Masyaf 
 has three districts  rich, middle and poor. In each district we can save the civilians from the 
 guards and then they will help us. For example when guards will chase us civilians will try to 
 stop them and etc. We can also hide in the haystacks or in the bower. It's good to help Scholars 
 because with their help we can blend with them and nobody will see us, it's very helpful if we 
 want to enter the city. There are also other assassins in the cities who are need our help with 
 killing someone and collecting the hidden flags. Each city and district has point of view, these 
 are towers where we can climb on the top and see the landscape, this will help us to find our objectives. 
 After this we can make a "Leap of Faith", skok z wysokoci wprost do stagu siana, it's really 
 impresive. To kill one of key guy we will have to make an interogations such as eavesdropping where 
 we are sitting na awce and listen what for example two guys will say about our enemy, there 
 is also pickpocket mission where we must still sakiewk for example with the map. We can get 
 to each city by horse and I must say that riding is exellent. We can even fight on the horse!
 
  I should also say that after Altair failed the mission his master Al Mualim took all his equipment 
 from him, so in the beginning we have sword, short blade and a hidden dagger. By the time playing 
 the game we will retrieve the rest of our equipment and new abillities such as counter attack.
 
  The battles in Assassin's Creed are awesome. They are similar to the Steven Seagal's movies.
 
  You will mainly fight using you counter attacks, they look really impresive and brutal. Also only 
 one opponent will attack you from the group and if you kill him then the other enemy will start 
 the fighting, as I said it's like in Seagal's movies. This makes battles a little bit easy.
  Sword and short blade are really good and when you want to kill your enemy silently you have you 
 hidden dagger. We have also small blades that can be threw by us to the enemy what makes an instant 
 kill.
  So the cities are beautiful and really huge, they are also very crowded. There are many civilians 
 on the streets and all of them have their own work to do. Some of them will buy things in the shops, 
 they will talk to each other, listen to the guy who is make a speech, all those things are very 
 realistic. 
  As Miles in the body of his ancestor we can blend in the crowd which will help us to avoid the 
 guards, there is also something named gentle push which is good if we want to pass through the 
 crowd.
  People will interest if we do some strange things such as climbing on the wall and etc. They will 
 say "What is that man doing" for example.
  The character animation is the best I have ever saw in the video games. It's simply awesome and 
 realistic, each Altair's movement are looking fantastic.
  Unfortunately the biggest minus of Assassin's Creed is the fact that the gameplay is repetetive. 
 In each city we will do the same things over and over again such as eavesdropping, pickpocketing, 
 interrogations, looking for a view points. Too bad that there aren't any weather effects like rain 
 for example and everything is by day, we will not see the whole kingdom by night, too bad because 
 I'm sure it would look really amazing.
  
  The graphics are absolutely gorgeous. The light and shadows, landscape, textures, characters, the 
 visibility of the whole cities look superb but I don't know why the trees are not moving on the 
 wind, it's strange, I can say: Hey guys we have next generation, what's going on, why the trees 
 and grass don't move on the wind?. Yeah, I think it shouldn't have place in the next gen gaming. 
 
  
  Sound effects are really good. The music has been composed by Jesper Kyd, the same guy who did 
 the music in Hitman series so it's very good. The soundtracks are atmospheric and suit to the cities 
 atmosphere. The voice-over is well done.
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is not a revolution of gaming but it still is a gorgeous game with lots 
 of cool things to do. The gameplay is repetetive and the story is unnecessarily complicated but 
 the free-roaming, great hero Altair, superb fights and the main quest with those nine key guys 
 to kill are stunning. That makes this title a must have!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grex827
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I was actually a skeptic of Assassins Creed, even after the reviews came out. A medieval free world 
 game? It didn't seem my style. However, the lack of other titles which peaked my interest which 
 I hadn't already played, and a much needed break from Halo 3, as well as a new subscription to 
 Gamefly, prompted me to give it a try.... and I'm glad I did.
  
  With going into detail about the story itself, which I found rewarding, the game is packed with 
 substance. From the aforementioned storyline, to the gorgeous landscapes highlighted by the stunning 
 graphics, to the controls, the weapons, and the worthwhile cutscenes, AC was, for me, a really 
 great experience. I enjoyed the GTA type free world, which incorporate a mission to handle, but 
 the liberty to roam the cities, pick fights, pickpocket thugs, and earn achievements. The game 
 was just plain fun. 
  
  Now if you are the type of player that just wants to beat a game, then this is probably not the 
 wisest investment for a purchase. If you are more like me, like to earn achievments and generally 
 enjoy the game in its entirety, then this is certainly a game for you.
  
  I was a little leary of how well they could pull off a medieval based game, but as I said, they 
 astonished me. One of my favorite aspects was the combo and counter kills cutscenes, which were 
 only slightly gory, well mixed, and really cool. Things like cutscenes typically get old and repetitive, 
 but I never seemed to tire of them, which is good, because counter kills, which for me was the 
 most effective killing method, happen quite often.
  
  The only pesky things I didn't care for were small things. When you approached a bench and your 
 character automatically sat down. I found that occassionally annoying. Also, as the game progresses, 
 your need for stealth also increases, adding to the challenge only slightly, but really making 
 the game slow down too much at points. At one point, I believe in Damascus, I needed to simply 
 cross the map to get my mission from the Bureau, yet found myself in numerous fights along the 
 way, while doing nothing more than walking the streets. This makes sense as part of the overall 
 story, but proves to be more of a pain at times than anything.
  
  Overall a really great game, which I highly recommend. As far as single player type games over 
 the last few years, this game and Bioshock are tops for me. I'd say if you enjoyed one, you will 
 enjoy the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The reason why I gave Assassin's Creed an 8.0 is because it's a great experience in its own right, 
 and Gamespot is spot on in saying that it's a game you'll remember for years to come. But other 
 than that, Assassin's Creed falls flat on its face as a game worth buying. 
  
  You'll love the graphics - the level design, the draw distance, the huge sprawling cities of the 
 Crusade-period middle east, the fluid animations on the part of Altair and his opponents. 
  
  The story is like Lost in that it's intriguing yet mysterious, delving into the metaphysical 
 while maintaining pseudo-scientific elements.
  
  Your dagger sinking into an unknowing soldier's back sounds great, and the voiceovers - while cheesy 
 and riddled with slightly pathetic attempts at middle eastern and british accents - get the job 
 done.
  
  The gameplay is fluid, allowing you to leap from building to building and quickly transition from 
 climbing and platforming - which you'll be doing a LOT of - to full-blown scimitar-on-scimitar 
 combat. However, the entirety of the control scheme is plotted to four or five buttons on the xbox 
 360 controller, which makes the game just a tad too easy and uninvolved.
  
  Now here's the place in which Assassin's Creed falls from a 9.0 to an 8.0 in my book - it's over 
 so damn soon! The main storyline will take you a little over 10 hours to complete, and there is 
 side content, but those quests consist simply of assassinating generic templars and gathering flags 
 in major cities, both of which don't offer much incentive besides a few dozen gamerpoints and a 
 broader tour of the beautiful environments in the game. 
  
  Although Assassin's Creed is an awesome game, it's not worth $50. The game is over too soon and 
 leaves you with a cliffhanger ending that answers none of the questions you're presented with. 
 However, you should make it your priority as a gamer to go out and rent this game ASAP. It's an 
 amazing feat of cinematic artistry that you can only experience firsthand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldrian
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Man, I usually know exactly what to pick in the 'classification' field, but not for this game. 
 I want to pick so many, I'll just list a few of the ones that fit perfectly: Boring, Dissapointing, 
 Don't believe the hype, overrated, rip-off, total letdown, waste of time, NOT worth the wait.
 
  
  Who ever reviewed this for gamespot should be banned from ever writing anything about gaming ever 
 again. What a sellout. The review is RIDICULOUS. What did he do, call UBISOFT and ask them what 
 to write?!
  This game isn't a 9, that's a joke. A bad joke. If this game is a 9 then prince of persia is like 
 12, Hitman is maybe 15 and Ninja Gaiden is 20. Gamespot scores are so inflated it hurts.
  
  This game should be the DEFINITION of 'all flash no substance'. It's got flash, it's got alot of 
 flash - the game is incredibly beautiful. Problem is that's all there is to it. This game is all 
 built around the sense that assassins are cool. You know, like those really poor sniper games based 
 on... guess what, that snipers are cool. Don't get me wrong, this game is cool, you'r an assassin 
 and you'r cool. There's just this one tiny little problem... the game s*x.
  
  Why am I even wasting my time writing a review for this? I'm not sure, maybe because trashing this 
 game is 1 billion times more entertaining than playing it. Or maybe I'm writing this hoping to 
 save you the dissapointment of buying this, installing it while biting your nails over the insane 
 system requirements, then moan yourself through the uninspired, unnecessary, and boring tutorial 
 just to realise that... hey... that's all there is to it? 
  
  I'm not kidding! After playing through the tutorial you've pretty much done everything there is 
 to do in this game. You stab some guy, hide in a haystack, then you do it all over. Again, I'm 
 not kidding, besides just running til you hit new mexico you got the option to hide in 3 or 4 different 
 ways. One of those ways... is hiding in a haystack! Please...
  
  
  The good:
  Amazing graphics
  I heard it has a good story (who cares... read a book)
  
  The bad:
  Boring
 
  repetitive
  did I say it's repetitive?
  Easy and dumbed down close to being childish.
  non-existant rpg-elements
  close to non-existant interaction.
  Insane system requirements, 
 who the hell ported it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANGERMAX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft really went all out with this one, as far as story goes. When I first started the game, 
 I was a bit confused as to what I was supposed to be doing and where I was supposed to be going, 
 and was fairly disappointed my first hour or so in-game. But as the story developed, I found myself 
 unable to put the game down, despite it's somewhat repetative gameplay.
  
  The story goes back and forth between modern times and 1191 A. D. I don't want to reveal too much, 
 but it really will make you think. It's almost DaVinci Code-ish, with its religious references 
 and mysteries. It has a potential to be epic, depending on where the next two games take us.
  
  You will find yourself repeating the same tasks throughout the various "stages" of the game, 
 which does get kind of annoying. But like I said before, the story thoroughly makes up for it. 
 
  
  And one more note on the story, if you don't LOOK for it, there won't really be one. I believe 
 you can play through the entire game without realizing much of the Modern Day story, especially 
 at the end. How many people have actually gotten the last secret achievement? Based on the bad 
 reviews I've read here, I'm guessing not many.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dms286
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an aswome game because there is all this stuff you can do and even if you beat 
 the game you can go back and beat it again because there are so many ways you can do a mission 
 and get the information to start the assassin mission. You can esvedrop, pickpoket and interragat. 
 The wepons you get threew out the game are all good because each one has it own time when it will 
 be the best to use. For example the thoughing knives are good when you are on a roof top and a 
 guard sees you and the short blade is good when fitghing a lot of people at once (which the short 
 blade is my fav. :) ) . Also all the wepons are swrod, hidden blade, throughing knives (5,10,15) and 
 the short blade.
  
  The story is great acceopt the ending because it is really confusioing thats why I didn't give 
 it a 10. There are 9 people you most take out to redeem your self for the thigs you have done. 
 Each one gets harder and harder. Some of them you can sneak up on them and assassinate them or 
 chasse them down and kill them in a fight. One more thing is that you have to do veiwpoints to 
 find where your invetegations are and there are side missoins like saving cizztions. Well that 
 it all there is to assassin's creed it is one of the besst games for the X360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pudlis16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  The first time I heard Assassin's Creed was coming out, it was the summer of 2006. I just couldn't 
 wait for this game, I had a feeling it would be revolutionary. Well, it is! There is just so much 
 to say about Assassin's Creed. First of all, It's one of my favorite games for the 360. I at first 
 found the controlls odd, but I later got used to them, and they became very fun. The storyline 
 is great, and the medieval setting is awesome, though the futuristic parallel story is quite lame, 
 and unnecessary. The cities you'll explore, which are Acre, Jerusalem, and Damascus, feel alive, 
 as they are full of breathing civilians, soldiers, thieves, beggars (who can be quite annoying) , 
 drunks, town criers, and merchants. Everything seems quite in place, as some soldiers harass civilians, 
 merchants try to make sales, beggars come and ask for money, and drunks try to attack you (which 
 can break your cover during a stealth assassination.)
  The only bad parts of Assassin's Creed are the end and the parallel story. The parallel Story is 
 quite irrelevent, as you play the distant relative of Altair (the medieval Assassin and protaganist 
 of the game) , who lives in the year 2012, and is hooked up to a machine that relievs his ancestor's 
 (Altair) memories. I can't give the ending away, as it would spoil the game, but it isn't too great.
 
  But in the end, don't let the bad discourage you from buying the game, By all means, this is one 
 of the best games of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft Montreal once again presented us a awesome action cum stealth based game ASSASSINS CREED 
 .
  
  Desmond Miles of recent times is kept under Animus Facility where he has to recall his assassin 
 ancestors roles and memories before sciencetists during the third crusade period .Needless to say 
 Animus facility deals in such strange experiements but to what end ? .The player assumes the role 
 of ALTAIR , the main protagonist of the game who is a master assassin in 1191 A. D .Altair under 
 his leader's command Al Mulaim has to assasinate nine primary targets to regain his lost honour 
 amongst his assassins brotherhood .
  
  Altair is a master assassin who keeps stealth and disguise easily .He can blend his way into restricted 
 areas by floowing group of scholars pretending to be one of them. Altair has four set of weapons 
 in his slots like one long sword , dagger , hidden dagger and throwing knives .After being dishonoured 
 at starting of the game , altair loses all his master assassin skills , but he can regain them 
 all by killing his preys .To increase your health bar slots you have to save civilians and climb 
 view points (towers) to synchronise with your surroundings .As side objectives you can collect 
 flags lying around / partially hidden in the whole kingdom as fun objectives or to gain more Xbox 
 360 acheivement points .Al Mulaim sends Altair to three main primary destinations to seek out his 
 assassination targets say ACRE , DAMASCUS and JERUSALEM. Altair can ride his horse to any of the 
 kingdoms .Before getting to your prey You have to contact the citys assassins bureau to find about 
 your assassins targets whereabouts .To do this you need to complete at least three of your six 
 investigations in the city .They are like pickpocketing , roughing up (forceful interrogation) 
 , listen to a conversation , stealth assassination , collecting required number of flags within 
 timer Etc .You have to access view points to know thier whereabouts .
  
  Altair can climb tall bildings , jump between gaps , use hidden dagger for a swift but stealth 
 kill ,use tons sword combos , hide in haystacks for low profile when wanted from city patrols etc 
 .
  
  Gameplay is quite lenghty , if you engage in side objectives .Don't worry you get a map for your 
 objectives in the vast kingdom .
  
  Only con of the game is levels may get repititive as same maps , objectives again and again .
 
  
  ASSASSINS CREED graphics / visuals rocks .The game gives you the perfect environment for the third 
 crusade period .
  
  AI is smart .
  
  Soundquality of the game rocks .
  
  The games voiceactings , characters facial animations very nicely done.
  
  Overall i recommend 
 Assassins Creed to everybody .Unfortunately the game lacks multiplayer , but its rich single player 
 mode makes up for it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I was blown away by this game. It reminded me of the absolute blast I had when I played the original 
 Tomb Raider when it came out for the PS. This game looks amazing by today's gaming standards the 
 way that Tomb Raider looked amazing by the gaming standards of its generation. Each game brings 
 something new to the table. Each game uses a great foundation and then adds great things on top 
 of it. The gameplay is fluid and the controls are a blast to use. 
  The environments are the best part of this game. There are tons of NPC's wandering around. The 
 cities look and feel like real cities. I would play this game for a few hours if all I could do 
 was walk around and admire the amount of detail that went into making this world.
  The characters and voice acting are great as well. With the exception of one or two characters, 
 nothing is done over the top. It feels right. 
  Everything plays right except for the end of this game. Don't worry, I am not giving up any spoilers 
 in a review. The end seems as it was haphazardly thrown together. Why do game companies feel the 
 need to not end a game they are going to make a sequel for? In the movies, it's no problem. Look 
 at the Indiana Jones movies for example. You don't have to see all of them to get what is going 
 on. They work as a group and they stand on their own. More games need to take this route. I was 
 really frustrated with the ending of this game. There was no big bang for my $60 to get a sense 
 of accomplishment. They could have taken this game 1 or 2 levels further and really ended it well, 
 while also letting it lead into the next game. This really affects how I score this game. This 
 game however, is worth playing all of the way through. It's just that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samdunkthefunk
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  this is a great all round game it really is. but the quests are the same over and over. you get 
 the feather then you get the info. to get info do small missions these include interaction, ease 
 dropping, informers tasks or pick pocketing. to find the location of these you go the eagle eye 
 view points then synchronize you will find at least one. once u have a combination of three missions 
 then you go back to the place where u get the feather and then you go on your way to the boss once 
 you kill him you basically u do that again. there are 3 cities and 9 quests. only the ending is 
 different. 
  
  also once you get the counter attack (around the 2nd and 3rd quest) you really cant be beaten. 
 you hold block and you cant hit, then hit attack when they attack hit and counter. 
  
  now the problems are out of the way i will tell why its so great.
  
  the game play is amazing 
 some of the best in world so far. the story is great as well and the facts its based on are very 
 accurate. the side missions are fun the just mindless killing of the innocence and guards are fun. 
 even after the game is done you still have some little things to try and get so its still fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneMercenary08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game did everything right. The story mode was confusing at first (with the animus and all 
 that) but i know when that first happened, I wanted to keep playing to see what happens next. Assassin's 
 Creed gameplay is great; the way you have to get information on your next target and there are 
 so many different "ways" to kill your target. 
  
  The one minor thing about this game is that after a while, the game starts to get repetitive. Sure, 
 when you first get the game, everything is great, but once you've put some major hours into this 
 game, all the cities start to look alike and you just can't find anything more to do.
  
  All in all, I believe this game is a must-buy. The gameplay, graphics, and everything else about 
 this game it superb. I am really glad I waited and got this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  The visuals in this game are out of control, though the missions might repeat a lot, I still have 
 loads of fun with this game. It takes me away from playing all the first-person shooters I so love 
 to play, it changes the pace. And the concept is much different from what anyone else is trying 
 to throw out there right now. I'm pretty sure I heard that they are making this into a trilogy, 
 if so I hope they do and make each one 10 times more amazing. This game deserves 2 thumbs, and 
 I seriously believe that everyone should at least gives this game some type of play, if you have 
 to just rent it first, its definetly worth a try. The game does start off slow, but thats something 
 that can be looked past, and there are tons of other things you can do, take out the templars, 
 collect all the flags. It gets you to try and do other stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariotonna
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed seemed to me a really worthwhile purchase; 9.0 is a particularly admirable score.
 
  
  And when you first play the game, you can see exactly why. The graphics really are amazing. Granted, 
 the animation isn't AS smooth as it could be but you rarely notice these things.
  
  But after a couple of missions, it hits you and slowly starts to sink in: "I've already done this.". 
 Every single mission consists of you sneaking into a city (Using the exact same method every time) , 
 performing a couple of menial tasks, performing an assassination (a bit clumsy, imo) , rinse and 
 then repeat.
  
  Seriously, that's your lot in terms of gameplay. You can sort of roam around and gawk at the lovely 
 scenery but you can't really react with anything in the world and as soon as you do something remotely 
 interesting, the guards come after you. A few pretty combos and you've killed them all. Again, 
 back to square one.
  
  In conclusion, nice to play round your friend's house for a bit but this noticeably easy game quickly 
 loses it's appeal in around 2-3 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringlemin
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  While at first this game is very promising it gets painfully repetitive and slow. It is never really 
 that hard once you get a hang of the controls it is one of the easiest games that you can buy. 
 What new and innovative stuff that the game includes gets old rather quickly. Also the story never 
 really worked for me and the ending was such a disappointment I literally threw my controller across 
 the room. having said that there are a few nice elements in the mix. I never got tired of jumping 
 of the high ledges for the "leap of faith." I spent a lot of time playing this game I even went 
 back to get some of the achievements I missed but, overall it started out good and then it got 
 progressively worse. What starts out as new and exciting gets old and boring all too fast. This 
 is by far one of the most disappointing games I have played, I expected so much and it delivered 
 so little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_DZA
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  It takes a special kind of critic or gamer to see the beauty in this beast by Ubisoft Montreal. 
 All the rest of us are left wondering what the big deal is anyway. I think its pretty clear that 
 the positives you are hearing about this game are largely not related to the game, but either in 
 the case of the media a kowtowing to a darling designer and major publisher; and in the case of 
 gamers a collective hype that refuses to admit maybe we bought into the hype.
  
  The game has some redeeming qualities, for one the art direction and graphics, that while not terribly 
 unique, are well executed and technically proficient. The gameplay mechanics are generally tight, 
 but a little unbalanced. All that matters very little in the face of horrible design choices. Assassin's 
 Creed has a bundle of ideas and nowhere to put them. At first you bounce back and forth between 
 confusing tutorials that attempt to weave the gameplay mechanics into the story, but really succeed 
 only in showing you what appears to be a set of arbitrary button mechanics for such things as walking 
 slow with your heard down. The result of the early game, at least for me was a horrible feeling 
 of helplessnes with the pacing of the game that lasted far too long and left a bad feeling that 
 this game was not what I thought it was. 
  
  Pretty soon the developers loosen the restraints a little, and you are free to roam the beautiful 
 world of Assassin's Creed. The only problem with this is not that you are free, there is really 
 very little to do. This portion of the game is a sandbox without anything to keep the player busy. 
 Sure you can run around and startle the peons, and the guards, but there is no purpose in this, 
 and even to do so seems out of character considering the theme of the game. By the way, the much 
 hyped crowds in Assassin's Creed are very disapointing. Sure there are a lot of people in the cities, 
 but the behaviour and feel of the generic people that make up these cities, when interacted with, 
 reminds me more of a school of fish than a crowd of people. With all the people on the screen at 
 once, its very unconvinicing to see several people respond to your action with the same similtanous 
 animation.
  
  I could go on and on about stuff you have already heard, generic rinse and repeat missions, etc. 
 Bottom line, this game is worthly of a rental just to confirm for yourself that you are not missing 
 out, but honestly the community with the expcetion of a few people got this one dead wrong.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalchubbs45
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  
  Assassins's creed at first looked amazing especilly since all anyone saw was the cool openning 
 sequence that was ever so promising. But all we got was an empty promise this may be the oon eof 
 the most boring games i have played. the graphics were good and the story was good but the combat 
 sucked! and the falling of the big buildings into hay bines was not as exciting as it could have 
 been and all the mission you have to do b4 an assassination are eztremely boring and pickpocketing 
 is way to simple no complexity to it at all and the ending was kind cool but way too much of a 
 cloffhanger honestly i dont care about the sequal i dont think it will be good either all thsi 
 game has to offers is good graphics and a waste of time and dont expect any replay value cause 
 there is none honestly there are tons of better games out there dont waste your time on this one 
 its way overrated! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondiBlue
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is the type of game I hoped for when I first heard about the 360 being developed. The 
 story at the beginning was a little tedious, I didn't realize how great they would make the ending. 
 If you are playing this game now, don't stop for any reason because this game has one of the best 
 endings and it makes me excited for the rest of the series.
  
  Normally I avoid platforming like the plague because of one too many deaths on the Genesis because 
 I would either jump too far or not far enough on ledges. This game requires Altair to scale massive 
 buildings and jump from roof to roof, but the thing is, they make the jumps feel flawless and if 
 Altair somehow falls then he'll grab onto a ledge. 
  
  The battle system is really great because of the parrying and counters. There is nothing more fun 
 than being surrounded by eight enemies and knowing that they don't have a chance because you're 
 the master combatant. The tasks that are assigned might get repetitive, but they're really fun 
 to do. If you see a woman getting harassed by numerous men, throw some knives at them to deplete 
 their numbers or just run in with your hand blade to tackle one stabbing him in the neck before 
 standing up to fight them all. Numerous ways to take on your enemies.
  
  The control settings were criticized, but anyone should get the hang of them quickly and eventually 
 it will seem really natural to perform all of Altair's moves. The game is absolutely beautiful 
 and I wouldn't have them change a thing, even though it is funny to think of Altair as a master 
 acrobat, assassin, and fearless, yet he can't even swim. I am anxiously awaiting its sequels and 
 can't wait to see what other great games they have in store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  If you have at least a passing interest in games you've most certainly heard of Assassin's creed, 
 the multiplatform success comparable to major games such as Madden and Guitar Hero. With that said, 
 it wont be surprising if some aproach Assassin's Creed with some doubts, but rest assured Assassin's 
 Creed is a thrilling game that one should at least play.
  
  I wont go into any story details I'll just say that if your a fan of Metal Gear you'll deffinatly 
 dig Assassin's Creed's tale. Is full of themes ypu'd expect from a game like Metal Gear, just in 
 a different flavor.
  
  But the stpry is not all Assassin's Creed has in common with Metal Gear, as the gameplay concetrates 
 on stealth (also in a different flavor) . Rather than wearing camoflauge and hiding in boxes though 
 you use the croud to conceal you. Your bassically play a midevil hitman as many have described 
 it. Through out the game your set out into several famous towns of the mid evil times to assassinate 
 particular people. Although it's not as simple as just walking up to some guy and stabbing him. 
 I did like how the game seperated it's action types. You can to low profile and high profile action. 
 The default is low profile (as in your action do not call much atttention to you) and with the press 
 of the X button you can do high profile action (mostly meant for combat or run away from baddies) . 
 The path to each target is different. Regardless though, the game does manage to get repetitve 
 at times. Combat moves are all done with just the X button (although there are plenty of different 
 attacks and combat styles) , but the game never really throw any enemies at you that are much of 
 a challenge. And with the ability "counter" that allows you to automatically kill an enemy right 
 as they attack you, fights can get very reptitive and Too easy. Luckily, the game is more about 
 stealth and quick and silent assassinations that this shouldnt really hamper the action. It's also 
 a good thing that it's very fun to run away to because the game is all about just finding your 
 own way through the town so there any number of way to escape from gaurds, like joining in to a 
 froup of schoars and blending in with them, sitting on a bench, looking like anybody else or hiding 
 in hay stacks. That asside the side mission are also pretty predictable and. You always know theres 
 going to be the pick pocket mission, the interegation, kill the gards for the wimp and the missions 
 where you listen on some random guys confersation. These are all fun and well done, the only problem 
 is that its all very predictable. Making your way to the assassionation targets is an adventure 
 in itself though as you can decide what the best route is and the climbing in this game is fun 
 enough to make a game out of in it'self (similar to Tomb Raider and Shadow of the Colossus) . As 
 for the enemy AI... There was alot of potnential lost here. specialy for this kind of game. It's 
 not horrible. It's just that it cpuld have been better and at times it's very questionable. Like 
 why is it while I ride a horse in the kingdom that if Im going anything more than three miles per 
 hour everyone around me acts like I just murdered a little girl or somthing? The Ai just doesn't 
 put up a good fight either. They keep things in interesting though.
  
  Assassin's Creeds graphics are amazing, really. It's insane to see such level of detail in a game 
 with such scale. Easily the best looking game I've played on the 360 since Gears of War. And the 
 animations are second to none. The only problems that I can really pick out are some occasional 
 late loading textures and not quite as food animation for some of the town folk. The game looks 
 great though. On standard and HD (especially) .
  Assasin's Creed has some great voice acting, no doubt and the music is fitting. Nothing that'll 
 blow you way or anything, but it's fitting. And the sound effects are greath
  
  Assassin's Creed's biggest weakness is the value. While Assassin's Creed is an excelent game, it's 
 only around twevle hours long. And your paying sixty bucks for it. Beyond the twelze hour main 
 quest there really isn't much. You might play a few more hours for a hanful of achievements you 
 might have missed but theres nothing much to do. The only sides quests you have after beating the 
 game is collecting a buch of flags and killing templars. Nothing that justifies the price really. 
 There is no multiplayer to speak of and there wont be any downloadable content. So once you've 
 finished the game, you've finished.
  
  Some people may be satified with the game. it is fun. But others will be turned out by the large 
 price with little return. If this game doesnt sound like it's worth sixty dollars I still incourage 
 you to at least rent it. The story is pretty awsome, and it's very fun despite it's reptitive nature. 
 And the game certainly deserves sequel (that hopefully makes some ground in the area of value) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an open-ended and very story-driven game that takes the best from Grand Theft 
 Auto, Thief and Prince of Persia. Unfortunately the developers should have played Ninja Gaiden 
 to see how a great combat system is done properly.
  
  The game has two different storylines or layers in it. First is the present where you play as Desmond 
 Miles, a bartender that has been taken as some kind of prisoner in a weird experiment or investigation: 
 he has to place himself into a machine called the Animus, which allows one to see into his own 
 genetic memory. In this case it means that most of the time you will play as Desmond's ancestor 
 Altar ibn La-Ahad (The Flying One, Son of None in Arabic according to Wikipedia) in Middle-East 
 during the Third Crusade, which is to say around 1191 AD. Altar has to assassinate 9 different 
 influential persons, but all the time he has the feeling that there's more involved than just these 
 simple assassinations. This game is the first in a new franchise and unfortunately you can see 
 that in the story: Altar's story comes to a moderate conclusion, but Desmond's fate leaves the 
 player guessing. In some ways Assassin's Creed raises more questions than answers in terms of its 
 story.
  
  Graphics are great and after this I'm scared to play Zelda Twilight Princess again: it's just that 
 good to look at comparing the regular Wii graphics. You have 3 big cities to explore (Damascus, 
 Acre and Jerusalem) . All of them are full of life and there are no loading times between different 
 sections of the city. This gives the player a seamless experience just like in Grand Theft Auto 
 and it is a good thing. There are hundreds of people walking in the streets, the draw distance 
 is very good and still the frame never takes a hit. Or actually it did just once in the whole 10 
 to 15 hour experience.
  
  Sound plays an important part in Assassin's Creed, because it needs to create an atmosphere of 
 a living and breathing city and for the most part it does just this. Some of the dialog of the 
 street people can get a little old after a while, but other than that there is no complaint about 
 the sound effects or music. Unfortunately for some reason there is no subtitles what so ever and 
 this is a huge disappointment, because in a story-driven game you obviously want to follow the 
 story.
  
  Gameplay is, as I said earlier, an open-ended exploring in a big city. Your job is to save citizens 
 in trouble and to perform investigations in order to plan your assassination properly. These investigations 
 are eavesdropping for info, pick pocketing maps and other intel and also interrogation, which means 
 that you need to beat someone with your fists until he gives you the information you need. After 
 this you will get your order, perform the actual assassination and escape. You'll notice very early 
 that this is the pattern the game follows nearly all the way through and it can get a bit boring 
 unless you play for example one assassination per game session.
  
  In order to find points to progress the story you need to climb high up to a view point to get 
 a wide view of your surroundings. It's here that you'll notice that most of the developing time 
 has gone to a challenge of designing a big city. After getting the info from a view point you can 
 jump down and land into a haystack. This feature of the game never gets old.
  
  Social stealth is a new feature, which means that in order to escape you need to take cover or 
 blend into the crowd. This is done either by joining a group of scholars walking in the city or 
 by sitting to bench between 2 people. It's nice to hide in the open instead of always running into 
 some dark corner.
  
  The worse thing in Assassin's Creed is its combat system: it's clunky, slow and nearly unresponsive. 
 In time you'll learn to use it so that you may finish the game, but it will irritate you all the 
 way through. As soon as things get hairy and precise and fast actions are needed the game becomes 
 a frustrating struggle. This game just isn't meant to be a fighting game, but unfortunately towards 
 the end you'll find yourself more and more in big fights.
  
  There are some annoying problems in Assassin's Creed, but in the end it's still an experience I 
 recommend you to have, if you like games like Grand Theft Auto, Thief and Prince of Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermike86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  The game starts off great, the movement in Assassin's Creed is great. You can climb anything punch 
 or stab anyone. Ok as you can tell I did really like this game to begin with. That of course was 
 when things were new and fresh. After awhile you start doing the same minigames over and over again. 
 Go easys drop on this guy, go save that person over their, steal some knifes, and so on and so 
 on. I got so tried of doing the same things over and over again i put game down and now it has 
 about an inch and half of dust on it. Everyone should play this game, but they should only play 
 the first three to four missions. Every missions after the first is the same thing, but you really 
 do need to see each land. There are only three places for you to do each mission. So like i said 
 and will say again, do the first three missions and the game will be the same after that. The are 
 a total of nine missions and if you really want to see the ending, look it up on youtube because 
 they couldn't even get that right. I really have to give this game two different scores, one for 
 the first 10 hours of the game and the second for what ever is left. The first 10 hours gets a 
 9, eventhing is fresh and beautiful. But of course the rest of the game comes in and I give that 
 a 6.5. It just got so boring. Overall this game is a rent not a buy, so have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rowr14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed, to love or hate?
  
  Any discussion about Assassins creed seems to be doomed to people arguing over whether it is good 
 or not, obviously relative to expectations. It seems to be one of those love or hate games. I personally 
 thought i would hate it after reading the reviews, and it turned out to be one of my recent favourite 
 games.
  
  I think a part of the problem was the hype surrounding it until release, the fact that some people 
 will outright hate that your playing in a simulator instead of real life (its not a spoiler if 
 its the first thing in the game you learn) , and the opinion that the gameplay is repetitive.
  
  But something only becomes repetetive once you get sick of doing it.
  
  I made it through 
 the game before i had, had enough - and before I had totally mastered the combat, the climbing 
 and jumping from roof tops was enjoyable to the end.
  
  I really think if you try and play this game hurriedly (like most reviewers) , your going to get 
 sick of it fast. Its definitely a game where you take your time, read the bits of info you collect 
 to prepare for the assassination, and then do it. The assassinations mix it up plenty to make it 
 fun and intriguing, and if you challenge yourself (achievements - Full Health for each kill etc) 
 you can get past the fact the game is to easy and focus on being totally badass. Which is one of 
 the things that makes this game awesome at times, there are moments when you will feel like a total 
 badass.
  
  There have been a few complaints out there that this is not a true, stealth game. Well its not 
 really. I guess by saying its not true stealth is just basically saying it can be a little to easy. 
 At first i spent alot of time being inconspicuous, blending into crowds of monks, gently pushing 
 past people, avoiding guards like the plague. Which was all well and good and added much to the 
 games atmosphere, as it was more exciting feeling the guards eyes on me and when i did actually 
 piss off the guards having to haul ass in exhilirating chase. This was conclusive to those feelings 
 of being badass.
  
  Unfortunately these were limits i was putting on myself with the use of imagination. As i progressed 
 i found it was actually terribly easy to evade the guards, and even if they did catch me, they 
 didnt stand much chance against my blade. The last third of the game i spent running non stop everywhere. 
 Which was still ok, because its still slightly fun to be chased, and i enjoyed the process of mastering 
 the combat, i was still having fun. I was still enjoying the gameplay mechanics, even though i'd 
 unfortunately lost the atmosphere. Im assuming for many people once they get past that initial 
 atmosphere, perhaps the gameplay just isnt appealing to them.
  
  The combat has apparently been much lifted from a previous prince of persia game (i havent played) . 
 I found it to be a pretty good system, aside from just randomly hacking and slashing (which you 
 can do) the game rewards effective use of countering. You unlock moves as you go which brings depth 
 as you progress, adding grab counters etc.
  
  The story was also far more intriguing than i thought it would be and kept me eager to see where 
 the hell it was going, (aside from an obvious plot twist) . It can sometimes be a little confused 
 in its attempt to be thought provoking, but its there. The greater story (outside the simulator) 
 is, uniqe and Intriguing, Im onboard for the sequel so i can get some questions answered. Its like 
 Lost.
  
  As far as it not being revolutionary, thats a pure falsity. Graphically Its pretty tight and polished. 
 Although the Animation and the acrobatics are what really stand out. I cant obviously relate the 
 game to anything else, its not GTA (not every game needs to be GTA btw) , It has some similar elements 
 as crackdown, but really they are very different games.
  
  I was content with the ending, although certainly wouldnt have been had i not known to wait through 
 the credits, after which the game lets you snoop around a bit scavenging tidbits to try and peice 
 together some back/future story. Well it's sucked me in.
  
  Now to sit and wait for the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Wow, I'm still there!! My head is still lost in the awe of standing on spires and temple tops looking 
 out over the ancient cities of Damascus and Jerusalem. Stunning.
  
  The buzz of the roof top runs, the sheer brutality of the 10 on 1 sword fights. An involving story 
 with enough intrigue to keep my attention and an ambivalnet and arrogant lead character who you 
 aren't too sure about. You can almost see the evolution of the game as the developers met the limits 
 of the game and just kept pushing.
  
  It isn't perfect, but then no game is, but the sheer wonder taht it has inspired in me is something 
 I don't usually find outside of great literature. This really is an achievement of vision, artistic 
 skill and technicla excellence.
  
  I really cannot recommend it enough, and I know that sounds gushy, but as a poster for why exactly 
 we forked out all this cash for the supposed "next-gen" it is faultless. The graphics alone are 
 worth admission (and I'm no graphics whore) and the hub world can be explored for days on end. 
 These are individual facets of a huge picture though and one I'm itching to get home and dive back 
 into.
  
  I can't believe I almost missed this because of snotty reviewers elsewhere. Gamespot once again 
 nailed the score.....
  
  AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugonne
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Altair, a medieval assassin, is somehow related to a present time investigation on his current 
 descendant. Sounds a little confusing, doesn't it? Well, that's the main charm within Assassin's 
 Creed: a great, somewhat confusing and very intriguing story, that added to some of the best graphics 
 seen so far on a 360 game and very intuitive controls, make up for the quite repetitive actions 
 you have to perform on each mission to the get your main objective completed: get the kill, and 
 escape out of the crime scene alive.
  
  Even though the game doesn't have a lot of replay value, it's definitely worth playing. The story 
 is fantastically written, and the city characters look very real, despite the fact that all of 
 them seem to speak the same lines all the time. For the ending (not trying to spoil any thing here) , 
 let's just say, most definitely there will be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: double_dos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This was an AWSOME game, one of the best, if not the best game ive ever played. The ONLY problem 
 i had with it was a glitch at the end. On one of the last levels where you hunt down the last templar, 
 when you begin you will run down the side of a hill and come up to three gaurds with bows, it starts 
 when they dont attack you when you attack, they just stand there, then you kill them, fall threw 
 the ground, die, then when you restart the level there are 2 of you and if one of you dies so does 
 the other, and if you happen to keep you and your alter ego alive, at the end of the mission everyone 
 just stands there and you cant kill anyone, but all i did to correct this mistake was turn off 
 the xbox, stop playen for alitte while, and the next time it was perfect and i finished the game, 
 (not to brag or anything) FINISHED :) but other than that, a WONDERFUL game. BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearHead3000
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Assasians Creed is Ubisofts new franchise after its excellent succeses with games like Splinter 
 Cell, Prince of Persia, and Rainbow Six. But this game, is probably Ubisofts worst game for this 
 generation, having many problems that you will see while playing, and leaving with a dissatisfied 
 feeling in your mouth, once you realize that you just spent 12 hours of your life, and 60 dollars 
 on a game, that is just boring.
  
  Once you first enter the world of Assaians Creed, you are greeted with a turtoil teaching you all 
 of the main character, Altair's many moves. This is where you experince one of the best parts of 
 the game, which is the climbing and moving up and down building and structures. You move with your 
 right and left anoloug sticks. This is very fun, and never gets old throughout the game. After 
 this turtoil, you are greeted to the open world of 1191 AD. Everything looks good, and feels like 
 you are in the time period, but as soon as you step into this world, problems begin to occur.
 
  
  After the turtoil, you begin to start fighting, many enemies that pretty much want to murder you 
 in a hundred different ways. But the combat controls in which the game is based around are very 
 clunky, and are not fun at all. But, also in Assasians Creed, is the ability to hide, and be stealthy 
 throughout the game. This is pretty boring as well, seeing that you have to hide ontop of roof 
 top buildings, inside a hut type structure, until the enemy just gets bored of looking for you 
 and runs away. And this occurs many times, as random idiots in the game, push you, somehow making 
 the guards think that just because you were pushed, you are an assasian, and now running into the 
 hut structure again, until the enemys get bored, again. Now as I get annoyed at these random people 
 on the street for pushing me, I get upset, and punch them in the face. But, as soon as I do so, 
 I lose part of my health bar. This then makes me very angry, and want to put in another game inside 
 the 360.
  
  The story does not make up for these problems either, having you an assasian, going around killing 
 these major targets in the same three citys, having the only reason for doing so because your head 
 master had gotten upset that you failed a previous mission, and have to redeem yourself, by killing 
 9 targets. But there is a twist, you are actually a person in the 21st century, and being held 
 against your will by these scientists that are making you re-live these old experinces of you old, 
 assasian, ancestors. You are also a assasian, but somehow, can not over power an old man, wearing 
 glasses, whos only weapon is a microscope. And at the end of the game, you are treated with a terrible 
 cliff hanger that is supposed to make me buy the sequel, but only makes me hate Ubisoft, and want 
 to sell this game even more.
  
  Assasian's Creed has much potential but is not acted upon. This is a game that is overly hyped, 
 and only deserves a rental in my eyes, if anything.
  Graphics:9
  Story:3
  Controls:5
  Replay Value:2
  Value:3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_I_R
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  well i usually only ever get properly into rpg type games so didnt really have high expectations 
 of it but must say im impressed.
  the fighting was awesome n really enjoyed leaping throught the air to stab a guy in the neck n 
 wen u do counter attacks u get sum really cool bloody cut scenes of you killing people. the graphics 
 couldnt of been better as well especially wen your riding your horse and can see mountains n gorges 
 n lakes n wot not, the entire world is epic. but i can see why people think it repetitive n must 
 admit at one point i was bit annoyed n cud not be bothered with another investigation but assassinating 
 the guys was pretty gud coz they wer all different n not all repetitive. really liked the one wher 
 its sum crazy doctor guy experimenting on patients who have all gone insane but then the crazy 
 ppl who jst launch them selves at you get kinda annoying, but at first they wer pretty funny especially 
 wen u hit them^_^. 
  even though the game was kinda short i think it was the right length for the storyline so it didnt 
 get too boring. 
  collecting flags though wtf as if i can be bothered finding 100 in each city, i hope the acheivement 
 for that is huge lol
  anyway the ending was annoying n i was really gettin into the game n all, all i can say is that 
 they best bring out a 2nd one to explain it all coz im confused n it was such a cliff hanger!!! 
 you can not even begin to fathom my annoyance wen the credits came up! but overall i really enjoyed 
 it n recommend it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someNONSENSE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  The game was fun and excellent overall, but was almost ruined for me due to overly difficult boss 
 battles in memory blocks 6 and 7 (the ones where you have to fight Robert) . They were just too 
 difficult for me, being surrounded by 8-10 tough guards and Templars who surround you and pummel 
 you from all sides. I almost threw down my controller in frustration. The first Robert took me 
 like 30+ tries, the second like 20+ to beat. Too hard. It left a bitter taste in my mouth about 
 the whole game. I am going to knock a full point off my review score of the game for this alone. 
 Otherwise, it was a terrific game and well worth playing. The graphics are stunning and I loved 
 the flag collection aspects.
  
  Yes, the game has a rinse and repeat philosophy to it, but the breadth and scope of the game are 
 immense. You can't help but notice all the work that went into so many details of the game. Diving 
 off of high towers is an exhilarating experience. The large cities in this game almost beg to be 
 explored in order to collect all the flags. It would have been nice if there was more to find in 
 the cities though. It would also have been nice to have more variety in the dialog of the saved 
 citizens and beggars.
  
  All in all, this game deserves a 9.5. But I give it an 8.5 due to the frustration of certain battles 
 that drained the fun and almost made me hate the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty90012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is full of desert landscapes and the scum of the Holy Land. So why play it? You 
 play it because of the Amazing Graphics, The Deep Story, and THE FREEDOM.
  
  This is a game where, whatever you want to do you can do! You want to pickpocket? You can! You 
 want to murder? You can.
  
  This is a game that will keep your attention for hour after hour after hour.
  
  As Ign said:
 
  
  For those that haven't been following Assassin's Creed, we'll give a quick rundown of what you 
 can expect. The game takes place in the year 1191 during the Third Crusade. The main character, 
 Altair, is an assassin out to shape the course of history. Assassin's Creed is an action title 
 with stealth elements, high flying acrobatics, and intense sword combat.
  
  Oh and the Assassin's creed for the pc does look better than the one for the consoles. But not 
 enough better to make the upgrade on your pc hardware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that if your not interested in repetitive missions, a confusing ending, and 
 meager action (unless you act like a criminal) then assassins creed will not be your game. But 
 your wondering after all those bad things, why
  am i giving it a 9? I'll tell you why, Assassins creed is a beautiful well designed
  story and 
 the go-anywhere-you-want system works very well. The graphics are beautiful the fighting is excellent, 
 i don't believe in rating a game for gore but there is a lot of it. First off you start as a normal 
 guy in the future (i think somewhere in 2078) where scientists kidnap you and force you to get 
 inside
  a machine that makes you relive your ancestors memory's. So then you are able to do what is called 
 the PUPPET SYSTEM where you can control your ancestors actions. So basically it's like being in 
 a dream dreaming of your
  great great great great great great uncle who's an assassin and being able
  to relive his life 
 and control what he does. The scientists who kidnap you
  an old guy named martin or something and a girl named Lucy. There real content on trying to unlock 
 a specific memory so they can get this treasure (im sorry im forgetting the names of everything 
 in this game) . The treasure makes mortals believe in anything (supposbly they said that the treasure 
 was used to make people believe in god) . you could probably beat this game in 2-3 sittings
  but it will leave you with an incredible experience from an incredible game. Oh yeah if you don't 
 understand the end don't worry there will be a sequel a trilogy actually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game but gets quite repetitive. Each assassination is unique and they get more difficult 
 as the game moves on. As the game progesses, you gain all of your weapons and skills back allowing 
 you to learn your skills. 
  
  The acheivements for this game are also pretty easy and side missions such as finding all the flags 
 may be a nuisance because there are one hundred in each city. I got 875 acheivement points just 
 completing the game and collecting flags in 2 cities. The cities are huge and greatly detailed 
 and the environments react to what you do. There are also many suprises as you play as Desmond 
 and his ancestor Altair. In the end, some things are explained but some is left open-ended. Can 
 you say sequel? The ending was disappointing because it just stops the whole gameplay and leaves 
 you hanging. Despite that, this is one of the best single player adventures ever made.
  
  The only flaws other than the ending i have with this game is the repition of the missions and 
 variety of weapons. You are only armed with your fists, throwing knives, and two swords. It was 
 very disappointing seeing a crossbow on Altair and not being able to use it. But in the end, this 
 game is revolutionary. Two thumbs up.
  
  
  
  -Robert Score 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WideShut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games where you think, "Yeah, it's probably not that good, it 
 just seems that way." Well, you're wrong! This game is awesome, both visually and gameplay-wise. 
 Let's start on graphics. This game is complete and total eye candy. The cities are beautifully 
 designed, as well as the characters. The gameplay is cool, too, but sometimes it can get boring 
 while travelling through Kingdom or whatever. If you just ignore the long travel to your next city, 
 you will be treated to people to save, buildings to climb and guards to kill. The combat system 
 is great with a variety of moves to save your sorry butt from impalement. After completing enough 
 missions, like pickpocketing or eavesdropping, you will return to the Assassin's Bureau and be 
 given permission to kill your target. After he is dead, you escape to the Bureau and you return 
 to Masyaf. The bad points are the fact that conversations last far too long, and you are regularly 
 dragged to the present. That's right, they added a sci-fi storyline in which Desmond the bartender 
 is put onto a machine called the Animus to read his ancestor's memories through his DNA. They shoulda 
 just left that out. So basically, a graphically beautiful game with plenty of cool moments and 
 great gameplay. 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inevitable8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The glitch didn't allow me to get anymore investigations. if i climb one of the towers, sinchronize 
 and nothing happens. i tried everything. just walking around i can tell that there is an investigation 
 there but i cant start it. this realy dissapionted me. the game was also repetitive. otherwise 
 the combat and the graphics were great. later i watched the ending of the game on a channel called 
 Gameplay HD. it is still fun to go around killing people and collecting flags but that is about 
 all that you can do or try and restart the game and hope you wont come to the glitch again. Ubisoft 
 should have spent more time trying to get the glitches out. I would suggest this game to someone 
 else as long as it is'nt glitched at all. 
  hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hihi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjo513
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game was probably one of the most amazing games I have ever played. My kind of games are the 
 3rd person hack and slash combat games so this really did tickle my fancy. The character models 
 are very detailed, the cities are beautiful and the movement/flow of things are very smooth, together 
 and satisfying. Even the voice acting, in my oppinion, was supreme and kept me glued into the game. 
 My favorite part of the game was, of course, the fantastic storyline which kept you in both the 
 future and past and had BRILLIANT interactive cinimatics but I also was very impressed with how 
 entertaining the side quests with the flags and templars were. I felt that the only real problems 
 with the game was that it would freeze once in a while if I played passed 5 hours at a time, the 
 story wasn't long enough and the HORSES WOULDN'T DIE!!! But other than that, I am so amazed at 
 the thrill ride and guilty enjoyment this game gave me while I ran into a huge crowd of knights 
 and soldiers with my sword and took them all down. To conclude, this was a great solid game and 
 I can't wait till the 2nd game. If you are a fan of kicking major templar butt, this is the game 
 for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zndr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed
  
  Graphics 9.0
  Audio 8.5
  Gameplay 8.0
  Value 7.5
  Tilt 9.0
  
  Overall i really like this game, maybe not for everyone but definitely
  enjoyable for fans 
 of jumping around and stabbing things.
  The graphics are really good, and especially since its a giant world.
  Audio the audio is good......
 
  Gameplay is good, but harmed by a couple slightly significant flaws.
  First, gets very repetitive especially around the 7 mission, basically you do these little tasks 
 around the city your in, and then do you assassination, do that 10 times gets pretty repetitive.
 
  Value, I would not buy it especially for the full 60 bucks, since your probably going to finish 
 it, in about 7 hours, so this ones a rent. I really enjoyed the game but, only 7 hours long, and 
 gets kind of repetitive, So i give this one a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPAWNandVENOM_
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The menus are a little tricky to navigate and the map system isn't super-precise, but the game 
 nails the look and feel of the era. experienced some screen tearing. Otherwise, the game is utterly 
 gorgeous and convincingly animated. Voice-acting is mostly very solid, but we're not sold on the 
 lead. The music is almost non-existant, replaced by ambient sounds that really bring out the bustle 
 of the streets and whistle of wind. Okay, this is the tricky part. There is a clear formula to the 
 gameplay, but this is a game that makes the most of a few really great ideas. I love it, but you 
 might not. At 15 hours with most side-quests tackled, the game isn't huge. However, there are plenty 
 of vistas to explore and some tricky flags to hunt down. Do yourself a favour; play Assassin's Creed 
 for yourself and make up your own mind. Chance are, if you go in with an open mind and lowered 
 expectations, you're going to walk away very satisfied on most fronts. Regardless, it's an adventure 
 that, for all the self-important dialogue and forced morality, is unquestionably worth your time 
 - particularly for fans that can differentiate between action/platformers and stealth/RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fall_out_boy96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I think that Assassin's Creed is a really good game with an amazing story. There 
 were a few problems with some of the gameplay mechanics that drew me out of the experience a few 
 times. I think the battles are fun, but often times repetitive. I find it much more enjoyable to 
 leap atop a building and run away rather than have to fight someone again. There are also markers 
 around the cities that is prefereable for you to go to and finish. This too can get repetitive. 
 The graphics are really good but have a few minor glitches here and there. Some of the acrobatic 
 moves can be hard to pull off. It's alot like a good skate boarding game though. Once you get a 
 feel for the environment and the different surfaces you can do tricks off of it's easier to make 
 a cowardly flee look really awsome. Bottom line, It's an amazing game that's worth looking over 
 the few minor annoyances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAt0m
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the new fighting system that this game has introduced. Its rare for game designers 
 to come up with new concepts that work really well, but Assassin's Creed's designers really did 
 a great job putting this game together. During the first few hours of playing this game, I though 
 it was amazing! It had awesome visuals during fight scenes and the main character pulled off some 
 intense maneuvers. Although, I eventually started to realize that I was doing the same intense 
 maneuvers over and over. The game turned out to be incredibly repetitive, which is a shame. 
  
  The graphics were amazing. The game's setting and the fighting scenes were really beautiful. 
 The sound seemed to suit the game, but it wasn't anything outstanding. The story was entertaining 
 and original. I probably beat this game in a little over 20 hours, but it could have been completed 
 much sooner. I wanted to earn some achievements. There is really no reason to play this game after 
 completing it, unless you're the type to look for "hidden flags." I'm not.
  
  Overall, I am glad I played this game. It kept me busy for a little while and you can easily earn 
 800/1000 points. It was a nice change of pace from all of the shooters I've been playing, but the 
 game's repetitive nature really turned me off.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 8
  Value - 7
  Tilt - 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game had alot of hype before it came out and even more when it did come out. Although the 
 hype is good its not a game for everyone. The gameplay is pretty good and stealthy but the story 
 line makes no sense at all. I mean really it takes place in the presant time or the future I have 
 no idea and you wake up in this weird place with to docters the put you in this machine that makes 
 you see the past or something. See stupid storyline but the graphics and gameplay save its score. Eventhough 
 you dont know where your going most of the time and all you wanna do is fool around and kill gauards 
 all day long thats cool to, its more fun then doing the missions anyway. But what am I saying like 
 it or not more than 75% of Xbox360 and PS3 owners already have them so just get for the hype the 
 entertainment and the goofing off you can do in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixlynch777
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game but it is so repetitive and I was really hyped about it but it was a dissapointment. 
 And it is not like they say on the back where you can make the crowd help you. All the crowd does 
 is stand around gormlessly and don't do a thing. I would say the graphics are amazing but the story 
 line is a bit boring and you do not really care what happens to any of the main characters. The 
 game does shine at some moments like when you do leap of faiths and when you jump across buildings 
 but the game's main problem is the repetition. The order is get: info=kill person, get info=kill 
 person...... over and over again. I did not really like Prince of Persia and this is really like 
 a watered down version of prince of persia with less fighting and more doing nothing. I would have 
 liked it if they made one more weapon like a crossbow which have made it more interesting. By the 
 last few stages you will be quite bored and and I only finished it because I wanted to see what 
 happened but the ending did not make it worth playing.
  I was really hoping it would be good but do not get your hopes up about like I did because it makes 
 it seem a lot worse.
  
  Gameplay=5
  Graphics=9
  Story=3
  Time playing=8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyMontanaJR
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of the most hyped up games of 2007. And although it didnt win Game of the 
 Year, it did win one award in my books. The Most Over-Rated Game. Ever. Plain and simple. This game 
 is proof that a game might look pretty, but that dosent make it good. This game is fun for the first 
 3 kills, but after that you'll feel a sudden urge to kill yourself. And if you are some sort of 
 wizard who can withstand hours upon hours of boredom and finally beat the game, you won't want to 
 play your 360 (or PS3) for a week.
  
  This game can go jump in a pit of snakes for all I care.
  
  You start off in some wierd tutorial 
 mode where you run around for 15 minutes and listen to some chick who sounds like the operator.
 
  Finally you jump into the action. I was amused for about 5 minutes and then i just kept playing 
 to get the gamerscore.
  
  I rented the game, and i brought back a day later.
  Honestly, don't play this game. Ever.
  
  Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris-portela
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is Pretty Good, Looks very nice, Sounds good, Challenging. Only problem with it is that 
 its not as open as it could be. The game play, although you don't know whats happening, is like 
 a new genre. You go around and complete standard objectives that get harder and harder to complete... 
 but they are basically the same ones over and over. With different locations... thats about it.
 
  On the other hand this game boasts a great storyline. it switches between you and your assassin 
 life very nicely... and its not confusing but its not very clear either. the perfect story that 
 when you think you got it figured out... it just changes again. The visuals are amazing too, everything 
 is detailed and very nicely shaded and has great texture. everything you would expect from a great 
 looking game. not to mention the game isn't that hard... but it's not that easy either... its just 
 right... great game i recommend everyone get it... but don't expect it to be the best game of all 
 time... although it isn't that far off either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfGames4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  The game, with everything, is very good. He has a style of play free, which gives the impression 
 of size, that is, everything is exploitable.
  The game where you play, you wait, and play hard to see the end. It is addictive, but there is 
 not much. In general is a very good game, but gave the impression that something is missing an 
 more. The End of the game, it is very bad, and the gameplay is bad on several points of the game. 
 The idea of the game could also be taken advantage of in history as well. Further, with all this, 
 Assassin's Creed There still is a good, game in several, senses, as a movement, the gameplay long, 
 and the opportunity to play even more, for those not completed 100% or not made any achievements.
 
  
  The game is very different version of the DS (Logic) . The game is easy conquests in general, throughout 
 the game that you will achieve. No need of effort or anything just take all the flags, and also 
 try to explore everything to the maximum, which beng, less than you expected to appear in its conquest 
 GameScore will appear.
  Assassin's Creed is for the Playstation 3 platforms, PC, Xbox 360 and Nintendo DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Im not going to rehash the hundreds of reveiws on this game but suffice to say it is one of the 
 most beautiful and believable game worlds ive ever played in. You really do feel as though you 
 are walking through medieval cities. The climbing ability alone makes it worth a look, you move 
 with seamless ease around your environment. Combat at first is tricky and often painfull but as 
 you aquire more skills it becomes quite frankly a bit easy. Enemies stand off you and attack one 
 at a time which makes them really easy to counter. The missions are a little repetitive and the 
 yes the modern day bit is irritating (although ive heard this is there to allow them to move into 
 a modern day sequel) but the game is extremely absorbing. Due to the lack of online play Id consider 
 renting it for a weekend and playing it to death in that short period if you have the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLXD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was advertised heavily and hyped by everyone who is anyone of the gaming world. 
 With Jade Raymond constantly popping in an out for new demonstrations, new videos, and a sever 
 advertising campaign. With pressure such as this, Assassin's Creed had some big shoes to fill, 
 unfortunately it came up short. That is not to say that its not a great game in its own right, 
 but this is a little bit less than was expected. 
  
  As Altair, a 12th Century assassin, you begin at the top of your trade, but quite quickly you mess 
 up and get stripped of your ranks. After that, its up to you to Assissnate 9 individuals that are 
 interfering with the city life and somehow also with the hassassins. As you travel from city to 
 city you will uncover a Templar secret that will lead you to an even bigger discovery. All of that 
 you experience through the main character who is in current time. In the game, apparantly your 
 ancestors' memories get stored in the DNA, passing it on through generations. You are now a prisoner 
 of an organization who is trying to find out a secret that Altair knew. And so the adventure begins.
 
  
  The world that UbiSoft Montreal created is radiant, breething, living environment. The locations 
 look breathtaking. When sitting atop of a viewpoint in Jerusalem, I was lost for words. The time 
 that the crew put into the environments definitely payed off. The game emerges you into the Middle 
 Ages, many games promised environments this deep, but Assassin's Creed actually delivered. The 
 people and objects also look great, the visuals are amazing, the shadows fall realistically, and 
 everything looks like it should. 
  
  What makes all of that great is the ability to climb almost everything that you see or sticks out 
 more than 3 inches. Exploring Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus from the rooftops is a whole lot more 
 fun than from the ground. You can see everything, street talkers announcing their bussiness, guards 
 interrupting with simple peasant life. The sounds are also quite good, overall, UbiSoft created 
 an amazing world with every detail accounted for.
  
  The fighting is well choreografed, and it looks amazing. Enemies attack realistically, especially 
 for the 12th Centurly code of honor. The swordsmashinp really shows off, especially when you unlock 
 the counter ability, launching you into quick scenes when you dispatch your enemies with assassin 
 like efficiency. The hidden blade also brings an awesome aspect to the game. You can choose to 
 stick it into someone's back in the cover of the crowd, or if you choose so, run up on someone 
 and jump stick it in their neck.
  
  The Assassinations themselves take some time. When you arrive at each city, you have to gather 
 information about your viction. This comes through either pickpocketing, eavesdropping, interrogating, 
 or doing favors for fellow assassin's in exchange for information. This gets repetitive quite fast 
 though, there is very little variety and you find yourself doing same things over and over between 
 kills. You may help citizens being harassed by guards, but this is the same everytime as well. 
 When it comes to the kills, its a bit better. There is alwahys a story which comes with each killer 
 ofcourse. Also, each assassination is different because of the location or the profile level of 
 the traget. 
  
  Once that is done, its off to the races, the town is on full alert and you have to get lost. You 
 get a warning level, and get the freedom to jump from roof to roof in order to get away. The only 
 thing you're trying to do is simply break the line of sight, which is easier than it sounds as 
 the guards lurk everywhere. Once that is done, hide out in the pile of hay, a rooftop hideaway, 
 or even a bench. That is about all you're going to get out of Assassin's Creed so far.
  
  As repetitive as the gameplay is though, it is still plenty of fun. Just exploring the cities or 
 the wide countryside can be fun. The flag and templar achievements will also keep you up if that 
 is what you like to do. And even after it is all said and done, you might find yourself popping 
 in the game now and then simply to scale the buildings or even to try that thrilling assassination 
 one more time.
  
  The environments are amazing, and the level of detail that is in the game is simply breathtaking. 
 You will often stop your rooftop explorations just to check out the view, or stop to look at the 
 life below. This game is all about the details. The precision of the sword fighting moves, the 
 thought out environments, and rich Middle Ages life. Unfortunately, the game may get repetitive 
 fast, doing same things over and over between assassinations. In the end, it is what you make it, 
 and for me it was a fun game which allowed me to scale whole cities from rooftoms and have a lot 
 of fun running around the MIddle Ages. I got in fights on purpose just because of how awesome they 
 looked, and believe me, once you pull off a hidden blade counter move, you will not want to do 
 any other. This game is a great add to a collection, just dont expect it to break all of the boundaries. 
 In a way it defined freeroam for itself, but often faultered in the variety of tasks you are able 
 to do.
  
  Visually stunning, with great sound, decent gameplay, and a great story, Assassin's Creed is at 
 the very least a must try.
  
  
  
  Cheers
  
  Gamertag: Shady9XD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructabom
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Here is what i think about the game assassins creed.
  
  Assassins creed is a game that many people have been waiting for and most will probably enjoy it 
 for the first few assassinations. 
  
  The game starts off good with a ok story line it begins to make you think that it will not just 
 be assassinations all of the time. But when you get to the main part of the game it starts to get 
 a little to boring. The assassinations always are the same but just different locations. It has 
 good non main storyline parts like saving citizens and just being able to mess around on rooftops.
 
  
  The game has brilliant graphics all of the buildings are highly detailed and well placed.
  
 
  Pros:
  Good Graphics 
  good controls
  extra missions
  
  Cons:
  Repetitive game-play
  
  In all i will give this game a rating of 8 because of the repetitive 
 game-play if the gameplay was different i would have given it a 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dayanasims
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best game I have played. It has the best graphics I have seen in any game 
 I've played, very realistic. I love the story and the sound effects are very real. Game developers 
 should come out with more games like this, with a few tweaks here and there. I love this game because 
 it reminded me of "Thief" But, I found it too repetitive, and the end sucked, I was left hanging. 
 The missions are always the same, the environment and the boss are the only thing that change. 
 And the end sucked, yeah they probably left it open for a second go but it was terrible. The two 
 people that were using you walked out of that little area with the machine that 'sends' Altair 
 to the past just walk out -be right back- boom, the game is finished.\! What kind of F***9ng ending 
 is that?!?? :/ ---------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying that I went into Assassin's Creed NOT expecting much based off of a couple 
 of reviews! Boy am I Glad I decided to try it anyway!! The visuals are incredible ranking right 
 up there with BioShock And Mass Effect!! The story is Very well written and moves along smoothly!! 
 The ONE area I do have issue with is the sometimes frustrating controls, but that is really being 
 nit picky! There is PLENTY to do in A C between finding flags, rescuing citizens etc... This is 
 yet another Perfect example of an engrossing game that does NOT suffer at all by being SP only! 
 Which, I must say, is a Stark contrast to games like Shadowrun and the Club which are MP ONLY and 
 have NO story what so ever! If you enjoy beautifully rendered environments and a great story along 
 with good combat give A C a go. I think you will be pleasantly surprised! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOYB0XX
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that makes a person gitty with anticipation before launch. 
 Unfortunately this title takes a step back in innovation. Sure the player can fight multiple enemies 
 using many different methods - hidden blade for silent kills, or throwing knives and swords while 
 fighting multiple, over aggressive, guards - but it's been done before in other games like God 
 of War. Even collecting information about the next target before assassinating them gets old as 
 Altair eavesdrops, pick pockets, interrogates, and even finds view points to explore the city. 
 Tasks that get old after awhile.
  
  What saves this title from a bargain bin purchase is the alteration of religious themes that may 
 seem interesting to some but may also be a little controversial to others. But even then the story 
 driven action doesn't pick up until the game is almost over.
  
  In the early days of this titles' creation what was held proud by the developer, Ubi Soft, doesn't 
 seem like a big deal. Gently pushing innocent civilians aside to pass through a crowd without alerting 
 the guards or jumping from one rooftop to the next, isn't innovative.
  
  The controls in Assassin's Creed sometimes can get a bit frustrating when trying to escape the 
 relentless pursuits of the city guards. For example: When pressing a particular direction on the 
 left analog stick immediately while either climbing a latter or hopping onto a horse to ride off 
 to safety, the calibration of the controls become inverted for a few seconds making the lead character 
 move in the opposite direction resulting in some frustrating moments.
  
  In a game where your being continuously chased, you don't need the controls to change on you whenever 
 it feels like it.
  
  Altair as the lead character is one cool dude in terms of personal conduct of how he handles himself 
 in fights. To me personally he's up there with Solid Snake and Kratos. Even though the character 
 developement for him isn't that great, like the other protaganists, I enjoy the mystique qualities 
 about him.
  
  All in all this game is worth of at least a rental. The story is great but the action oriented 
 gameplay was too repetitious for me. But be sure to see a sequel coming in the near future as the 
 ending leaves you with questions that need to be answered. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendragonlink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a game about a person that wants to know the secret of the past, so he uses a boy that 
 his ancestor knew the secret, and he uses a machine to reveal it:
  
  Graphics: Best graphics ever seen, you can see the hair from his mustache, and shades on the clothes, 
 try to put attention and see the hair:
  2.0/2.0
  
  History: Really good story, and i love this kind of stories and all of those religions that appear 
 on the game, makes me remmember about some books in read:
  2.0/2.0
  
  Sound: I love the sound from when you stand on top of an atalaya, or when you get attacked by many 
 guards:
  1.5/2.0
  
  Gamplay: Easy to move and to run, to change weapon, to kill, to attack, to protect, its just perfect:
 
  2.0/2.0
  
  Variety: Theres many things to do, you can make the achievements when ever you want, and while 
 you do that, you can kill guards or fight with people:
  1.8/2.0
  
  Total:
  9.3/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  First, on the plus side:
  -graphics (I suppose)
  -some AI - the cities are just jammed packed with people - mostly to annoy you, attack you, or 
 trip you as you try to run.
  
  The downsides:
  -Horrible acting - especially the lead. It is obvious the actors are standing in a studio, reading 
 from a script in hand...
  -game is extended way, way passed its ability to be novel - you keep visiting the same 3+ cities 
 over and over again, where every city, every market place, looks exactly the same, do the same 
 things over, and over, and over again.
  -after playing a bit, one will discover fight sequences are - trivial, and easy, and quite boring. 
 You have a lot of combos the games holds back for a long time, but it turns out block, then counter 
 is pretty much 100% effective and unstoppable. Just hold down block until and enemy moves - and 
 they get stabbed.... unless they are coming in to grab, but you don't get hit, so it doesn't matter. 
 The others are a gamble, since an attacker may move in. So fights are easily won (save chase ones, 
 which are actually a lot of fun) with block, counter, block, counter, .... etc. 
  -This game violates every tenet of good story writing there is. Some examples include: believability 
 (the creators clearly need to attend biology 101 class to understand the difference between "memory" 
 and DNA-encoded behavior. There entire premise is flawed and sophomoric) , metaphysical banter in 
 nearly every cutscene, which is mostly flawed in logic as well and entirely unbelievable, and, 
 since it turns out everything is an illusion according to in game characters, it actually all doesn't 
 matter. I was waiting for pigs to fly. Perhaps in the sequel.
  -the game opens with a disclaimer that the game was created by multiple ethnic and religious folk. 
 No wonder, since the above metaphyical banter doesn't accomplish much except probably offend at 
 least 3 religious groups - this review does not include this as a negative of the game, but it 
 does show how pointless their premise is.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wats66
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  this is an outstanding game, with arguably the best open world environment ever invented in terms 
 of visual realism and innovative historical design. you truly feel like you are in the 12th century, 
 wandering the streets and rooftops of legendary holy land cities. i was addicted to this game for 
 a month, then noticed my interest waned quite rapidly. the reason? repetition. i found that once 
 the visual and gameplay novelties wore off, i was doing basically the same types of tasks over 
 and over again. the game's construction is linear in a way that subliminally disappoints. i realize 
 a game that offers this level of both scope and intricacy can't be perfect, but i do hope in the 
 second issue of the AC series we see greater diversity in terms of tasks and missions, and even 
 larger scale cities and environments. let me reiterate -- this is a great game, well worth the 
 investment and tons of fun to play. it just needs some tweaks to make it perfect. 
  
  one side note: why does the main character, altair, have an american voice and accent? clearly 
 he is of persian, arabic or circassian origin (he is of the hashashin sect, right?) . like his comrades 
 in the game, he should have a middle eastern accent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game sucks, it's so overrated and there are mostly cutscenes, barely gameplay, also, the storyline 
 sucks and it's one of the most wannabe pathetic stealth games I've ever experienced IN my gaming 
 experience, I can't believe this game got editor's choice and high reviews all round, what's more 
 is that the game is so easy even with pathetic controls.
  
  The only good thing is the graphics, but graphics dont make up for anything in life, it's about 
 gameplay and in some cases, the the storyline, other than the graphics being pretty cool, the environment 
 sucks and these new visions or eagle something whatever you call it.. would you have that in 1190 
 A. D? If you're playing as your ancestor they could be a little more realistic about it
  
  Everything sucks
  
  Remember kids, and those people who are graphic/next gen obsessive, that 
 graphics dont make up for it all, you'll switch to 1080p and play Assassin's Creed on your 360 
 or PS3, doesn't mean it's the best game ever.
  
  Typical.
  
  And I thought games would be getting better, later guys, I'll be playing Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious06
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed's story will grab you from the beginning, and for the most part delivers an exciting 
 and memorable experience all the way through. The ending comes together beautifully, however it 
 does kind of leave you hanging, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.
  The controls in AC are fluid and really make it easy to pull off some amazing moves. Holding the 
 right trigger makes Altair adapt to obstacles in his path as he's running. It doesn't take much 
 practice before your jumping across rooftops, running up walls, and diving through merchants stalls 
 like a pro.
  The combat also is relatively easy and exciting. Once your able to counter attacks and get the 
 timing right you'll feel almost unstoppable when facing regular soldiers, though the Templars can 
 prove a bit more difficult.
  Later on in the game staying anonymous can become quite annoying and it seems like your constantly 
 on the run trying to lose the guards in order to complete an objective. It helps if your patient 
 to not bring attention to yourself, but after awhile it can be hard due to the somewhat monotonous 
 pattern of completing objectives to unlock assassination missions.
  Overall Assassin's Creed makes up for its flaws and is groundbreaking in its cinematic and exciting 
 gameplay. Definitely a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silence5150
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic 3rd person action game. Many pioneering game elements that other games will surely 
 try to mimick. This is probably one of the best games i've ever played. well written, with good 
 voice overs. great visuals and level design. The cities look amazing, and the a. i. is almost perfect. I 
 can't think of anything wrong with this game. Some minor issues with the action button when fleeing 
 from guards, (running into a wall and unexpectedly leaping off a wall right into the guards clutches) . Also 
 some of the people are too real, by that i mean they are actually rude!!! The only thing i truely 
 didn't like was collecting flags for acheivments. but you don't need them if your not into acheivments 
 any way. This game tried many new things instead of shelling out the same old combat systems. Honestly 
 if you own a 360 i highly recomend this game. Cant wait for the sequel!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggotgwar
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a grate games with some flaws. There is always fun to be had jumping from buildings dropping 
 down and killing. It is nice getting to jump around and be an old school spider man. The horse 
 is fun to you get to run people down. Even with all the variety of things to do the game can get 
 old. There is only a handful of difrent missons you have to do over and over again. It has a compelling 
 story to it and the counter system is fun and some what easy. There are hidden locations and high 
 points you can reach for achievements but there is no real point to get them. There was no real 
 reason to run from the guards you can kill them easy enuf and send them running. The endind left 
 you some what confused with the magic and what not. Once you beat it you may play it again but 
 there is no real reson for doing so. Over all the game is fun and worth playing for people who 
 want to play a game that is fresh and not overly played out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed was one of the most anticipated games of 2007 last year and it has done very well 
 so far but does it live up to my expectations. find out in my review for Assassin's Creed!!!!
 
  
  Story
  The events of assassins creed follows the adventures of altair. a young but talented assassin from 
 the brotherhood AKA the Assassins creed. he is considered the top assassin in the whole brotherhood 
 until he breaks all 3 of the rules of the creed. but instead of killing him al mualim (leader of 
 the creed) decides that he is too good to kill and instead strips him of his rank back to a beginner 
 now altair must assassinate 9 men in order to get back to his status however each man has thier 
 own motive with a darker back story behind it. the game also contains scifi elements but i wont 
 spoil it. the story is amazing and has a huge plot twist but the ending is terrible.
  
  9/10
  
  graphics
  beautiful everything is detailed and colored perfectly sometimes all u 
 want to do is look at the beautifully detailed city and world as well as the characters.
  
  10/10
  
  sound
  great arabian music reminds me of the days of the prince. fits the game perfectly. 
 the voice acting is also very solid.
  
  10/10
  
  Gameplay
  the juicy part. the gm plays remotely similair to prince of persia with a few new awesome twists 
 (play it to find out) the combat is wicked and the platforming rocks and jumpin off high buildings 
 never gets old however im givin it .5 off cause POP did it first
  
  9.5/10
  
  value
  the story of about 8-12 hours will keep most in but the repetitive assassinations get old after 
 the first 3 its basically the same thing over and over again. (different dude same process) and 
 the ending is confusing and terrible and doesnt tie up any loose ends. well probobly have to wait 
 for the sequel to get our answers
  
  6.5/10
  
  tilt
  assassins rock so i know ull love it
  
  10/10
  
  overall assassins creed lives up to my 
 expectations as a great game for those who miss prince of persia. the story is great. the game 
 looks and sounds beautiful and it plays amazing i recommend it to anyone lookin for a new adventure 
 post prince of persia
  
  overall score: 8.8/10 (but since GS is like dat i gotta put it as an 8.5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conveant
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Altair, Arabic for 'Flying Eagle', a name has never fit so appropiatly in any game. What many now 
 refer to as free running, Altair does just to wake up in the morning. 
  As you may of now guessed, Altair is the main character of the story, a story set in the times 
 of the Third Crusade. This area of time saw King Richard the Lionheart Crusade to the Holy Lands 
 of Jeruselum, Acre and Damascus to reclaim them from the control of the Muslims and for Christianity.
 
  Altair comes into this after your first mission fails very badly, resulting in the death of an 
 innocent and a fellow assassin, with one injured badly. You are saved from the penilty of death 
 by your Assassin Order leader Al Mualim, who instead stripes you of your high rank and weapons. 
 These are only earned back after completing the set tasks. Al Mualim has given you the chance to 
 redeem yourself by completing 9 assassinations.
  These assassinations are meant for 9 kingpins on both sides of the Crusade so you can quell each 
 side of the conflict. Each figure head has their own... anti social problems you could say.. like 
 killing guests, friends and just random executions.. 
  The area's you are able to travel into are five main areas, Damascus, Acre, Jeruselum, Masaf and 
 the traveling area (inbetween the areas) The Kingdom. The graphics of the environment are something 
 of amazment, very stunning. The ability to move about in towns was also great, free running to 
 your objective made the journeys shorter and also more fun. The selection of weapons was pleasing 
 and mastering them was a task what was achievable by just normal killing. 
  The people who have already played this game will notice I have missed a HUGE part of the game 
 out, this is due to the idea people who have yet to play the game can get just an idea about the 
 game without spoliers. If you wish to know any more about anything please just ask. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLions
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed overall is one of thee best 3rd-person Historical action adventure. 
  
  Heres a break down of the story, you play as Desmon Miles who is kidnapped for some odd reason 
 by two scientist Lucey and Dr. Warren Vidic, who want information about Desmon's ancestors so they 
 hook him up to this machine and view DNA information to unlock Desmon's Memories and seek what 
 they are looking for.
  
  Basically your playing through memories of Desmon and playing his Great great great great grandfather 
 Altair who is an assassin working for his brotherhood.
  
  The Combat just feels like your in control. After finishing an enemy with a counter-Attack never 
 was so satisfying in any game.
  
  The game is great all together the action is just non stop, and the enviorments feel real. You acutally 
 feel like your in the city living as this man seeking for answers. The way the civilians move just 
 feel so real. Pushing them aside to get to your destination just feels great. 
  
  Some problems that this game had was that you'd see the same counter-attack over and over which 
 got really old. Sometimes the AI wasn't that bright, few graphical issues where characters would 
 go through walls, and a horrible ending.
  
  overall it was a great game if you like 3rd-Person action adventures i'd buy it or rent it. Great 
 game great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: getmeaname1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  assassins creed was a great game for jumping around off walls and buildings very similar to prince 
 of Persia except big differences in story line.... but anyway assassins creed is great when you 
 love games that u can do some insane kills.
  if u like to kill people silently like in Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell and have people discover the 
 body sure is great... or do a high profile murder with you blade and watch all the people run in 
 fright u might kill them too... the story line is very very good i like the imagination they put 
 into this game. the makers did a good job with the game but it could have made the text a lot bigger 
 its so hard to read even though i have a decent size. if u like bad ass characters in the game 
 this is the right game for you. the graphics were marvelous as well and tutorial was very nice 
 and simple most of the part. many people say it is boring but with a little imagination you can 
 play for long hours of the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  When this game started up in my drive and i started playing the graphics blew me away.
  Possibly one of the most visually presented games out there.
  Unfortunatley the game doesnt quite 
 live up to its looks.
  For the fist couple of missions it is a really good game but then you start to realise that you 
 are just doing the same thing over and over again.
  It seems that everything may as well be cardboard cutouts as nothing is interactive.
  If i say 
 that all you really do it pick a few pockets, counter attack holding a trigger and button, press 
 a button to stab someone, climb a building and press a button to walk slow this is all you need 
 to complete the game.
  
  Visually stunning and worth a weeks rental but maybe not worth buying.
  
  Gamespot ought to 
 maybe employ someone else to do their official reviews.
  9/10 is a lie, maybe they got a fee for the mark or maybe the reviewer only played it for 10 minutes. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed has done what no game before has ever achieved: it is one of the most refreshing 
 yet one of the most frustrating adventures of the year.
  
  No doubt, you have seen the wall climbing mechanic which sees you being able to scale huts, houses 
 and even churches and temples and run across the top of Third Crusade cities. This is an exceptional 
 achievement and it looks very smooth thanks to the excellent animations of Altair. You can clamber 
 over beautiful, vast cities and the result is an enjoyable one.
  
  As an assassin, your role is to seek out enemies within these cities. However, the main gameplay 
 and real fun is the escape; heart pounding chases across the tops of ancient cities. The enemies 
 have the ability to climb buildings themselves to try and halt your getaway. By holding A and directing 
 the Altair, he will jump and climb over anything he comes across.
  
  If you do end up meeting the guards, you'll have to take them down in true assassin style. The 
 combat isn't bad but it's nothing special either, especially with one of the worst AI systems in 
 recent memory. You can simply stand there while holding the guard button while six or seven enemies 
 will also remain planted taking an occasional swipe. The enemies are just as proficient at blocking, 
 which results in a slowing of the gameplay as you often just wait for a counter attack. However, 
 this does make the final blow extremely satisfying.
  
  You have a few interesting weapons at your disposal, such as the throwing knifes and a concealed 
 blade you have for a finger, for one reason or another. These offer a more stealthy approach to 
 your progress but it would have been nice to see a little more variety of weapons.
  
  It is often wise to use these more furtive methods, as the guards will far too often assume you 
 are an assassin simply by walking past them. This can get very frustrating. Streams of guards will 
 forever chase you, even more in the open world, as you are just attempting to wander around.
  
  Wandering around the three cities, you'll be lost for words at the beauty of them. They are 
 incredibly vast and detailed. Although they are filled with many characters, from pesky peasants 
 to affluent noblemen, they still fail to feel completely alive due to the somewhat sub-par AI.
 
  
  Investigations need to be carried out to gain vital information for one of the nine assassinations 
 within the game. However, you'll find yourself doing the same, derivative missions over and over. 
 These involve such tasks as pick pocketing, which may sound appealing in theory but certainly aren't 
 after attempting for the 20th time.
  
  The story is quite interesting and the main concept involves having flashbacks to Altair. This 
 means you are transported into the future as his great, great whatever Grandfather. While an original 
 take on the action adventure genre, it's not too much fun in practise as you'll find yourself sitting 
 through tedious, long winded cut scenes which never seem to conclude.
  
  In the end, we have a game which looks and sounds fantastic and fresh on the surface, but if we 
 dig a little, lacks any real substance. I'm a little disappointed with this, as Assassin's Creed 
 as a huge amount of potential and could have been one of those games which will always remain with 
 you. Unfortunately, it won't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre381
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is quite a masterpiece. It's fantastic in nearly every area. The visuals are the 
 first thing that draws your attention, then the sound, character and environment design are next. 
 The game is so lush and bustling with life it's sort of creepy. The in-engine cut scene dialogue 
 is so well written that there would be no excuse for less than top notch voice acting (of course, 
 its top notch) . It sometimes feels like you're watching a thumbs-up, Steven Spielberg film. Game 
 play and story are strikingly fluent, with very well paced action and stunts.
  
  Assassin's Creed's graphics are everything you hoped them to be, perfectly matching the advertisement. 
 The only game with better visuals is Call of Duty 4, and barely at that. Altiar and Desmond (main 
 characters) may have the most detail put in their body and clothing, but it's hard to tell unless 
 you're paying a game critic's attention to it. Every character seen in AC has intricate detail 
 put into their shape, clothing and face. Every little pot, heap of hay, clay building, and weathered 
 brick wall casts its own shadow at every hint of texture on it. The lighting perfectly matches 
 every substance and material it touches, be it a silk robe or an old, tattered jar upon a citizen's 
 head. 
  
  The sound is almost unreal for a video game. While you're walking you can hear every piece of equipment 
 click against, and brush one another while being perfectly represented audibly. The sound of Altiar's 
 boots match whatever surface he sets foot on. The citizen's conversations and interactions with 
 one another are still audible even though you may eavesdropping on your target (to assassinate of 
 course) . All of this to the sound of great orchestra playing music to perfectly match the scenario 
 you're in.
  
  Game play matches all the other attributes: unique and fascinating. Sword fights have a constant 
 high, third-person camera. If you can counter-attack, or complete a finishing combo, there's a 
 movie-like camera shot that really emphasises the great choreography taken when modeling the actions 
 of a sword fight with a normal sword, and a short blade. When you achieve this camera shot, it's 
 very pleasing and just adds to the action and intensity of the fight. Being able to climb any building, 
 wall, or tower you want to also enhances the experience because you can grab onto any crack, brick, 
 or protruding plank that looks tangible. This allows for jumping across the rooftops of whichever 
 huge detailed city you're in; Jerusalem, Damascus, or a few other lush, live cities. Keeping a low 
 profile is key to maintaining your cover as an anonymous citizen, although holding the right trigger 
 activates high profile mode for when you need to escape a guard that has found out your true identity, 
 or defend yourself against him/them. If you are ever exposed, there are various ways of evading 
 your pursuers. First you must break the line of sight. After doing that you can hide by jumping 
 into a heap of hay (sort of hard to find sometimes) , sitting down on a bench (there's going to be 
 a ton of people in the generally public paces) , blend in with a group of scholars as they chant, 
 or you can dive into a rooftop private garden that's shaped like a medieval parking validation 
 booth with curtains. There are many ways to assassinate your target when the time comes. Stealth 
 assassinations with Altiar's hidden blade located on his left gauntlet are my personal favorite 
 because I feel like I'm a master of execution when I pull it off. There are so many environments 
 and so many different people to assassinate, that you'll never kill him the same way twice.
  
  I won't say too much about the story because I don't want to spoil it for someone who likes 
 to find out themselves and has come this far in reading this review (thanks if you have!) . Anyway, 
 you're really a guy named Desmond Miles who's been" apprehended" by a rich company that invents 
 things using knowledge from the past. They need you (naturally,) to obtain information so they can 
 fulfill their "scientific endeavors". Desmond is a patient or subject, that uses an experimental 
 device called the Animus to access his Genetic Memory: a theory that suggests you have the memories 
 of your ancestors stored in your DNA. It just so happens that Desmond has an ancestor named Altiar, 
 that was an assassin during the crusades. The company needs these Genetic Memories to fulfill their 
 cause, whatever it may be. The last thing I'll say is that the story has a real cliffhanger ending 
 and is fairly confusing. It may give away that there is going to be a sequel. Wonder what that'll 
 be like. . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  The people that made this game should pray every night that if i cross paths with them, i decide 
 not to pull out a 45 and put a bullet through their head. This game is that frustrating to make 
 me say what i said above this line. There are two aspects of this game. Navigation and Combat. 
 The latter of the two is SEVERELY FLAWED. The combat is terrible. While fighting, the controls 
 tend to be unresponsive and slow, counter attacks actually kill an enemy about 13% of the time, 
 and blocking doesn't usually help out that much. Alot of people **** about dumb enemy ai in combat, 
 but its actually the reverse to me. Altair's ai for what kind of counter you perform is usually 
 a useless punch or **** that drags out the fight and draws multiple guards to you. I don't see 
 why the combat is so difficult. They make a simple task of killing someone seem 90 times harder 
 than it really is... All in all, winning a fight in this game usually boils down to PURE LUCK AND 
 AN ABNORMAL AMOUNT OF PATIENCE. Ubisoft Montreal really should have run a beta test on this game 
 before they threw it onto the shelves. However, the navigation part of this game is really fun 
 and is the only thing that keeps me playing this game. The cities in this game are jaw droppingly 
 beautiful. Except for Acre... its like the ugly duckling of the three cities. While Damascus and 
 Jerusalem have bright, sunny, middle-eastern themes, Acre looks like a slum in England from that 
 time period. The only downside to the cities is that there is always the same weather in every 
 city. It is always bright in Jerusalem and Damascus, but it is always dark in Acre. The ai of the 
 citizens is impressive, considering that there are at least 20,000 per city. The good kind of evens 
 out the bad in this game, so i'll give it  
 congradulations ubisoft, even though you piss me off alot, you also make me happy. Sorta love, 
 hate relationship i guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExodusV2
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Well one of the only good things about this game is that you can squeeze a lot of gamerscore out 
 of this just by finishing the story mode. The main flaw to this game is that there is not really 
 anything to do in this detailed world. You basically run around in these three gorgeous towns and 
 do the exact same things until you hit the end where you get a confusing ending opening up a sequel. 
 Another one of the downs to this is there is no multiplayer or anything, which in any game makes 
 its value go down. It just seems like the creators of this game wanted to tease you. Everything 
 is there except the gameplay. After you finish this game you will probably feel like you did the 
 exact same thing the entire game, which is very bad. 
  
  Since this game doesn't have any other aspects this is about it. Now that we got everything out 
 of the way, in no way I am saying this game is horrible. Even though it is far from perfect it 
 has many things that other RPG's don't feature, including a flawless climbing system and similar 
 human reactions plus a good story. Since you will probably finish this game in about 10-20 hours 
 its not worth the 60 dollars since its so shallow. Rent it for an amazing experience, but due to 
 its lack of replay value, this will be nothing more than a wasted masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  
  [The Good]
  
  - Presentation   Looks absolutely amazing! The 
 old cities look outstanding. Goodbye Gears and COD4, the new graphics champion is here!
  
  - Climbing/Jumping   Really well done as far as animation goes (average control scheme) , the views 
 up top are breathtaking.
  
  - Crowds   Walking through the crowd is revolutionary, has some issues with incorrect animations 
 showing up but overall it's a great achievement.
  
  - Stealth   The ability to kill enemies using stealth is really cool, I wish they used the Splinter 
 Cell engine, it would've been way better.
  
  - Animations   Be it your character, the combat moves, horse motion etc. the animation is second 
 to none, very well done!
  
  - Kills   Even though the combat controls are weak, once you get used to them the kills are very 
 satisfying and varied. However the controls are not consistent and poorly done. The key is to hit 
 the right trigger and wait for an enemy to attack then click X for a counter attach, rinse-repeat.
 
  
  
  [The Bad]
  
  - Controls   Can get really frustrating in Combat 
 situations. Not as good as expected especially the climb/combat controls, it takes a while getting 
 used to the controls and holding the right trigger all through combat is not very creative. Same 
 thing goes when going in a blend position, you have to keep your A button pressed all the time, 
 it should go prone on first click then back to normal on second click.
  
  - Story   I wish they dropped the sci-fi and stuck with history mostly, it seems every game/movie 
 wants to tie some science experiment time-travel stuff that is really not needed here. You go through 
 the pain of recreating this fantastic old world and detailed cities etc. and then you mess it all 
 up with futuristic elements, bad call!!!
  
  - AI   You can sometimes "cheat" the AI and kill enemies right in front of them and they will let 
 you go, it also lacks consistency, you might trigger alerts when there shouldn't be any.
  
  - Character motion   Feels a bit clunky in places, sometimes stops in unexpected spots but the 
 effort to break new ground is appreciated.
  
  - Repetitive   Missions are extremely repetitive but I do enjoy running over the buildings and 
 getting to the high points.
  
  - Tutorial   Insufficient, should have more detail/controls. Pick-pocketing can be a pain, again 
 weak control scheme.
  
  - Sandbox   In some spots, you think you can reach certain places but it won't allow you to.
 
  
  - Achievements   I can't stand collecting items and there's way too many of these.
  
  - Exit game   Should have a more obvious and faster quit option.
  
  - Co-op   Would've been 
 quite an interesting plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sSleepy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an adventure game set in 1191, AD. You play as an Assassin intended to stop 
 the holy land from being ripped apart. conflict. You are the main character Altair and your mission 
 is great. Now, lets get to brass tacks. This is a fun game with tons of freedom, many missions, 
 and loads of bosses that need to be assassinated. The graphics in this game are insane and the 
 visuals are pretty good. The game as length to it as well and is quite addictive at first. Assassins 
 creed does have some frustrating points to it. The game is extremely repetitive. The fights are 
 all pretty much the same except for their locations and different amounts of guards to fight. The 
 worst part about this game is it's ending which should not be even classified as an ending. Overall 
 this game is solid and I would recommend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed has a lot going for it. Well lets start with the basics. You play as an assassin 
 named Altair... and you will go through several cities to take care of certain people responsible 
 for... something. Without giving to much away the game has a wicked sci-fi twist. Dont worry this 
 is introduced in the first 5 minutes. Anyways you can interact with the incredible a. i, go exploring 
 and save citizens. You have 3 weapons, throwing knives, a short sword, and a long sword, all useful 
 and all cool. you can also use your fists but you wont do that too often. The gameplay does get 
 some getting used to. Each button is assigned to a body part, holding the a button forces you to 
 run and the trigger will make u run faster, and walking is a simple tilt of the analog stick. Combat 
 is hard at first, and what seems as simple button mashing evolves into a much complex and impressive 
 fighting scehme with some awesome cinematic counter attacks. You can even turn off all your HUD 
 if your into that to really immerse yourselves. The mission setup is for the most part unchanged 
 throughout the game. You do 3 missions to unlock your assassination and then after that you can 
 set up your assassination as awesome as you like. You can either take the straight route, or scale 
 a wall and take the stealth route. However you want, and each time is very different. The game 
 (from what ive seen) has 1 difficulty. Its not easy, but its not hard either. Thats good though. 
 The graphics are absolutely beautiful, but once in awhile you may see an angry guard slip through 
 the roof. Music is great but there isnt enough of it... it ramps up when u fight and it slips into 
 the backround when your walking. Sound design overall is top-notch, with ambient noises and talking 
 all around, and it doesnt sound random either. The voice acting is solid as well. The game is long, 
 if you take your time, and the story is one you will get into. The only bad once again is the mission 
 variety. Other parts of the game blend into the story so you should take your chance to purchase 
 it. You wont be dissapointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TangosTwisted
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is one of the most creative games i've played. The game contains the cities of 
 Jerusalem, dalmascus and Acre. Basically the story is that a man has been kidnapped by a group 
 of scientists and are testing a machine called the Animus, which allows the user to read his DNA 
 memory, the memories of his ancestors. The game is slightly confusing which is probably it's only 
 downfall.
  
  You play as the mans ancestor who is an assassin. The assassin is sent to kill 9 men who are disrupting 
 the kingdom of Richard the lionheart. All assassinations have to be investigated first and all 
 of these investigations help you to assassinate the targets. It is a free-roam game although there 
 is not much to do other than the storyline. I would say that to complete the game without free-roaming 
 unless nesessary would take around 10 hours. Thank u for your time, Tango 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davi16mcmu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Well, I just finished Assassin's Creed and I have to say that it was pretty sweet. Sure, there 
 are a lot of people out there who really knocked this game for a variety of reasons ranging from 
 the repetitive missions to the guards' bad AI. A lot of people couldn't get into the story and 
 complained of visual glitches and things like that. Basically people said that it didn't live up 
 to its potential.
  
  Well, I am not here to disagree with any of that. I do agree that the missions are repetitive and 
 that the guards' AI definitely leaves something to be desired. I wasn't really bothered by it though. 
 Personally, I can run around for hours in any one of the cities, just climbing stuff, and jumping 
 around on the rooftops and exploring the huge cities, which are full of detail. The level design 
 is really cool and you can climb on just about anything. Sure the missions can be dull, but they 
 don't take long, and I just take care of them, while I'm running around doing my own thing. As 
 far as the guard AI goes, it is pretty bad sometimes, especially the archers on the rooftops. They 
 just never seem to have a clue as to what's going on. Then there are the guards on the streets, 
 who will keep climbing the same ladder even though you are waiting for them at with a sword. Again, 
 this didn't really bother me so much, because I think the combat is really fun. It's all about 
 timing and reacting. There's not a lot of button mashing, and when you do counter right or time 
 your attack right, you get to see some sweet killing moves that never get old. Even if you do get 
 bored with the missions, you don't have to complete them all. Oh, and the main assassinations themselves 
 all prove to be quite entertaining. 
  
  Any of the graphical glitches that show up from time to time are easily forgivable for me, because 
 the world is so huge and it's beautiful to look at and explore. I think the best part of Assassin's 
 Creed is finding all the viewpoints at the tops of the highest buildings in the cities and then 
 making a flying leap to the piles of hay below. That kind of stuff just never gets old. The climbing, 
 while simple in execution, is especially fun. In particular there are several buildings that you 
 can scale, but you have to figure out where to get a foothold to start your ascent. 
  
  As far as the story goes, I do think it's a bit too talky at times, and Altair's voice is terrible, 
 but I do think it has it's interesting elements, and while the ending may be disappointing for 
 many if you explore a little after the credits you can find some interesting, mysterious stuff 
 that really sets up a great opportunity for a sequel. 
  
  Sure Assassin's Creed has it's fair share of flaws, but instead of focusing on it's "wasted potential" 
 that so many have pointed out, why not just take it for a what it is. I was never once bored, while 
 playing and I'm sure I'll come back to it in the future, to find all the flags or just to run from 
 one of Damascus to the other. I think Ubisoft just needs to all the plat-forming and combat elements 
 that worked well and tweak the AI and other things that didn't work so well for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, a highly anticipated game by Ubisoft. Is this game really worth the play? 
  Good:
  Assassin's Creed brings great visuals to the next-gen console. The graphics are certainly 
 next-gen, but a few visual glitches can be a little more than annoying. 
  The sound effects are extremely great. You don't get very repetitive sounds, but a very good original 
 soundtrack with awesome sound effects
  The gameplay is decent, but it can't go higher than decent. The fighting system is original, but 
 I felt that it there could have been more to it. The whole stealth assassin system isn't really 
 there. I don't see how seating on a bench is really a great form of hiding. A lot of the game's 
 mechanics aren't as good as people would have though. The assassinations get old very quick and 
 the repetition of the game is certainly noticeable in the first quarter of the game. The game lacked 
 a sense of originality to the rest of the game because it just seemed to be doing the same over 
 and over again.
  The story of the game... A lot of people believed the story of the game was the best part of it. 
 I believed it could have been better. They tried to stuff a whole lot of conspiracies to make the 
 game seem complex and make it feel like a good story. I didn't really fall for this... I can't really 
 review the story without giving most of the story away.
  
  Overall:
  Assassin's Creed is certainly an original idea, but the mechanics of the game didn't work as well 
 as it could have been. I recommend renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-David
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When the first trailers of Assassins Creed started to appear, I was extremely excited because the 
 game looked to be a very promising one. After all the hype and madnes had settled down, I couldn't 
 wait to get my hands on this game. I got it for christmas last year and sat for hours playing it. 
 The visuals were absoloutely stunning. Every city and town is perfectly and incredibly detailed 
 right down to the last minute detail. Once you get over the visual feast side of the game, you 
 can actually start playing it. 
  
  Gameplay is, at first, great and entertaining but soon you find yourself in a game where almost 
 every mission is the same except for visuals and targets. This is a major downside to an otherwise 
 worthy game. Don't get me wrong, I still love this game and ,hey, every game has flaws right? Lets 
 focus on the good things AC has to offer. The population is remarkable with many different kinds 
 of people; beggars, pot carriers, guards, merchants, farmers (in the small towns) and just ordinary 
 people walking down the street. Although, these people have very few faces and everyone seems to 
 be wearing the same clothes. 
  
  The reason I wanted this game so badly is because i wanted to play as the extraordinary assassin, 
 Altair. I mean, how cool does he look with his white hooded uniform, his many weapons ranging from 
 the dangerous longsword, the lightning quick shortsword, the fatally sharp throwing knives and 
 the death-dealing hidden blade, the coolest weapon of all. Put these with a skilful and talented 
 arcrobatic assasin and you've got one deadly warrior. This guy can jump from enormous heights, 
 land in a cart of hay and jump out, unscathed ready to do it all again. He can jump from building 
 to building to evade to city guards running after him with swords drawn. If he wants to get out 
 of a place quick and doesn't want to have to push his way through the crowd to get there, he can 
 jump on some crates an climp up the adjacent wall to reach the top of the building and make a speedy 
 getaway. 
  
  All in all, this is a very worthy game for gamers with a hunger for visuals and action, although 
 you should rent it out first to see if it's for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  In depth review of Assassin's Creed!
  
  This review does NOT contain any spoilers of any kind.
  
  (Nov. 23, 2007) The past three days 
 have been amazing for me. I got Assassin's Creed and I've been playing it for three days now. This 
 is in my opinion one of the best games ever created and does certainly live up to the hype! It 
 does more than just deliver in all aspects, this is a AAA top-notch game and one that will be remembererd 
 for years to come!
  
  Gameplay
  
  So we know that Ubisoft intended to revolutionize gameplay for the next generation platforms.
 
  
  They did it, I've never played anything like this. Never. Some people say it's just like Prince 
 of Persia... Well, that's the biggest load of crap I've ever heard. While the Prince of Persia 
 series are aweome, Assassin's Creed is definitely the better game here, in all aspects. The gameplay 
 is much deeper and goes way beyond than just running up walls. You can climb buildings and it is 
 done in a way that I have never seen a game do it.
  
  What we've seen in the past games is running up walls, grabbing ledges and simple things like that, 
 but the gameplay here is much deeper and way more interesting.
  
  This game does, without a doubt revolutionize gameplay.
  
  The climbing and running on the 
 rooftops is a big part of the gameplay and making it furstrating would be a bad thing. What they 
 did is that, they've made the controlls so easy and smooth, it's simply amazing. You'd think by 
 watching all the videos that the gameplay is kind of hard and you have to time your jumps and such, 
 but no, it's very simple, you just move your thumbstick in the direction you want to go and hold 
 down RT to run, if you hold down the A button at the same time, Altair will free run and when he's 
 free running he does all the jumps automatically. If you happen to jump and not make it to the 
 next roof, you can quickly press and hold down the B button, that gives Altair one last chance 
 to grab onto something, before he falls down and hurts/kills himself.
  
  The combat system is also AWESOME!
  
  This is probably the best combat system I've ever seen. 
 It' just so smooth and fun.
  
  Okay, here are the thing you can do. You have three weapons; The Sword, The Hidden Blade and The 
 Small Blade.
  
  You use each of these to kill/assassinate your enemies. What you can do is you can either just 
 take out the sword and start slashing it by pressing the X button, the enemies can block/counter 
 your moves. But you can kill them that way by just slashing your enemies with the Sword or the 
 Small Blade. The wise thing would be to lock on (LT) and block (RT) and then wait for the enemy 
 to attack and then as he's trying to hit you press the X button to counter. When you counter you 
 get awesome and burtal cinematic scenes. They're so gory and awesome!
  
  You can do these counter kills with all of the weapons, the Sword, the Small Blade and even the 
 Hidden Blade. The Sword will allow you to block, and the Small Blade will too, but you're not able 
 to block with the Hidden Blade, so if you happen to time your move incorrectly, you will get hit. 
 So if you're trying to counter with the Hidden Blade, you better do it correctly.
  
  If you wish to Assassinate your target silently, you have to be unnoticed and try not to get people's 
 attention. You'll see some guards on the rooftops and you can assassinate them too. You can either 
 lock and and throw a Throwing Knife at them or you can run up to them and assassinate them with 
 your hidden blade. The Hidden Blade assassinations are awesome.
  
  So the gameplay is well done, awesome job, Ubisoft!
  
  Story
  
  I will not spoil anything 
 out of the story, I will just say that it's awesome.
  
  The main goal is that you have to Assassinate 9 targets, so... have fun.
  
  And by the way, 
 the twist is also very interesting. I will not spoil it, but I'm pretty sure it's more than what 
 people expect it to be. It's deeper.
  
  Graphics
  
  Some of the best visuals in a game yet.
  
  Sure it's not as good looking as Crysis, but the 
 amount of detail that's been put to use in this game is simply unbelievable. Every bulding, every 
 wall is detailed and keep in mind that you can climb ANYTHING in the game. Every single building 
 in the huge 3 cities is detailed and it's free for you to climb on. So there are a lot of details 
 in this game. And the graphics look simply stunning.
  
  Value
  
  So if you're wondering if the game is worth the money, more than enough. You're basically stealing 
 it for the price it costs. It's more than enough worth your moeny.
  
  So I'd say buy it.
  
  If killing 9 targets sounds dull and boring to you (and if it sounds like a short game) , then 
 read on:
  
  The men you're supposed to kill are placed three in a city. Three in one city, three in the next 
 city and three in the last city. So you get nine targets. All the cities are broken in to three 
 parts; The Rich District, where everything is fancy and nice, The Poor District, where everything 
 is pretty nasty and sometimes broken/burnt down and The Middle District, where everything is... 
 well... in the middle of rich and poor. You cannot access all of the Districts at once from the 
 start of the game, you get to access them as the game moves on. So all of the targets are in three 
 different districts. First you have to find out some information about your targets and do some 
 investigations, you do that by first climbing a View Point which is basically a tall building, 
 when you climb it you get more objectives on your map (side missions and investigations) , saving 
 the citizens are the side missions and investigations are from pick pocketing letters to beating 
 the information out of somebody (and then killing them :D) .
  
  So there are plenty of investigations and side missions you can do. Some people say they are repetetive, 
 well, those people do not appreciate the depth in the gameplay, and even if those missions are 
 repetetive, which I disagree with, the depth in the gameplay should make up for it, because how 
 you do the different missions is up to you. You choose how to do them.
  
  Overall
  
  Overall I think this is without a doubt the game of the year and should not be missed. Everybody 
 should be buying this game, because it's **** awesome. Everything about it is great.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krow684
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one of the most entertaining and simultaneously frustrating games to come out 
 this year.
  
  First of all, the debuting mechanics are revolutionary. The wall climbing system is an awesome 
 thing to behold. Every fathomable ledge in the entire game has been mapped for interaction. This 
 makes traveling through environments an engaging, true seventh generation experience. Essentially, 
 nothing gets in the way. Altair can climb anything. Which is good, as many of the game's tasks 
 employ his mobility.
  
  Because of its necessity, however, flaws in the system shift from minor errors to full blown developmental 
 oversight. The free running system relies on the direction the player pushes the left analog stick 
 in relation to the camera. The camera, instead of sensibly being completely manual, with no automatic 
 movements that may cause problems when trying to make precise jumps, will occasionally jerk directly 
 behind Altair. This is especially frustrating on a particular mission where Altair has to navigate 
 a series of docked boats without falling into the water. If he does, he dies, because assassins 
 can't swim, right? Also, on more than one occasion, while fleeing guards or attempting to slink 
 by a patrol, Altair locked up when I was climbing a wall. For no reason at all, he will cease to 
 climb, even though the ledge is within arm's reach. What's worse is, the only way to break free 
 of the lock up is to climb down! I found that I couldn't even leap left or right. So crafty rock-hefting 
 guards are pursuing me, and suddenly I'm stuck to the side of a building as if held by a vice. 
 Awesome!
  
  So, now, Altair can't climb. He drops to the street to face his hunters. Before acquiring countermoves, 
 combat is simply functional. It isn't bad, but it isn't really great either. It doesn't improve 
 a lot after you earn more abilities, as the crux of it relies on a simple one-button system that 
 can get pretty monotonous.
  
  Especially since every guard in every city is willing to die to take Altair out. Simple rooftop 
 skirmishes can turn into massive fights spanning half a "district" if an involved party takes a 
 spill to the street. Occasionally, the action is welcomed, but most of the time it occurs when 
 the player is just traveling, and that makes it pretty frustrating. I suppose the real issue here 
 is that the guards are just too damn suspicious of Altair. It's pretty funny actually. The player 
 can pickpocket someone in the street right in front of a guard and guard will do nothing, but if 
 Altair is standing on a rooftop surveying the city, rooftop patrol is overeager to set off the 
 alarm and fire an arrow in his direction. It wouldn't be so agonizing if the guards weren't so 
 proficient at blocking the blows of a trained assassin. Even that would not be a problem if one 
 didn't find himself facing with ten guards at once in just about every battle.
  
  The cities themselves are all unique and interesting. Plus, they are absolutely huge. Once one 
 has unlocked all the districts in a particular city, the environment feels believable and alive. 
 One can run from one side of a city to another, and conveniently, as there are no load times. Each 
 city is filled guards, regular citizens, and peasants, giving the world a living breathing sensation 
 that few games have been able to capture.
  
  So there are some pretty cool tools at the developers' disposal here: an exceptional climbing system, 
 a functional combat system, and sprawling, believable cities. Instead of making a dynamic game, 
 with enough variety to keep players involved and to see the story to its end, Ubisoft made enough 
 material for one interesting mission. Then they took that mission and duplicated it nine times. 
 Essentially, one runs around the city completing "investigations" that will help him plan his assassination. 
 There are only four kinds of investigations, and each type plays out the same every time. And while 
 the information learned is related to the assassination, the player doesn't even have to pay attention, 
 as when the actual assassination takes place, each investigation's findings are worthless. Once 
 enough info has been gathered, you go to that city's bureau and get it all approved. Once Altair 
 acquires permission, he can proceed to take his target down. The assassinations are each unique, 
 so it's a shame that one might at most last a total of fifteen minutes. But, assassinations aren't 
 all you can do. You can save citizens, which one will find himself doing only because it fill out 
 his "synchronization" bar.
  
  The story is pretty fascinating, and stands as one of the games definite strong suits. The characters 
 are well animated and voice acted, making the story development engaging and interesting during 
 cut scenes. The only let down in this department is the voice talent of Altair himself. His delivery 
 is always pretty plastic, and unbelievable. It seems like an egregious error, as he could have 
 shared his voice with another character, which is essentially the same person, whose voice talent 
 was exceptional.
  
  The story is good, but it feels almost completely unrelated to the game play for the whole game 
 save for its last two hours. Things get tied together well in the end, but it means that suffering 
 through the missions is something one must motivate himself to do to get there. You can't depend 
 on the story to keep you playing, because the repetition will have you feeling it isn't worth it. 
 And after things get tied together, the story leaves you hanging, as if it all stopped in the middle 
 of a chapter. This "Halo 2" phenomenon is frustrating, especially after wasting all that time on 
 meaningless investigations.
  
  Because of the general lack of content, this feels more like a technical demonstration than a game. 
 I have said this before about other games, and it fits here pretty well too. Even if that's all 
 Assassins Creed was, it still wouldn't excel due to some of the technical issues making some mechanics 
 problematic.
  
  7.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vimmz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Visually stunning, but painfully linear and repetitive.
  
  My hopes were set high for this game, which could explain my disappointment and low score. I have 
 to admit the people who made this game did a terrific job on the visuals and sound, though for 
 me, the story was a bit too slow, the eavesdropping missions a pain in the bottom and the jumping 
 around town too "fixed". I don't get the "synchronization by sitting on top of a building and -again- 
 leap into a conveniantly put haystack below" either.
  
  It has to be said that I just stopped playing Oblivion, and that my standards for free-roaming 
 worlds are perhaps too high. Nontheless, in my opinion, this is a product that, while not a bad 
 game, has much to thank to the advertisement and hyping it got.
  
  I'd say hire it first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Never before has a game been set in the 12th century during the crusades. One game took the risk 
 of introducing something new to the public. This game is Assassins Creed.
  
  Gameplay: The game has a very simple control scheme that you can do many things with. The game 
 allows you to be in a stealth like mode, "low profile" where you blend in with the crowd and you 
 are able to assassintate people without them ever expecting it to come. Then there is "high profile" 
 mode where when you hold down the righ trigger you are able to run. jump, climb, and anything that 
 would attract your attention. The game focuses around those to modes and it works quite well. The 
 fighting is fun and entertaing, but a bit too easy due to the extremely stupid AI. The objective 
 of the game is to collect information on your assassin (eavesdrop, pickpocket, informant, interrogate, 
 and much more) Then you go to the location of where you may find your target based on your info 
 and you strike him down and try to draw as very little attention as you can.
  
  Sound: The music is amazing in this game. It uses a very epic, yet subtle arab music that definitely 
 fits. The voice acting is just as great even though there are a few cheesy bits, but it is still 
 great.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are absolutely gorgeous. Everything is detailed perfectly, and it looks 
 exactly like what the Holy Land would look like back then.
  
  Value: You probably will play this 11-14 hour game once or twice before you get bored of it. The 
 sidequests are fun and entertaining, like collecting flags, saving citizens, and climbing to reach 
 "eagle points."
  
  Story: There are two storylines in this game, one in the future and one back during the crusades. 
 I don't want to spoil much so I will just say the ending is confusing, yet satisfying. Chances 
 are there will be a sequel, but I am not sure. The ending made no sense!!! The rest of the story 
 is perfectly fine though.
  
  Achievements: The achievements are simple in this game, The story line missions, sidequests, tutorial, 
 pulling off things during combat, and watching the half an hour credits. Very simple and they are 
 worth a lot of points!!!
  
  The game was bit on the easy side yet it will keep you entertained all the way until the end!!! 
 The game does get a bit repetitive since you do the same thing every time, but you will enjoy every 
 moment of the game.
  
  I highly reccomend this game and I hope that Ubisoft makes more games like this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The story is kind of cool, if not too sci-fi matrix-like, because its basically just another story 
 about a super realistic virtual reality simulation like the matrix or total recall- only the virtual 
 reality is his ancestors lives. Kind of cool, kind of lame. 
  
  The graphics are top notch, especially considering the era of the game and how congested it is. 
 They do a great job in design to make sure you immediately have the sense of what time period it 
 is and where it is located. Lighting is great, character animation is great, it runs very smooth, 
 and the draw distances are excellent. There are a lot of gliches sometimes though, probably because 
 the jumps and climbs are s fluid, if they barely don't line up sometimes, you'll end up seeing 
 your character do something totally wierd. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty cool. You have to sneak around crowds and blend in a lot. The controls are 
 so simple, you pretty much can just hold up and your character (altair) will just run forward and 
 climb and jump over anything in his way in a very flashy yet somehow very believable fashion-except 
 for the diving in the hay part- but it looks awesome when he does it. The missions of assasinating, 
 and tracking down, and sneaking up on people, having to go and navigate through the beautiful city, 
 its can be a lot of fun. But because of the terrible AI, it gets boring, and more times than not, 
 I found myself just enjoying running around the city for fun and just collecting things and messing 
 with the AWEFUL AI civilians and gaurds.
  
  That brings me to obviousy, the AI. The Ai in this game is horrendous. Once you start the game, 
 you're probably not going to dive right into the gameplay, chances are (like most 'sandbox' type 
 open world games, such as GTA) you will just run around enjoying yourself just doing nothing but 
 exploring the world. By doing this though, you may quickly realize how incredibly stupid and systematic 
 the AI is. At first the civiliians seem to be all doing things on their own, like those priests 
 for example, but quickly you realize they just walk in circles around the map over and over so 
 everything is HIGHLY predictable. Also, the game sadly tries to get away with "good gameplay mechanics 
 mixed with reality" by letting you escape from gaurds when being chased so easily- simply sitting 
 on a bench and wham, you've vanished, or hop in a big hay stack, wham your gone, or anything else 
 as stupid. another thing is when you kill civilians, if you sneak up on them and stab them, people 
 surrounded DO NOTHING, and then once you walk away and their body hits the ground they walk over 
 and go Who DId this?!?! WOW THATS DUMB. You can even do this to gaurds, who stand IN FRONT OF EACHOTHER. 
 
  
  There are worse things too, like when gaurds will keep jumping up and missing the ledge to climb 
 on and you just stand there, and they repeat the SAME LINES OVER AND OVER like, we're catching 
 up to you, you can run but you can't hide yada yada yada. But most games do more to hide dumb aspects 
 of the AI, this game does nothing, and this really made the game feel sooo shallow to me. and i 
 couldnt fully enjoy it anymore. more times than not, i am usually okay with these things. but this 
 game is too obvious. i'd rather play san andreas ANY DAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes going into this game. It's made by Ubisoft and the made the Splinter Cell games 
 which were good fun. Unfortunately the truth quickly came to bear.
  
  First off lets start with the graphics. The game looks beautiful and the character's movements 
 seem pretty realistic. Looking at the city from atop a tower really shows all kinds of nice details 
 here and there. The sounds and music are also pretty good.
  
  The gameplay is by no means bad. The combat is fun - for awhile. The problem is every time you 
 get into combat it's the exact same moves. There are 3 or 4 moves you can use when attacking and 
 thats it. Different weapons have the same limited moves. The AI is so stupid it doesn't even make 
 it hard. You can simply stand there and wait for one to attack, counter it and then just repeat 
 until they're all dead. They just stand around looking at you while you look at them.
  
  The cities are also pretty similar. The only one that looks different is the Christian city. Even 
 within that city, it's so similar looking in the whole town. The other two cities look almost identical 
 to each other so it feels like you've already run around there before. 
  
  All this combined make the game so boring and repititious. I played only 3 or 4 missions before 
 I got tired of running down the hill from the fortress, getting on a horse, running to a city, 
 running around the same city, killing someone (Which is no challenge at all) and doing it all over 
 again. I don't know why this game get such high remarks, it's not bad but it's not special either. 
 It's just average. Very run of the mill and generic. The only thing original is the time period. 
 It doesn't feel very fun.
  
  This game at very best I would only recommend a rental. I've rented it myself and I don't even 
 feel like playing through any more of it, it's all the same. It loses the cool factor after 30 
 minutes of playing it. I cannot recommend anyone to purchase this game unless you love repitition 
 more than an MMO player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmanray
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I had no bias or expectations of this game before buying it. After a few days of playing though, 
 my opinions of it are very low. Its like a dumbed down prince of persia thats no fun. The ONLY 
 thing that they concentrated on was the graphics, and even those are glitchy. Very boring, as only 
 1 button is your attack button, with no variations of moves exept for a combo of hitting that button 
 twice in a timely manner. You walk around or ride a horse in a huge world filled with lifeless 
 characters, assassinate some of the dumbest AI there has been, and thats about it to the game. 
 Oh yes, you can climb buildings, but this adds NOTHING to the game. No skill is required for this, 
 just hold down RT and A, and thats it. If you like very repetitive, boring gameplay that includes 
 "easter egg hunts" for flags, then this is your game. Otherwise, almost ANYTHING else out there 
 would grant you more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcheese6_6
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is my favorite game of all of 2007, beating games like WoW: burning 
 crusade by far. The sheer graphical achievements made in this game make it one of the few truly 
 next generation gaming experiences. i played this game for a lot of time and i truly couldn't find 
 a single graphical glitch. the story is that you are a assassin in the 10th century middle east, 
 questing to avert the slaughter that will be the crusades. to achieve this you are set a list of 
 8 targets that must be assassinated. now this may seem like a low number but there are many side 
 missions to play along with the main quest line, giving many more hours of game play. this game 
 will adapt to suit everyones playing style. whether you want to stealth it with throwing daggers 
 and make a quick escape of feel like going in longsword swinging then the game will suit you .the 
 graphics are truly stunning with quick loading times and massive draw distances. the parkour / 
 free running style is so innovative that i cant see any games that have anything remotely like 
 it within their game play. the combat is easy to get use to and again will adapt to your fighting 
 style. you can stealth towards a slaver and quietly use your spring dagger and kill him on the 
 quiet or you can jump down from the roof tops and slam your sword through him! either way this 
 game is a must have and a true eye opener to what next gen consoles can achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bablos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Hard to really comment on the game to a sufficient level without giving too much of the storyline 
 away for those who have yet to experience the majority of the game, but I'll give it a whirl. 
 
  
  The majority of the game is set in 1191, during the third crusade in the holy land. You play the 
 character Altar, an assassin after an artifact that the Knights Templar are searching for. Your 
 initial assassination attempt goes awry, and you're sent back to your master, stripped of your 
 rank, and are tasked with a series of 10 assassinations to regain your rank, equipment and abilities 
 along the way. You start out in the small town of Masyaf, then you move out in the wilderness called 
 Kingdom, from which you eventually get access to the cities of Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem. As 
 you progress through your missions, more areas of the cities are opened up to you. 
  
  Your primary assassination missions follow the same recipe each time really - visit the assassin's 
 guild in the town you visit to start your investigation, climb some tall towers to open up more 
 of your map and see some of the tasks you need to carry out (eavesdrop, pickpocket, beat the hell 
 out of someone, and timed flag and assassination runs in later missions) , and then once you have 
 a certain number done, you can head back to the guild, tell them of your findings, and off you 
 go to carry out your assassination. Despite the game doing pretty much the same for each of the 
 different assassinations you're tasked with, the cities vary sufficiently in order for it to not 
 become a chore - only things I started to dislike were the sheer number of beggars, drunks and 
 insane people that get in your way in the latter missions. Aside from these, you can go collecting 
 flags in all areas of the game, or seeking out templar knights to kill too, but these are secondary 
 to the main story.
  
  The game's visual style is where it shines the most - the cities are simply breathtaking, and you're 
 introduced to each one with a sweeping view as you approach it. When you've unlocked the city, 
 it's amazing to think that it's a living, breathing city down there - no dodgy looking walls or 
 backdrops, what you see is a city, and you can visit anywhere in it once it's unlocked, and it's 
 all done seamlessly. It's a joy once you scale your first building and start to run, jump and climb 
 around the rooftops, and climbing each of the different lookout points in the city never get boring, 
 especially when you get to climb some of the massive buildings out there, such as the cathedral 
 in Acre. Astounding. 
  
  Without giving anything away, the ending of the game surprised me - I expected something a little 
 more... well, not final, but something that felt as if the current game had actually ended? Instead, 
 if you do a bit of digging around, there's a collection of curiosities that tells you that they 
 could go in so many directions with sequels to the game, both forwards and backwards in time. Plenty 
 of options there, so I look forward to where they take the franchise next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter_x_1976
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  The only thing that might keep a player going on and playing this game might be the storyline. 
 But I don't understand English well so usually I put the closed captioning on. This game does not 
 have it. The combat system is non-existent. It is a shame that the movie got such reviews only 
 for the graphics and a bunch of cut-scenes that fragment the fights. I give it 1, because it feels 
 like released in the middle of the development. Corporate America got the best of us ! The absence 
 of the subtitles shows how Ubisoft cut the developing funds and the implementation time. This is 
 such a shame. Also it is a shame that very few reviewers give this game a fair grade, which would 
 be something like 5 out of 10. I gave it 1 out of 10 because the developers didn't put enough effort. 
 I am sure that in the next version they will fix this, they have a history of improving their games 
 ( see the splinter cell series ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Not everything I play turns into gold. While my latest reviews were all above 8, this one just 
 doesn't catch me enough to give it a great score.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I enjoy playing Assassin's Creed, the graphics are in my opinion even better, 
 though entirely different, than those of Mass Effect, but the latter game had a great story and 
 sucked me in because of the good/ bad decisions to be made and the overall gameplay.
  In AC, you just have to hunt for some bad-ass dudes and kill them. That's the main course. Sure, 
 the same goes for Mass Effect, but that one had so many side-quests and different worlds to explore!
 
  
  Another thing that bugged me with AC was the repetitive gameplay. At some points I was just button-mashing 
 to keep the guards away. Also, wandering around the three different city's is enjoyable at first, 
 but gets boring after a while when you get used to the breathtaking enviroment. And please, explain 
 to me, when you're a master assassin, you can't even SWIM?! Come on...
  
  Maybe it's about having a different taste of games, but AC is simply not what I was hoping for.. 
 I hoped for more interaction with the enviroment, like buying stuff, helping citizens in other 
 ways, more weapons. Maybe that will be in AC2, for now, AC 1 is a good game, just not great... 
 and that is a shame.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: necomo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  assassins creed isa game about the future of gaming i mean it have everything a game needs great 
 al great sound great details of things like the buldings and people and everything i mean its the 
 game of the year Assassin's Creed is a beautiful and exciting experience that you'll remember for 
 years to come and it is one of the most unique gameworlds ever created: beautiful, memorable, and 
 alive. Every crack and crevasse is filled with gorgeous, subtle details, from astounding visual 
 flourishes to overheard cries for help. But it's more than just a world -- it's a fun and exciting 
 action game with a ton of stuff to do and places to explore, rounded out with silky-smooth controls 
 and a complex story that will slowly grab you the more you play. Make no mistake: Assassin's Creed 
 is one of the best efforts of the year and a must-own game for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owners. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I beat Assassin's Creed just now, a few days after my mother who's going for the 1000 points. 
 And I gotta say... this game is near perfect. I don't like saying things like that because I don't 
 want to feel embarrassed when I say it about another game the next week, but I mean it. I got it 
 on sale with The Orange Box and was skeptical of it from working in a Gamestop and hearing all 
 this hype about it without seeing actual gameplay. Didn't want another Bioshock-hyped game, but 
 I figured for $40, if I didn't like it, I'd sell it. Man, am I glad I got this. Didn't even open 
 up The Orange Box as I'd spent for too much time on Assassin's Creed. And when I wasn't playing 
 it, my mother would brag about getting 65 Jerusalem Crosses without a map in one day. It... gets 
 addictive.
  
  Assassin's Creed is not only stunningly beautiful and a blast to play, it's got the best story 
 I've seen in a video game since Xenogears. The very notion that this is to be a trilogy makes me 
 anxious and nervous, anticipating the next 2 in the series. It's also an honoring feeling that 
 such writing is for a game and not a sci-fi novel series or some high-budget Hollywood flicks. 
 However, as much as I can go on about the story, which would spoil lots and possibly offend some, 
 it has to be addressed when you notice the extremes in reviews for the title. And why ARE videogame 
 journalists getting as dumb as the average gamer if they already haven't gotten as ridiculously 
 vapid? "No ending?" Hell, I was so in awe by the second half of this game and its cliffhanger that 
 I wanted to punch anyone and everyone who could knock the story of this who've, you know, ever 
 read a book in their lives. I'm with the Penny Arcade guys on this one: if you don't have the 2nd 
 ending achievement, you don't know the ending (to a rumored third of one saga) . Guess it didn't 
 have enough orcs in it.
  
  "Poor control?" The animus tutorial not only explains how to do everything you'll need to do throughout 
 the game but there are also new abilities and items you obtain which also yield optional tutorials. 
 Everything felt seamless. "Repetitive gameplay?" If you can herald an FPS' gameplay innovation 
 and say this about Assassin's Creed, it's probably because you're getting ~paid~ to review games. 
 Simply put, if you don't want to reach all view points, kill all templars, find all flags and glitches, 
 save all citizens, scan everyone/thing around the animus, and/or complete all investigations, no 
 one's pulling your arm.
  
  Sure, some fights can drag on for miles and apparently assassins can climb 100 feet into the air 
 but can't swim, but there's really no reason I can pan this game. Why isn't it a perfect 10? Because 
 I want more and I believe more could've been offered. Perhaps it's because they're saving it for 
 later but then the teasing also gets me hot and bothered. If GS were still allowing the average 
 score rating system (a better system than the .5 increments, might I add) , it'd be a 9.8 without 
 a doubt. Few things are more satisfying then hurling knives at people from a rooftop, or finally 
 nailing those pesky flag race. Then again, few things are more frustrating then trying to pickpocket 
 a priest when some woman runs in front of you, begging for change. You fling her to the side and 
 she ends up busting a merchant's stand which, in turn, topples a citizen which, in turn, alerts 
 said priest. Ugh. That I could've done without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cinematic0903
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The awesomeness of Assassins Creed has spread throughout the world, granted, but it never hurts 
 to write another review.
  
  The story is bloody amazing, it intertwines future with past. It's detailed and well thought through. 
 You can investigate by reading emails of your captors, this could possibly give you a look at the 
 next game (s) in the series.
  
  Graphic wise, it's 100% a contender for game of the year, the environment comes to life on the 
 screen. So many people wandering around in the city.
  
  The animations are great. He runs like a real person would run, jumps like a real person, walks, 
 talks, looks. It's simply.. **** The fight system is great! you can either fight offensively or 
 defensively. When fighting offensively you attack a guard, and you can either do a strong attack, 
 or a light attack. If you time your attack just right, you perform a combo, which is basically 
 a sweet looking kill. The defensive stance is where you block attacks, time it right, and you perform 
 a counter, which is a cool 1 hit kill.
  
  Freerunning is amazing. You can climb up almost anything you want. Running, jumping, leaping, walking, 
 whatever you do, it will be fun!
  
  In a nutshell, i believe that Assassins Creed is for sure, one of the best games of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10below
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  GORgeous! Entertaining! The major downsides are that the gameplay is fairly repetitive, short and 
 easy. I hope they make a sequel so they can work out these kinks.
  
  The settings are spectacular. The controls are very intuitive and easy to mastermaking moving 
 through the game an entertainment to itself and turning combat into fluid, breathtaking eye-candy. 
 Unfortunately, with the right combos and counters, the enemies are way too easy to kill, even in 
 large groups, which make sneaking around (like you'd expect an Assassin to do) somewhat irrelevant. 
 Also, the enemies are not smart enough, so even when they are alerted to your presence and tell 
 you to leave, you can walk right up to their face and assassinate them. And lastly, how do the 
 guards not notice the loud thump when you drop in right behind them.
  
  The missions are very repetitive very repetitive (there I said it twice) . And although the worlds 
 are huge and the gamemakers probably thought they'd be fun to explore on their own, they just aren't. 
 There's not enough to do in them to make it worthwhile picking up the game again after the storyline 
 is finished. It seems it would have been easy to add just a little more content like the old Grand 
 Theft Auto Vice City game where you can drive around looking for ramps or stunts, or rampages, 
 or deliver pizzas/drive taxis, etc.
  
  The plot is entertaining, but I would have liked to see more tie-in between the modern-day gameplay 
 and the crusades gameplay. Instead the modern-day gameplay is more of a glorified Save Screen.
 
  
  P. S. Did anyone else notice that the assassin in the opening video has a crossbow instead of throwing 
 knives... not sure if I feel we missed out or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquillae
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Scores:
  Overall Score : 5.5 (Lower than DOA X2)
  Gameplay : 9 (For first assassination) , 2 (after that point for repetition)
  Graphics : 8
  Sound 
 : 8
  Replay Value : none
  
  The Good:
  Interesting, if convoluted and confusing story line. Graphical design of the Middle East during 
 the Crusades. (I'm really trying hard here, help me out guys) Musical score.
  
  The Bad:
  Repeat after me: Brain dead repetition! Childishly simplistic missions. Ridiculously easy combat 
 system
  
  Gameplay:
  You play as a Muslim trying to stop King Richard and the Christians in the Holy Land. But really 
 you're in the future in a machine that let's you ... it just keeps getting weirder and more convoluted 
 from there. (But the story is unique, I'll give the designers that much.)
  
  The leader of your secret guild gives you missions to assassinate powerful men, both Christian 
 and Muslim, in different cities. But before you can pull out your dagger of death and do the deed 
 you must convince the guild leader of that city that you have acquired enough knowledge to finish 
 the job. This is where the side missions come into play. This is also where the childish simplicity 
 and the brain dead repetition come in to assassinate this game.
  
  Side missions consist of  eavesdrop, pick pocket, and interrogation. To eavesdrop you only have 
 to sit on a bench near to the target men and press the 'Y' button. Mission complete. To pick pocket 
 you simply need to stand near the two target men talking, press the 'Y' button to listen to their 
 conversation, then when it's over, follow the one man who's highlighted for you and press the 'B' 
 button while he is walking to easily pick his pocket. You can only be caught if you try picking 
 his pocket while he is standing still. For interrogation, you stand near a town crier, press 'Y' 
 to listen to him, then follow him when he's done speaking, and press your 'X' button to beat him 
 up. You will auto use your fists so the guards will not intervene. Later in the game certain walkers 
 will intervene to try and make this a little more of a challenge, but focusing your attack on the 
 crier and your overwhelming strength will easily knock him down before even the extra walkers are 
 able to hurt you. Informers offer 2 other side missions for extra info. One asks you to assassinate 
 someone in a timed period without the guards noticing. (Best side mission in game) The second asks 
 you to run around colleting flags in a timed period. (Why?)
  
  Now that you've completed your investigations and the guild leader in the city has given you the 
 green light, you wet your blade thinking now you'll get down to some serious assassin stuff. (And 
 I hope you can keep that dream a lot longer than I could.)
  
  The assassinations are quick and very easy to accomplish. Unfortunately, once you kill the target 
 you are presented with a long drawn out closing speech by the dying man. (I'm all for creating 
 games with story content, but when you stop the game for long speeches that are boring and confusing 
 the first time, you're doing something wrong.)
  
  But wait! Now comes the thrilling part of the game. The part where you as a single assassin must 
 escape the horde of angry guards who are charging at you from all directions, hell bent on carving 
 you up for killing their leader. Unfortunately, the combat system in Assassin's Creed is painfully 
 simplistic. How painful you ask? One achievement is to have a fight last 10 minutes. You think 
 WOW! A super Uber boss battle that lasts that long! I reply, nope. To 'force' a battle to last 
 that long, you have to stand in defense mode for 10 minutes and not swing at the guards or the 
 bosses. Once you learn to block attacks, which happens early in the game, you become completely 
 invincible, and combat degenerates to hold in block mode until the guard starts his attack animation, 
 then hit your counter button and score a fancy animation of you carving him up. But you say 'what 
 if you're surrounded by ten guards?' Unfortunately for the game play, this is the age of chivalry. 
 Only one guard will attack at a time. And even in the unlikely event that you are hit by a lucky 
 guard, your health bar will refill so fast that you won't even realize you've taken a hit.
  
  On your later returns to the cities where you've killed the important men, you are told that 
 the guards will now be on the lookout for you and travel within the city will be harder. Yes, there 
 are now groups of 5 guards marching around the city streets. But this in no way should make you 
 fear. Unless you kill someone in front of them, or bump into the guards, they will march right 
 past you without you having to hide or try any of the game's forms of blending in to the environment. 
 And, yes, Virginia, the side missions at the end of the game are the same and just as easy to complete 
 as the ones at the beginning of the game. (And the guards are just as easy to kill, too, Toto.)
 
  
  PS. If you want to make the game ridiculously easy for you, do all your traveling on the rooftops. 
 The archers who patrol up there are so slow to challenge you and draw their bows that you typically 
 have at least 10-15 seconds before the archer fires his first arrow.
  
  Achievements List:
  Most, if not all, will be accomplished on your first play through, which 
 is a good thing because I can't really see anyone wanting to suffer through the repetitiveness/easiness 
 of the missions a second time. 
  
  Overall View:
  If you want to see what all the hype was about, rent the game. Or borrow it from your friend who 
 pre-paid $60 to have it on release date. My bet says you'll be bored with the game by the second 
 assassination mission. (If I win the bet you have to play Dead or Alive Xtreme 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say to start is UMMM GOOD. If you are into RPGs or not this game is addictive. The 
 story line is great and very intoxicating. I picked up the controller on this (while playing COD4 
 like a whore) and haven't put it down since. This game sets you in the middle east during the time 
 that King Richard was on his crusades. You are an assassin that is apart of a secret society that 
 eliminates key people to supposedly better the world from total chaos. The gameplay is very smooth 
 and relatively easy to work the controls (when you figure the button sequence) . Fighting in this 
 game is marvelous and the cut scenes are flawlessly integrated with the gameplay it is as if it 
 were apart of the game you also can still move while the cut scene is happening so you can position 
 yourself for the up coming battle or situation. This also is not a short game either, you will 
 put in a ton of hours especially if you are looking to get all the achievements for this game cause 
 my god there is a ton of flags and a ton of templars. But then again these help you maneuver that 
 will later work to your advantage from running away and hiding from perusing gangs of guards. But 
 this game has renewed my faith in companies that they can actually make a really good and game 
 along with it being a RPG, cause let me tell you the last handful of RPGs that have hit the market 
 to be honest have really sucked. So when all said and done you cant go wrong getting this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a revolutionary game. The controls are easy to get hold of, and allow you to 
 do a multitude of different stunts and tricks, while either getting to your target, or escaping 
 death from the guards. The storyline is a bit strange, but can add some fun and there are a few 
 twists that keep you playing to find out what happens. The combat can be quite dodgy at times, 
 but you can master it quite easily, and take out hordes of enemies in a few minutes if you time 
 it correctly. The methods of collecting information are a bit repetitive though, where you will 
 even be forced to do the same thing twice for the same enemy. The graphics are marvellous, when 
 you go for an eagle eye view of whichever city you're in, or the kingdom, it really is breathtaking 
 how well they have managed to capture the classic architecture and landscape. All in all, a brilliant 
 game, both pleasing to look at and pleasing to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLSWITCH
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that makes a person gitty with anticipation before launch. 
 Unfortunately this title takes a step back in innovation. Sure the player can fight multiple enemies 
 using many different methods - hidden blade for silent kills, or throwing knives and swords while 
 fighting multiple, over aggressive, guards - but it's been done before in other games like God 
 of War. Even collecting information about the next target before assassinating them gets old as 
 Altair eavesdrops, pick pockets, interrogates, and even finds view points to explore the city. 
 Tasks that get old after awhile.
  
  What saves this title from a bargain bin purchase is the alteration of religious themes that may 
 seem interesting to some but may also be a little controversial to others. But even then the story 
 driven action doesn't pick up until the game is almost over.
  
  In the early days of this titles' creation what was held proud by the developer, Ubi Soft, doesn't 
 seem like a big deal. Gently pushing innocent civilians aside to pass through a crowd without alerting 
 the guards or jumping from one rooftop to the next, isn't innovative.
  
  The controls in Assassin's Creed sometimes can get a bit frustrating when trying to escape the 
 relentless pursuits of the city guards. For example: When pressing a particular direction on the 
 left analog stick immediately while either climbing a latter or hopping onto a horse to ride off 
 to safety, the calibration of the controls become inverted for a few seconds making the lead character 
 move in the opposite direction resulting in some frustrating moments.
  
  In a game where your being continuously chased, you don't need the controls to change on you whenever 
 it feels like it.
  
  Altair as the lead character is one cool dude in terms of personal conduct of how he handles himself 
 in fights. To me personally he's up there with Solid Snake and Kratos. Even though the character 
 developement for him isn't that great, like the other protaganists, I enjoy the mystique qualities 
 about him.
  
  All in all this game is worth of at least a rental. The story is great but the action oriented 
 gameplay was too repetitious for me. But be sure to see a sequel coming in the near future as the 
 ending leaves you with questions that need to be answered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalshotput
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I was not let down when i started playing this game. I didnt play it right after it was released, 
 i heard from many of my friends that it was a good game, but it was a better game to rent than 
 to purchase. So i went to Blockbuster, 8 times, each time i went i looked but it was not there, 
 so i had to settle for other games. When i finally went to a different blockbuster and managed 
 to get my hands on it i hurried home and put it in and started to play. Instantly i was greatly 
 pleased by the story, controls, graphics, and sound. I played through the entire game in about 
 4 days (got it on a Friday, stayed home from school with the flu on monday and tuesday) . The only 
 thing that knocked my rating down from a 10 to a 9.5 was the ending. I understand that they left 
 it open so that they can bring on Assassins Creed 2 and then eventually 3, i feel that they kind 
 of looked at the clock one day and said "Oh **** we are taking too long" and they just threw together 
 and ending and that was it. The only way that i was absolutely positive that i had finished the 
 game, was when i got the achievement. Definately worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlwaysHaveHope
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Pros: Beautiful environment, sharp controls, nice moves
  
  Cons: could have used a few more counters, ending is weird, gets tedious and repetitve
  
  Along 
 with 3 huge gorgous cities, and collectable what more do you want?
  I mean, there are a couple glitches and stuff this game isn't bad. Assassinating the guards is 
 fun, pick pocketing and beating up people.
  Along with drunks, beggars, and speakers. The townspeople can judge by your actions and will either 
 help you (if guard's are after you they will hold them) or can care less (not doing a damn thing 
 or getting in your way) When fighting guards it's not very complicated. All you basically have 
 to do is counter when they are about to attack you ( by hitting one button) but the guards are 
 not equally easy in the 3 cities. Saving townspeople, jumping in to haystacks is fun. If you're 
 not very thrifty with money and wanna blow $60 then go ahead but this game is a good rental at 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of those games that before it was released it promised to revolutionize 
 the gaming industry, which was one of the many reasons that explained the hype that involved Assassin's 
 Creed.
  In the game you control Altair an assassin that has to regain his honor and the trust of the leader 
 of the assassin's order. In the game you'll visit 3 cities, Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus, in which 
 you'll have to assassinate a specific target, and to do so you'll have to study your target, this 
 can be achieved by listening to the guards, by coercing a character, or just by getting information 
 from one of the orders contacts.
  The game is divided in memory slots, which you can access to repeat a mission, this system works 
 surprisingly well and allows you to access a specific part of the game without too much trouble. 
 The story is great, though the end may seam like a cliffhanger, at first Assassins Creed may seem 
 like an historical third person action game, when in fact it's a sort of sci fi adventure, I know 
 this might sound strange, but I can't go into much detail without posting some spoilers. Though 
 great and interesting, the story is very repetitive, the game will make you repeat the same tasks 
 over and over again, just in different cities, the beggars are also very annoying and seem only 
 to be in the game to alert the guards attention to Altair, luckily you can just push them against 
 the wall. The AI isn't very good, but that won't ruin the experience, and it will still be enjoyable 
 to fight all the guards present in the city.
  Gameplay is great, and very similar to the Prince of Persia series, jumping from rooftop to rooftop 
 is fun and easy, fights are also extremely fun, and fighting a bunch of guards at the same time 
 is great, especially because of the violent counters.
  Graphically the game is almost perfect, though from time to time you'll notice some frame rate 
 issues, and graphical glitches.
  The sound is great, especially the voice work, the actors that were invited to be a part of the 
 game do a great job (especially Kirsten Bell) . The cities sound and look like they should, with 
 thousand of people moving about.
  In conclusion, Assassin's Creed is a solid adventure, with a lot to do and see, but with a little 
 repetition, however if you liked the POP franchise, you're bound to like Assassin's Creed, a great 
 game with a powerful storyline and an enormous world that is waiting to be explored.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrangeBlueZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is something that you would expect some controversy over graphic violence or something 
 like that.... Not in the least bit, it makes killing look beautiful, and you'll want to do it over 
 and over as a result. I played it over the holidays on a small screen, without High-Def or anything, 
 and it was nothing less than spectacular all the way. Grapics are gorgeous, and it's hard to believe 
 that they could cram all those textures and every protusion you could use to climb on in a single 
 game. Controls are different than what you expect, and for the better. Altair really does all the 
 work while you guide him through the whole experience. The only flaw I saw was the ending, which 
 leaves you hanging, not unlike the end of Halo 2. Sequel is to be Expected. (And eagerly anticipated...) 
 In the end, it's an experience you have to play for yourself to believe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanifysatnaf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  When Assassin's Creed opens, you play as Desmond Miles, who lives in the 21s century. As far as 
 plot goes, I won't spoil anything beyond that. Yes, you find out in the first few minutes, but 
 the game does a genuinely great job with that plot device (and all the others) . Therefore, I feel 
 the story should be told for the first time within the game, not a review. Keep in mind, however, 
 that the sci-fi element in Assassin's Creed is not a twist. It's a trick used to add depth to the 
 story, explain parts of game-play, and flawlessly setup the sequel. 
  
  Now, the first attribute that most players will notice is the graphics. They're incredible. More 
 likely than not, they're the absolute best on the Xbox 360 as of 2007. In fact, once I turned the 
 HUD off, people always exclaimed that "it looks like a movie" when they first witnessed it. It's 
 not just the realism, either. Remember Prince of Persia? Had groundbreaking animation. This game 
 beats it by a mile. 
  
  As far as sound goes, Assassin's Creed does many things right, and very few things wrong. Voice 
 acting is great, sometimes phenomenal. Except for, of course, the lead actor. It's good for Desmond, 
 but Altair's American accent doesn't quite fit in with the Third Crusade. Music isn't a significant 
 part, but it does help excite combat a little. Also, the lack of it can add a good atmosphere sometimes.
 
  
  Game-play is a double-edged sword. Where I praise it for innovation and fun factor (assisted by 
 completely badass animations) , I condemn it for slow AI and lack of any difficulty. I can deal 
 with the AI, since it's not terrible, just not very good. But the difficulty is insane. I never 
 died on my first play through, and had a friend who'd only played one or two games in his entire 
 life give it a shot. He kicked ass in later parts of the game. Luckily, revolutionary platforming 
 makes up for a sometimes sub-par combat. After playing through twice, I can safely say that merely 
 navigating your way through cities is worth the required $60. Yeah, it's that fun, and that amazing 
 to watch.
  
  Before I stray too far off, lets talk some more about combat. Often, when a counter is performed 
 (which you will probably use a lot) , the camera gets stuck behind objects. This doesn't affect 
 game-play, since this happens during animation, but it detracts a little from the cinematic flair. 
 As a counterbalance, I'd like to mention that the assassination tool is one of the most badass 
 weapons in any game, ever. The ways both the aggressive and stealth kills look are really cool. 
 Never gets old.
  
  Side-missions aren't numerous or diverse, but most are fun. After one play through, though, I can 
 guarantee that they won't be very appealing. Luckily, you can skip the ones you don't like. On 
 the other hand, this shortens an already short game. Hell, I completed every side-mission (except 
 flag-collecting and templar-killing) in like 10 hours. Depending on how you played, there is some 
 small amount of replay value, but only after waiting a while. That's how it was for me.
  
  In conclusion, Assassin's Creed is practically a masterpiece. Numerous problems block it from that 
 title, but the groundwork this product laid for future games surpasses the game itself. AC is doing 
 the same work for its genre that Goldeneye 007 did for First-Person Shooters; making them a whole 
 lot better. Ubisoft Montreal's effort represents perfection of many things, and to ignore this 
 would be a great mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcruz25
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed from first look seems extremely exhilarating to play. Just look at all the graphics 
 from the trailers and demo. It just seems perfect. I started playing the game a month ago and some 
 change ago. There are 7 Memory blocks that you have to complete. Each block has a mission and several 
 other investigations you can completes along with saving the citizens which I must recommend you 
 save all of the citizens as they help you throughout the game later. Memory block 1 is your basic 
 tutorial; unfortunately you can't skip the tutorial part. This block also introduces you to the 
 story line of the game and being the impatient person I am, I just wanted to press a button and 
 move on with it, but sadly, it wouldn't let me. Memory block 2 started you off with practically 
 nothing. You pretty much have to start from scratch, which to me made the game boring as I couldn't 
 do much other than hit and kill. As you move on through the game, you learn more moves, skills 
 and gain new weapons. Learning to play the game is difficult at first but once you get the hang 
 of things, everything seems much easier and fun. I ended up not playing for a good two weeks since 
 I thought the game was just too hard with all the sneaking around you had to do, which you don't 
 really have to sneak around if you're willing to fight guards left and right. I suggest fighting 
 off certain amount of guards as it will make the gaming experience much more enjoyable. The game 
 also lets you throw your victims off rooftops, something fun to watch. There are several guides 
 online that you can check and verify to see if you're on the right path, frankly you can't really 
 get lost in the game as it pretty much follows a story line pattern. This game overall is extremely 
 fun and although it takes time, with all the intermissions and cut scenes, is still worth purchasing 
 and playing.
  
  Cons:
  - During the game, I did find several glitches, not the glitches that the player is suppose to 
 see but actual game glitches. The guards sometimes go into seizures after killing them on the edge 
 of a building or rooftop. Not necessarily a bad thing to watch as it is pretty funny, but non-the-less 
 it is a glitch.
  - If you happen to be an impatient person, having to go through all the cut scenes and tutorials 
 would probably be very inconvenient. 
  - Lack of combo moves and killing abilities, which technically there really isn't a lack of killing 
 styles, but I suppose more combo style moves would be great.
  - Having to travel back and forth between cities and into the kingdom takes too much time.
  - 
 Assassinating the nine main Templars in different cities and different memory blocks within the 
 game can seem repetitive.
  
  Pros:
  - Graphics are amazing on the 360 along with the cut scenes and intermissions. 
  - Storyline 
 will keep you to the edge of your seat wanting to know what happens next.
  - It's actually quite easy to beat the game once you get the hang of things.
  - Scaling walls 
 and climbing towers, not to mention doing the eagle's dive is very exhilarating and fun to watch.
 
  - As an assassin, you have the ability to assassinate a person without the guards alerted. It's 
 so sneaky, it's so entertaining.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to anyone! I enjoyed it so much that I had to purchase the 
 continuance version in the Nintendo DS console.
  
  Key note: Leave the flags you find untouched and save a specific time to go after all of them at 
 once. It will make things a lot easier for you in the end if you are trying to get that achievement 
 unlocked. Also, leave the Templars alone until your ready to get them all out of the way in one 
 go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgarden22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  From what i can tell from the various sites, and gamers out there, it seems to be some controversy 
 about the depth of quality and substance surrounding this game. And i personally agree with both 
 sides, but what i would like to do, is address the apparent dichotomy which plagues this game.
 
  
  At first glance, this seems to be the most awesome game ever made. Pure visually, its contenders 
 must stand in awe, of its beautiful and artistic appearance, coolness and awesomeness. You mostly 
 control the games main protagonist, Altair who is of course an assassin, but he is also a member 
 of the assassin brotherhood, who has a violent feud with the knights templar. At the beginning 
 at the game, the controls will be perhaps be a little much, especially if you are not a controller 
 savant, hehe. Albeit, the game will give you proper instructions about the controlling, and then 
 you will see, it`s very good.
  Well, being an assassin, you kill people. The elusive "creed" is a code which has it`s purpose 
 in you not recklessly doing so indiscriminately. So, anyways you will receive targets from your 
 brotherhood master to liquidate, and you must therefore travel to through a vast and beautifully 
 designed land to reach different cities. Once there you must gather the available scoop about your 
 target, before you can strike. Also, it will be helpful to gain the help of local priests and vigilantes, 
 who will help you where they can.
  As i have said before, the cities are amazing. They are all thriving will all kinds of people, 
 the architecture is stunning, and it`s a real pleasure exploring them. Well to keep it short, once 
 you have hopefully assassinated your first target, you must return to your master for the next 
 target.
  
  This is perhaps a fitting place to start dishing out the bad sides of the game. Because, now the 
 game, dare is say, mostly is just a repeat of the first mission. In fact, and this is mostly what 
 i mean with the plaguing dichotomy. Because, you can not just say that this game is pure good or 
 bad, for any of the good or bad aspects. They do not melt with each other. Because the game is 
 totally awesome, the reasons for this can not be the same as it being bad, but all you do will 
 just be woefully repetitive. So the game does not suck, the repetition sucks.
  
  In addition, i would like to point out some other noteworthy stuff.
  As i will noe say for the 
 third time, the towns are astonishing. You would normally expect them to be full of stuff to do... right? 
 The towns are, well crowded, but you can`t speak to any of them, if it is not mission related. 
 You can`t stop and check out any stores, play card games, go to a bar and relax... you get the idea. 
 Not that this has anything to do with assassinating people, it`s just a shame that the town are 
 so "empty". The size of them, as I experienced them, will in fact be frustrating, and you will 
 just rush recklessly onward.
  The second, is probably something i just found to be a little personally unappealing about the 
 game. The game displays one of the most disregardful manners towards human life ever. Kill whom 
 ever you please, how many you please, who ever is an your way for any reason, just kill kill kill. 
 If a guard is doing his job, and tells you to act with accordance with the law, kill him and twenty 
 of his buddys, no matter. And yeah the swords fights are cool, enough said....
  To end the criticism, i can shortly add this:
  Stupid unrewarding cliffhanger ending, but if 
 you want to continue playing, you can, but the rest of the game is searching your ass off and collecting 
 FLAGS!!! Its not cool or funny
  
  To conclude. 
  As i said in the beginning, the game is totally sweet on the surface, and is substantially sweet 
 as wel, but also intermingled with the sweetness of the game are some pretty unappealing stuff 
 and aspects. But because the goodness of the good is so good, it is worth a (weak) 8,5 in my opinion 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak9007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  i knew the ending by the middle of the game how it was goin to end and it ruined but other than 
 that and the acctual ending its was amzing i mean the way was designed, it's genius when it comes 
 to graphics i think that's as close we are to get to seeing 12th century persia.
  
  one last thing it was to easy and short but u could spend a while fooling around but if u do EXACTLY 
 wut is needed then it's quick and easy.
  
  sorry i have to repeat this dont have enough words
  
  i knew the ending by the middle of the 
 game how it was goin to end and it ruined but other than that and the acctual ending its was amzing 
 i mean the way was designed, it's genius when it comes to graphics i think that's as close we are 
 to get to seeing 12th century persia.
  
  one last thing it was to easy and short but u could spend a while fooling around but if u do EXACTLY 
 wut is needed then it's quick and easy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  This is a review on Game Play and Quality only. There are no Story Spoilers.
  
  Controls
  The Controls are among the best I have played in a long time. Doing simple things like running 
 were smooth, fluid, and lots of fun. Jumping up walls, running along beams, and leaping from rooftops 
 was amazing. (The Tomb Raider team should be taking notes) . There was some challenge in learning 
 the controls, especially combat. Novice players will have difficulties with the controls in the 
 beginning, but it's such a fun game to control that it should not dissuade them from giving it 
 a try.
  
  Controlling the horse was a little cumbersome, but it was still fun as long as you didn't get into 
 a small or narrow area. Also the horse combat seemed clunky, difficult to hit enemies from horseback 
 and in the end pointless since you can just out run enemies that are on foot.
  
  Graphics
  The Graphics are very good, great camera work and wonderful art direction, and absolutely 
 amazing animations. My only negative is that is the lacking in the color department. the world 
 is mad up of mostly shaded of grey and brown, particularly the cities
  
  Game Play
  The basic game play is a series of moving through an environment, mostly city environments, but 
 some wilderness areas as well. Running, jumping, climbing and moving slowly to blend into the crowds 
 are all big parts of the minute to minute game play. Trying not to attract attention to yourself, 
 or draw the attention of the guards is a common practice.
  
  Combat is fantastic, creating a wonder feeling as you duel with 3-6 guards all at the same time 
 is incredibly difficult and they did a great job making you feel like a deadly swordsman. Normally 
 you don't want to do this, especially in the beginning of the game when you are weak and don't 
 have a good grasp of the controls. 
  
  The other environment is the overland world, where you can grab a horse and rip across the land. 
 They have some controls that let you swing your sword, but I never felt a reason to fight a group 
 of people you could more than easily outrun.
  
  Stealth kills are preferable since attention normally means that 2-6 guards could show up at any 
 moment and help their fellow guardsman out. Plus it is so much fun to sneak up on enemies and use 
 your nasty stealth blade, a spring loaded blade that pops out just as you strike. One of the most 
 satisfying kills to perform is run at a target and stealth kill him by leaping into the air and 
 stabbing him in the neck as you slam his face into the ground.
  
  City activities were interesting, but ultimately to few to prevent tedious repetition. Climb Tower, 
 Pick Pockets, Ease Dropping, Interrogation, and Save Citizen are the only things you can do in 
 a city other then the assigned mission. There are three sections to every city, and each section 
 has 3 or 4 of each of these, except Climb Tower witch was more like 9, so the repetition gets obvious 
 and boring about half way thought the game.
  
  Story
  First I have to say that I don't play games to get a story, its nice, but its an afterthought for 
 me, if I want story, Ill read a book or watch a movieso spare me your "Cinematic Experience", 
 thanks. With that said:
  
  The story was interesting, and it has moments that surprised me. I admit that I was curious, even 
 anxious to see what was going to happen next. But I can't say the characters were believable, or 
 moved me emotionally, or did any of the things a really good story is supposed to do.
  
  Sound
  The sound was great. People yelling and the sounds of them chasing you were very cool. 
 All the random chatter of the people in the city was fantastic. I will say they could have used 
 more, it got obvious when I started hearing the exact same dialog over and over every time I performed 
 specific and frequently repeated tasks.
  
  Music
  The music was minimal, and by that I mean it was not intrusive and provided just the right amount 
 of background atmosphere. I will also say that it also did not leave me with a strong memory ether. 
 
  
  The Fatal Flaw
  Near the end of the game I encountered a fatal flaw that corrupted my save game making it impossible 
 to complete. The character would fall through sections of the world and die. Also, there would 
 be duplicate Altairs that I could control both at the same time. Both would move and fight, even 
 targeting and attacking each other, eventually leading to Altair's death.
  
  Final Score
  Assassins Creed is a great game, but the flaws made it tiresome to continue playing, and a rare 
 but fatal bug made it impossible for me to finish.
  
  Some day I may go back and play it again just so I can finish the game, but this is my score and 
 it will stay this way forever as my first experience.
  
  Final Score = 8.0
  
  So there you have it! Good luck and happy hunting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I Rented this game not bought it. the reason for this was i beat mass effect in 2 days, so i fuiguered 
 i could beat this aswell. onto the review. the gameplay is great, its Very fun climbing up walls 
 and doing crazy stunts. the graphics look amazing on my 37 inch vizio. the only problem i really 
 had with the game where that its very confusing, and also that the camera can get a little annoying. 
 but besides that the game is fantastic. proby the most nnovative and creative game ive ever played 
 in my life. now i have only played for a ittle bit, so im hoping that the story will become more 
 clear, but its very good. so far ive noticed that the people react realisticly to how you act. 
 this game is extremely realistic, and i love that about it. the game scaling is huge, theres like 
 100 people on the screen at a time. i love it and imma go play it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of the best games I have played in a while. Pretty much everything about this 
 game is done well. Graphics are beautiful, game play is smooth although sometimes you may run up 
 a wall or two that you didn't want to. You might get kinda tired of doing missions towards the 
 end but it's worth it. This game has a unique style of controlling your character it's more than 
 I had ever expected and it works very well. There are a good bit of places you can explore. The 
 game is free for all so you can choose when you want to go to your next mission or you can just 
 explore around and look for secret things you can collect or just kick back and enjoy the beautiful 
 scenery. You need to play this game. * random sentence to take up more space to post this review 
 cause i pretty much said everything i wanted to already* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahughs007
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Well, I was on the fence about Assassins Creed, and I almost didn't buy it. 
  
  Highlights: Scaling building and running through cities is easier than Prince of Persia and alot 
 of fun. Attacking \ Counter Attacking enemies is delightfully assorted (there are many different 
 ways you can kill an enemy, many times directly relational to where they are standing in proportion 
 to you or which weapon you are holding) 
  
  Some of the kills are rewardingly gruesome. The plot is interesting and I definately hope part 
 two takes place in the future with the same \ similar controls. 
  
  The Bad: The people you save in the cities are mindly morons that somehow all say the exact same 
 \ boring things. Once you figure out the pattern to the game, some people may want to stop playing 
 as they feel they have seen it all. (Luckily the plot is interesting enough to save many people 
 from stopping, as they want to know how it all ends) 
  
  I would recommend the game, as I don't regret purchasing it. At first I had buyers remorse, but 
 then played through a few more assassinations and began to really get a feel for the game and thoroughly 
 enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidetched
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Why, you might ask? I'm somewhat of a history buff, but not ALL history, I'm particularly enthusiastic 
 about the Crusades and all things within that era of time. I've played a number of hack & slash 
 games before because I love swords and swordplay (being a novice practitioner myself) - the whole 
 medieval aspect just resonates with me. So, when I first read that Ubisoft was making a game set 
 in the Crusades, you could imagine how I must've felt- I've been waiting a long time for a game 
 like this to come. I loved the LOTR games, don't get me wrong, but when it's all said and done, 
 it is fiction, it is fantasy and as such, not to be taken too seriously. THIS game, however, takes 
 historical fact and weaves an intricate storyline incorporating certain key figures from that time- 
 all people who died mysteriously or otherwise by the Year of Our Lord 1191 Anno Domini. I've studied 
 texts on the Crusades, descriptions of battle formations, the political climate of the era (funny, 
 its not so much different now, even 1000 years later- Vidic has a point you know) , the different 
 cultures, styles of dress, architecture, you name it, I've read up on it. If you've ever seen the 
 movie Kingdom of Heaven you will recognize the locales you visit in-game; the devs at Ubi state 
 that the game is historically accurate with regard to the locations- I wouldn't bet against them. 
 From the stunning vistas, engaging and at times, exciting, story, excellent voicework (although 
 I could've voiced Altair better than Mr. Shabhaz) , probably the most natural control schema I've 
 encountered since RE4 and the fact that it is set during the Crusades- this game was tailor-made 
 for me and those like me. And of course, if the historical aspect doesn't grab you, the visceral 
 fighting that occurs definitely will. At the very least, I hope it makes some of you out there 
 more curious about the Crusades and may spark enough of an interest in you to read up on it. It 
 was a time where life could not be taken for granted because you never knew when your time was 
 up; danger was an everyday issue that all people of all classes had to deal with whenever they 
 set foot out-of-doors. It was this very danger that led to the Orders of the Hospital and the Temple 
 to being formed in the first place (at least, that was their charter, the protection of pilgrims 
 to and from the Holy Land) . I love this game.
  
  So yes, I gave this game a 10, because it was perfect to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  From the makers of the Prince of Persia trilogy comes Assassin's Creed. A gamed based loosely off 
 some historical figures and regions taking place during the year of 1191 A. D. during the Holy Crusades. 
 Releasing onto shelves and into the hands of gamers on November 13th of 2007, right in time for 
 the holidays, Assassin's Creed hopes to give gamers an action game along the lines of the award 
 winning Prince of Persia series in the way of combat, action, and overall fun. Will Ubisoft make 
 another winning franchise like they have so many times or will the fact that they're constantly 
 pushing titles out the door lower their overall quality? 
  
  As most of you have already heard, there is a sci-fi element in the game that I won't get into 
 too much detail about. Basically, you're a character named Desmond who is the ancestor of Altair 
 who happens to be an extremely important person during the Holy Crusades. Using a machine called 
 an Animus, researchers are able to pull memories from Desmond's mind, memories of Altair that are 
 stored in Desmond's genetic code. Although the idea may seem far-fetched, it flows well from begging 
 to end and you're never really put off by the sci-fi elements that persist throughout the game's 
 storyline. Over the course of a few days, you'll be viewing memories of the year 1191 A. D. in Altair's 
 mind as he assassinates nine different people who are all linked together by a common want, one 
 which you'll discover as you progress through the game. Sometimes, because of how the story is 
 presented to you, through the eyes of Desmond or Altair, you'll be confused by what's actually 
 taking place in the background, but by the end of the game, you'll come to have an understanding 
 of the whole concept that the developers wanted to portray to their fans and you'll be happy in 
 knowing that the game leaves itself open for a sequel, but Ubisoft has already announced that the 
 game is part of a trilogy.
  
  The interesting part about the game is that half of it is historically accurate. Ubisoft certainly 
 did their research when developing Assassin's Creed because each individual that you assassinate 
 throughout the game actually died in the year 1191 A. D. Now, I am not and Ubisoft is certainly 
 not stating that this is how they died, by assassination, but the fact that each of them passed 
 away during that year makes the storyline that much more interesting. Also, when creating the different 
 cities in the game, Ubisoft took great care in recreating the actual cities to scale from old and 
 ancient maps and layouts of each of each of the ancient stories. Also, about the Assassin's Guild 
 that you're apart of, when you become an assassin, they cut off your ring finger on your left hand 
 as a final culmination to the initiation into the guild and Altair is missing his ring finger. 
 This finger cutting actually took place during the guilds life during the Crusades and it just 
 adds that little extra touch to a game that aready has a lot of depth.
  
  From the beginning of the game, your skills and weapons are taken away because of a mishap that 
 took place because of your ego, but as you progress through the game, you're given back some of 
 your weapons and skills such as counterattack which makes the combat system more fun and interactive 
 overall. With your new skills and abilities, you'll become the master assassin that you once were, 
 but that doesn't mean that the beginning of the game is boring in the least. One of the most fun 
 and creative experiences you'll have in this game is presented to your from the beginning and that's 
 the ability to climb buildings and objects as high as they go. And while that may not seem like 
 much, accompanied by the beautiful visuals in the game it's one of the best experiences you'll 
 have in gaming. The draw distance is almost unlimited and seamless and you'll find yourself taking 
 a route of rooftops when going to any objective in the game and there are quiet a few objectives 
 in the game, although there are some drawbacks to these side quests.
  
  When you are given the task of assassinating an individual, you're to travel to the particular 
 city that they're located in consisting of Acre, Damascus, or Jerusalem. When first traveling to 
 the different locales, you'll have to travel across what is known as the Kingdom. It is giant piece 
 of land that connects all of the ancient cities and within the Kingdom are different objectives 
 that you can complete and hundreds of guards to take out while you're roaming from town to town, 
 but after you've been to each town, you're then able to fast travel between areas if you'd like. 
 Once there, you're to travel to the Assassin's Bureau, and then from there, collect information 
 throughout the streets about your target so that you may better learn your prey before you take 
 them out. These tasks consist of eavesdropping, interrogating, pickpocketing and optional informers 
 scattered through the city. And all of these tasks are pretty much the same throughout each section 
 of each city and from one city to another. Other than these tasks, you'll have other optional side 
 quests such as saving different citizens around the city who are being hassled by local guards 
 and also the high viewpoints around town that you climb up and receive the ability to see more 
 objectives throughout the city you're in. Besides these side quests, other objectives to complete 
 throughout the game including collecting flags from the different cities and the kingdom that resides 
 in between them and also killing sixty templars that are scattered throughout the entire map including 
 cities and the kingdom. While all of the side missions may be the same, you're presented with the 
 option on how you want to complete each one. You have the freedom of choice and this is what makes 
 this game shine. 
  
  One thing should be noted about the combat in the game. As you progress through the different assassinations, 
 you relearn your skills that were taken from you and once some of the more important skills and 
 abilities are learned, like counterattack, the combat becomes fairly simple. Part of this is due 
 to the counterattack skill being so powerful, but also because while you're usually surrounded 
 by a group of enemies, only one will attack you at one time. While some might come out and that 
 it's unrealistic, you have to take a second and think, if you were surrounded by a group of guys, 
 would all of them attack you at the same time? No, of course not, but obviously more than one would 
 attack you and you'll find combat within the game to just take up time sometimes instead of being 
 challenging. But with the different ways that you can take out your opponents whether you're throwing 
 them off a building, throwing them into a collapsible log stand, or just run through the different 
 death animations that show when you complete a perfect counterattack. 
  
  Speaking of shining, this game looks absolutely beautiful. It's incredible how great this game 
 looks and how well Ubisoft did with creating an amazing atmosphere to house their storyline. While 
 scaling the many buildings and there are hundreds, all of Altair's movements look solid and fluid 
 and all of the ledges and notches that he grabs onto never look out of place or as if they put 
 them there for him to grab onto. Every detail and design of the city seems like it jus fits into 
 the whole when roaming the landscape. When atop the many viewpoints across the different cities, 
 you'll be able to view in every direction of hundreds of yards across the giant ancient metropolises. 
 Character designs are solid and animations flow as you make your way throughout the many city streets. 
 Different characters and NPCs interact with each other and on their own going about their own business 
 as you go about yours and everything looks superb. It truly shows the power of the Xbox 360 as 
 you see hundreds of NPCs on screen at one time as you're being chased by a handful of guards. This 
 has to be one of the best looking Xbox 360 games out on the market.
  
  The different ways that you're able to take out your enemies are fun and engaging whether you're 
 simply attacking them relentlessly or using your counterattack ability to do an instant kills. 
 When you complete a maneuver perfectly, the camera kind of gives you a cinematic view of your one 
 hit kill, and it fits seamlessly into the whole combat system. There are stealth kills that can 
 be preformed that look stunning when done correctly whether you're taking out an guard who is unaware 
 of your presence or templars who are awaiting your challenge throughout the vast lands of the ancient 
 world. When these stealth kills are executed correctly, you're justly rewarded with one of these 
 cinematic camera angles that make the kill that much more engaging and gratifying when you pull 
 them off, especially on one of the nine targets if you're able to find the perfect timing needed 
 between all of the crowds and guards all over.
  
  Upon first picking up and playing the game, the controls may seem awkward, but after only a half 
 hour or so, you'll find that the control scheme fits both the controller and game perfectly with 
 the different moves and combinations of attacks you're able to pull off. These controls make the 
 climbing stream perfectly and all the jumps that Altair performs throughout the different cities 
 look seamless and fluid from one rooftop to the next. If you're put off by the controls when you 
 first play the game, don't be dismayed because the control scheme grows on you and you'll begin 
 to appreciate the time that went into designing it perfectly.
  
  Sound in the game brings a lot of atmosphere to the game in the way o not only the musical score, 
 but the great voice acting you'll come across from not only wandering NPCs, but also the informers 
 who will be giving your information about your next target. Sound effects of swords clashing against 
 each other, random shouts from the crowds, and just the sound of the breeze whistling around you 
 as you're crouching atop a tower viewpoint make this game standout. After each assassination, you'll 
 have a conversation with your victim about their purpose and the voice acting is spot on, which 
 you'll constantly be impressed with throughout the game. 
  
  The gameplay is stable in the fact that you won't be expecting any lockups, hitches, or drop in 
 framerate as you're roaming the different cities and this is something to marvel about because 
 of the amount of people on the screen at one time. Although the visuals are seemingly solid, you 
 will notice some screen tearing every once in a while, but it's rare and you'll barely notice it 
 because it's so rare. Although the game presents the same tasks each time you play through the 
 game, you're always given the choice of how to complete those tasks, so if you're a person who 
 can replay a game like Grand Theft Auto or Saint's Row, then replaying through Assassin's Creed 
 would be along the game lines. Although it doesn't offer the same amount of side quests available 
 from these two titles, the seamless environment and detailed locales you're presented with are 
 more than enough to complete a second run through. The different components that some will find 
 wrong with the game, others will revel in what makes this game beautiful. 
  
  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 10
  Sound 9
  Story/Plot 9
  Replay Value 8
  Stability 9
  Overall 8.99
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Kinda_Mad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect in everyway. From gameplay to story, this game just nails it. I'll 
 start by talking about the gameplay. When I had first picked this up, I was a little worried that 
 the new gameplay would be confusing and hard to learn, but it's everything but. I quickly and easily 
 learned the controls and had a blast. Never before have I had so much fun jumping buliding to buliding.
 
  
  
  Now lets talk about the story. The Story does have a large Sci-Fi element to it, but I won't get 
 into that (I don't want to ruin the game for you :D) , but basicly you take the role of an assassin 
 named Altar, who has to redeem himself by assassinating nine men who are benefiting off the war 
 and most be stopped. The story has many twists and turns through out and will have you had the 
 edge of your seat til the very end. But if you are religiously sensitive beware, this game has 
 many anti religious themes but still, don't let that keep you way from such a great game.
  
  Now lets talk about the bad, the game gets very repetitive very fast. I never had an issue 
 with it myself, but I know that this has ruined the game for alot of people. Other than that, the 
 game is great.
  The replay vaule is good (collecting flags and all) , but the thrills won't last forever.
  
 
  Anyway, this is a must have game and experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_specialist4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game actually blew my mind the first time i played it. The tutorial sucked but once i got 
 passed that i was amazed by the cityscapes with everything looking so realistic. The combat is 
 one of my personal favourites because counter moves rock, they can get u outta tough fight situations 
 alive or they can be used when fighting one guy just for some fun and amazing visuals. Even normal 
 combat looks great and although some things do happen pretty automatically its still nice to look 
 at and doesnt require too much thinking. If you practice stealth and good combat skills before 
 the missions/quests you should really have no problems. The main quests in the game are actually 
 fun, because you actually have to do some investigating to find out where the target is located 
 and what he will be doing. The side quests on the other hand are very tedious and repetitive. That 
 is one of the two things that confused me the other was the ending.... i saw the ending i was hoping 
 for something sweet to happen but it really didnt it just sorta left me hanging there. That ending 
 confused me more than my retarded half cousin Billy eating ribs.. although Assassins Creed never 
 got BBQ sauce on the walls. Thats all i gotta say about the ending but all in all Assassins Creed 
 kicked ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ionizer23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, made by the guys who brought you Prince of Persia is an amazing game. It has 
 many new features not seen by the average gamer. The coolest thing would be 'freedom'. Unlike other 
 games where you only have a certain set of moves, Assassin's Creed's freedom ability allows Altair, 
 (the main character) to move almost anywhere doing anything.
  
  The game's cities are surprisingly accurate to historical records and are well polished. The crowd 
 is also a new feature. It's actually fun walking through the crowd because if you want you can 
 push a random person like five feet. You can also use the crowd to help you assassinate another 
 person which is also a bonus.
  
  With beautiful graphics, new features and a surprisingly fun gameplay, Assassin's Creed is a game 
 you have to buy this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ligerz76
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an awesome game with an awesome plot and a lot of really neat and fun gameplay 
 elements.
  
  Plot: 10/10- You start out as Desmond Miles, a bartender who has been taken by scientists who want 
 to access his memories back to one of his relatives. Now I don't want to give the rest away but 
 here is what the main game you play as is about: Set in 1191 AD during the Third Crusade in the 
 Holy Land, this game has to do with a master assassin named Altair who breaks a tenant of this 
 assassin group he is in. He must start over as a student and prove himself by killing nine targets (templars) 
 as he gets his ranking and abilities back. Lots of twists and interesting characters. Interesting 
 stuff.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10-As an assassin you have many awesome abilities. You can climb up buildings by simply 
 grabbing onto objects sticking out from them and climbing. If you are at a high enough point you 
 can look around at your surroundings, adding new objectives and such. You can use your fists, throwing 
 knives (which you have to pickpocket thugs to get and when you are down to your last one can use 
 it just as a regular stabbing weapon) , a hidden blade which is useful for stealth assassinations, 
 and a sword which is best for combat out in the open. Before you assassinate your targets you must 
 complete some investigations which involve eavesdropping, pickpocketing, interrogation, etc. which 
 help you learn about your target. The cool thing is, once you know enough about your target you 
 can plan out your assassination or just charge right at him. The game is free roaming so you can 
 plan out when and where to do things among four cities and a whole land in between. You can get 
 a horse to make traveling faster. You can even go back to the game with all of your stats once 
 you have beaten it to do side missions and tons of other fun things and secrets the game has to 
 offer. There are two types of actions, high and low profile. Low profile blends you in and makes 
 you get places without raising suspicion and high profile actions could give you away or make people 
 suspicious about what you are doing. Combat is fun and runs very well as there are many combat 
 abilities you get over the course of the game. My only drawback is the fact that the game is repetitive, 
 but that didn't stop me from loving it. Even if it is repetitive it still is fun no matter how 
 many times you do something.
  
  Controls: 8/10-A little confusing at first with the whole "high profile, low profile" actions thing 
 but you will get the hang of it within a few hours of play.
  
  Graphics: 9/10-Absolutely gorgeous. Everything looks so pretty and detailed. Cities are especially 
 impressive because of all of the detail put into the buildings. Character models look excellent 
 and have the most realistic, fluid movements I have ever seen. It only has a few graphical glitches 
 that hold it back. This game is pure eye candy otherwise.
  
  Difficulty: 10/10-Just right. No stupid AI or overly hard fighting. Situations are easy or hard 
 depending on your conflict rather than being easy or hard all the way through. This is one of the 
 few games that has the difficulty perfect without a difficulty slider or selection.
  
  Overall: 10/10-With amazing graphics, interesting plot, and very fun if slightly repetitive gameplay, 
 Assassin's Creed is a great, must buy experience that no gamer should miss out on.
  
  ESRB: Rated M for Mature
  Blood-Blood flies through the air in all directions but does not splatter 
 to the ground. It puffs out when you hit someone with a weapon. Counter kills are the bloodiest 
 thing in the game because they are gruesome moves in which Altair takes whatever weapon he has 
 and dodges the enemy's attack to go in for an easy kill that goes into a close up of him stabbing 
 someone through the stomach or taking a knife only to put it into the back of someone's head, all 
 the while blood sprays through the air in all different directions.
  Strong Language-There is the occasional swear word that Altair uses but it is much more noticeable 
 while you are playing through the brief portions of the game that you be Desmond Miles.
  Violence-Realistic, historic swordplay and stealthy kills.
  
  ESRB recommended age: 17+
  
 My recommended age: 15+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deodoxen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the best games I have ever played. I got it last Christmas and I couldn't 
 put it down. Assassin's Creed takes place in 1191 during the middle of the Crusades. You are Altair, 
 an assassin. At the beginning your master asks you to kill somebody but due to your cockiness, 
 you underestimate your target and he kills your partner and leaves you alive only to deliver a 
 message to your master. Your master then strips you of your status and makes you the lowest in 
 the echelon. He then gives you nine targets and you regain a little bit of your status with every 
 target you kill. The game also has a present day storyline, but it is not as nearly in depth as 
 the 1191. Basically, two scientist are searching your memory for an ancient treasure. You are the 
 descendant of Altair and the scientists believe that the memory has been passed down to you genetically. 
 
  
  But enough of the summary. Assassin's Creed is highly addictive, I couldn't put it down. It is 
 not too short and not too long. The storyline gets confusing towards the middle of the game, but 
 eventually it clears everything up at the end. There is a major twist after the killing of the 
 9th target so you never get bored. The cutscenes are excellent, especially the ability to switch 
 cameras for a better focus on the subtle, important things. Nothing is more fun than sneaking up 
 behind a guard and slicing open his throat, dropping him on the ground, and then slowly falling 
 back into the crowd with the guards rushing to find the culprit, and slipping right under their 
 nose. While I was playing this game, I almost felt like I was playing Spiderman, because you can 
 climb on virtually everything. Anything that protrudes even an inch is a ledge and you can climb 
 up just about every building and jump from rooftop to rooftop to get somewhere faster.
  
  The only cons I have to mention about this game is that it gets repetitive towards the end. It 
 gets a little boring climbing all the viewpoints and saving all the citizens. But even then, these 
 are completely optional so they are not necessary. But if you are a completionist like me, it gets 
 a little boring. The combat also could use a little improvement. You have a limited arsenal and 
 I spent 90% of combats in a defensive stance. There are some very unique ways of killing the guards 
 though, but it isn't a whole lot of fun trying to fend off 20 guards. The last thing that could 
 use a little improvement are the graphics. The cutscenes are excellent in graphics, but during 
 gameplay there are times when I feel like I'm playing my PS2. They are very rare times, but when 
 it happens, it's noticed. Some parts of the game just aren't as smooth as they could be.
  
  There is also one thing that is both good and bad about the game. No spoiler here, but the last 
 line of the game is a question. It is a huge cliffhanger and I was really mad that it had to end 
 that way, but I also think it is a good way to end it. It sets the game up in a good spot for a 
 sequel, but then again, there isn't really anything you can do back in 1191, so I doubt a sequel 
 will be made.
  
  But all and all, Assassin's Creed is a must. I give it a 9.0 rating. Of all the games that came 
 out this past holiday season, I think this one is the most addicting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyedebbie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Day 1, WOW
  
  I've only been playing this for a few hours and its just amazing. Looking at the environment is 
 just unbelievable. This is such an amazing experience....
  
  Day 14, Have i not already done this. Admitedly, this is one of the best games ive boight in a 
 long time, but come on, how many times do i have to pickpocket people / Attack People / Assasinate 
 people till i get to the end.
  
  The game is very captivating, the story seems brilliant, but the gameplay itself is very repetitive. 
 Thankfully the kingdom doesn't have to be travelled every time i have to go to a new city, if i 
 had i would have through the control through the window. Its hard to classify this game, 
  
  "Almost, but not quite" doesn't describe it enough, but nothing else does, so it will have 
 to so. The game would be alot better if it was not so repetitive, but apart from that, its a must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkster91
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  This is one of the games that look incredible, but the gameplay is not as top notch.
  
  I hate the f@rging cut-scenes which you can't skip, which render the game to have no replay value, 
 because let's face it; nobody wants to have to sit through the same boring long dialogue more than 
 once.
  
  Plus the story line wasn't as good as some people make it out to be. I predicted who the "real 
 bad guy" before I even got any where near the end of the game. It was way too obvious.
  
  This is a game that I would only recommend borrowing just to see how good it looks. Its gameplay 
 value is very low.
  
  You have to have a lot of patience to watch those boring cutscenes, which even they are repetitive 
 as the gameplay.
  
  Furthermore, there are some incredibly pointless journeys you have to make again and again just 
 to get out of a safe zone to get to another city where all the proper action takes place.
  
  If the cutscenes were skippable, my view of this game would be a lot less harsh, but I find 
 it an inexcusable crime to force players to watch this cr@p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  This review contains spoilers that occur within the first minute of game play.
  
  As you probably know by now, the entire gaming population is split on this game. There are some 
 gamers who think this is one of the best games of the year, beating out Mass Effect, Bioshock, 
 Halo 3, and Call of Duty 4. However, there are some gamers who think this is one the biggest disappointments 
 in gaming history. I fall somewhere in between the views.
  
  I was never excited about Assassins Creed. Games like Mass Effect, Bioshock and Call of Duty 4 
 were the big releases in my mind. But there are gamers who were extremely pumped for this game 
 based on nothing. When I first saw Assassin's Creed I thought it was just a next gen version of 
 Prince of Persia.
  
  The game begins with a huge twist that many people wouldn't have known about unless they read into 
 the game a lot. I, for one, liked the twist that the game actually takes place in the present (or 
 near future... I forgot) instead of in the world you thought it would take place, Jerusalem, Damascus, 
 and Acre. So, there is this machine, the Animus, that lets you relive your ancestors memories. 
 A neat idea. So you begin the game and learn that Altair is not the best assassin.
  
  So slowly you save the day and kill the 9 bad guys until you finally reach the ending where you 
 figure out the bad guy is the person you have suspected ever since you assassinated your first 
 target. Now most people complain about the ending because the ending is a complete advertisement 
 for the next the sequel but I don't really have a problem with that. My big problem is that it 
 took 9 people to assassinate for Altair to finally grow some balls and do what he should have done 
 long before.
  
  The graphics are solid. There is nothing really to complain about here besides the fact that Kristen 
 Bell looks kind of weird. The game looks exactly like a next generation game should look.
  
  The sound is also effective. The orchestrated music, one of the things that I personally enjoy 
 in games, was not necessarily bad but nothing groundbreaking that had me excited. Swords clashing, 
 hearing your equipment make noise while you run, and Altair making little groans when you fall 
 all sound realistic enough. The voice acting wasn't bad but nothing spectacular either.
  
  Finally, the gameplay is where the game fails to impress. Assassin's Creed has to be one of the 
 most repetitive games ever made. Eavesdropping, pickpocketing, interrogation, and assassinations 
 are all you do. I can't simply state enough that this game falls apart because of repetition. I 
 will inform you what happens during every assassination process. 
  
  
  1) You go to the city where your target is at.
  2) You go to the Assassins Bureau.
  3) You 
 do 3 tasks. (Eavesdropping, pickpocketing, interrogation)
  4) You return to the Bureau.
  5) You assassinate your target.
  6) You run back to the Bureau.
  7) You flash forward to Maysaf 
 and get a dumbass conversation between Altair and the leader of assassins (forgot his name) .
  
  That is all you do. 9 times. This gets extremely repetitive. 
  
  My big personal nitpick 
 and you may not share the same because I hate stealth games is the enemy system. I accidentally 
 touch a guard and everything goes nuts and 100 enemies spawn near me and I have to fight all of 
 them only to touch another guy and get another 100 enemies swarm me. But the fun part is you get 
 to counter their attacks which is an interesting technique.
  
  The achievements in the game aren't hard but they take some time and effort. As long as you talk 
 to Lucy after every memory block and press a button during every 'glitch', you can get every achievement 
 on the first play through. Also, collecting hundreds of items just like in Crackdown should keep 
 you entertained for hours.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed isn't a horrible game. Hopefully the sequel can fix the problems in the 
 game and make it an actual 'must' buy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutale910
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  The graphic and the movements of the character are amazing. This is the first impression of the 
 game, the fluidity of the movements the views and the atmosphere are spectacular. As soon as you 
 proceed with the playing you start to get frustrated by how repetitive it becomes. I'm not only 
 talking in terms of story (you keep killing people in the same way) but also in terms of action 
 (you end up fighting using the same counterattack move all the times, which allows you to kill 
 any amount of guards you like) . Also the dialogues are to long and they interrupt the playing often, 
 I don't understand why they didn't insert an option that allows to skip some of them... 
  Therefore instead of playing a game it is like watching a nice movie with a kind of confusing ending. 
 Some of the achievements (flags and crusaders) are incredibly frustrating and boring.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuartturner101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  If you are an achievement hog, then as I say the tasks to get those points are repetitive but don't 
 let that put you off of a game that sucks you in from the beginning. You will enjoy the views and 
 the atmosphere if nothing else.
  The nature of the game is that from the control method, to the free-roaming to the structure; does 
 not put many obstacles in your way to stop you from enjoying the experience.
  As a result though, it will largely be done to personal preference whether the controls are right 
 for you or, if they make life too easy. You will thank their forgiving nature those when chased 
 by dozens of guards.
  The storyline also, will come down to personal preference whether you like that aspect of it will 
 depend on you seeing it as a fresh idea to breath life into a genre or a bit too much on the fantastical.
 
  It's easy to enjoy and get sucked in and so you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  A definitive part of the offline collection. There is so many places to go and people to kill, 
 I havent got bored yet. I think that the 360 version is sweet compared to the PS3, not that either 
 of them arent worth playing. However if you were thinkin of which system to get it for I would 
 for sure go with the 360 version. The achievements alone make it a step above plus 360's better 
 GC makes for a smoother look. Just know this game is Fun to be Crushed. ooo ooo ooo oooo ooo o 
 oo o o o oo o o o o oo o oo o oo o oo oo oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o o oo 
 o o oo o o oo o oo o o oo o oo o o oo o oo o oo o oo o o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo o oo oo o 
 ooooo oo oo o oo o oo o oo o o oo o oo o o oo o ooooo o oo o oo oo oo o oo oo oooo oo oo oooooo 
 oo o o o o oo o o o oo o o o o o oo o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oooooo o oo o 
 oo o o oo o oo o oo oo o oo oo o oo oooooooo o o o oo o o o o o o oo oo o oo ooo oo oo o oo o oo 
 oo o o ooo oo oo o oo ooo o oo o o oo o o o o oo o o oo o o o o o o o o o oo ooo o o oo o o o o 
 o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o ooo o= over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  'Assassin's Creed' takes several pages from real history involving the mysterious Hashshashin society 
 of the twelfth century. The story develops within a free-roaming world into a complex, two-part 
 plot revolving around a man and his ancestor who share the same assassination trade. The uniqueness 
 in gameplay marries two worlds, one made of ancient memories played as a shadowy killer, the other 
 world set in a sequestered future. As the adventure plays out, the gimmicks reveal themselves, 
 then slowly repeat themselves to an unfortunate grind. Is there enough original content to justify 
 the repetition? That depends on how much you enjoy filling the role of assassin. 
  
  * Gameplay: As Altair, you are a veteran assassin, easily passing as an ordinary scholar among 
 the masses, but able to stalk and attack a target with the grace of a leopard. The weapons you 
 are given are minimal but very effective, from throwing knives that almost always instantly kill, 
 to a sword that keeps alerted guards from overpowering you. A hidden blade lets you deal death 
 silently (and quite cinematically) , as long as no one else is around to witness. After a brief 
 introductory session, the game world opens up for exploration. Eventually you wend your way through 
 the Kingdom to visit one of three cities to assassinate prominent players in a united conspiracy. 
 You are given a target, then proceed to collect information in various forms in order to be given 
 the okay to assassinate the target. You can pickpocket, eavesdrop and interrogate subjects to gain 
 this information, or you can roam about the world doing side missions for fellow assassins, hunt 
 for flags, locate high points to uncover the map, save citizens from bullying guards, or hunt down 
 templar knights. I mention all this as if it was an afterthought because that's how most of it 
 feels. Collecting information becomes a side effect of merely roaming about each city without ever 
 directly pursuing them. Once a few high points open up the map, these info-gathering steps simply 
 fall in front of you. They became so unimportant to the story that I quickly forgot what the point 
 of doing so was. The saving grace of even bothering with all this is the skill at which Altair 
 can attack his targets. Sneaking up on a guard and plunging your blade through his back is quiet 
 satisfying, as is the many other methods of execution, including my personal favorite, walking 
 up to a guard harassing a citizen and leaping down his throat with the hidden blade. It makes the 
 reaction of the other guards and peasants thrilling once they realize what just happened. While 
 stealth-killing a guard feels right, taking on a squadron of sword-wielding enemies isn't nearly 
 as satisfying. The standoff itself can be intense, wondering which guard will strike next, but 
 there is no real swordsmanship here. You simply hit a couple of well-timed buttons and watch as 
 Altair goes ballistic. This mechanic works well enough, but you can't help feeling you wish you 
 had more control over the character. When you are sick of fighting, especially for trivial things 
 like bumping someone carrying a vase, you can try to evade the guards by running away and hiding 
 out of sight. The display icon that alerts your status to the guards makes it helpful to determine 
 if now is a good time to jump into a pile of hay, leap into a rooftop hideout or blend in with 
 peasants on a bench or in a crowd of scholars. It can be very exciting to get chased through a 
 city, especially after a successful assassination. It's all great fun for about half the game, 
 then the realization begins to sink in that you are pretty much doing the same thing, and the gameplay 
 never changes. An attempt is made to vary things up by doling out your new combat moves and counters 
 over time, but it feels like a design cheat. If your greatest thrill is to strictly play an assassin, 
 killing and evading the guards, welcome to your new home. (8.5)
  
  * Narrative: The switch in the plot is that you aren't actually an assassin in the twelfth century, 
 you are a twenty-first century bartender who has only dabbled in the killer-for-hire trade and 
 didn't even know you had a knife-flinging ancestor in the family tree. Enter the lab coats who 
 explain all this and insult you into going along with their nefarious plans to rebuild moments 
 in history by hooking you up to the Animus, a machine that unlocks memories stored genetically 
 in your brain. Right. The crux of the story is spent traveling from city to city as commanded by 
 the Assassin's Guild to gather information in order to eliminate key targets. While the methods 
 of gaining information through pickpocketing, interrogation and eavesdropping serve to advance 
 the story in a nonlinear fashion, the wordiness of dialogue that accompanies them are hard to piece 
 together to form the full story. Once the target has been nullified, you are subjected to more 
 lengthy, cryptic narrative in the netherworld of the Animus machine, and somehow expected to keep 
 up with the common thread behind all these men that ends up meaning nothing since it was all filtered 
 through lies. What it actually means is that we are expected to "stay tuned" for the next installment 
 to find out the "real" story. I've written in a previous game review that I find the idea of delivering 
 games in unfinished chapters to be a designer's conceit, as well as a punch in the wallet to someone 
 expecting a complete gameplay experience. To be fair, the Altair storyline does wrap itself up, 
 even if it leaves an opening for further adventures. (8.0)
  
  * Level Design: The cities are incredible to walk through and leap about. The streets roll naturally 
 and in such unending pathways that remind me of the layouts of the oldest sections of many European 
 cities. All four cities and the outlying Kingdom have completely different styles of building to 
 climb. The beauty of design reveals itself when you are being chased, leaping and swinging across 
 beams, roofs and merchant shops to distance yourself. It's incredibly natural. There is a unique 
 "load time" feature that lets you tool around with Altair for a few seconds while the "memory" 
 is being accessed. You are only able to access a third of each city at a time, forcing you to visit 
 each of them once before progressing. After completing an assassination mission, you are forced 
 to return to the Guild located in Masyaf, which thankfully offers the opportunity to do so immediately 
 rather than travel through the kingdom. From a narrative standpoint I had no problem with this, 
 but they could have made it just as easy to journey to the next mission rather than running pell-mell 
 down the hill and across the valley on horse just to access the gate jump to any city. The most 
 annoying level access problem occurs after the story is over. If you haven't cleaned out all the 
 side missions and hidden items by then, you must go through a convoluted memory-restore process 
 to put you back in the game, listen to the same speech again, then ride out through the countryside 
 again just to get to the city you wish to continue hunting in. (9.0)
  
  * Graphics: What makes the world of "Assassin's Creed" so amazing is the level of detail in the 
 smallest of objects. Vases, patterns in rugs, wrinkles in clothing, cracks in the adobe walls, 
 all of which recreate the time period exquisitely. People move about realistically, stopping at 
 shops, talking to each other, begging for change and preaching to crowds. The guards act and react 
 to everything you do, and the combat animations move fluidly. The horses are fantastic to ride, 
 reacting to the terrain and refusing to do anything stupid that would get you both killed. Altair 
 starts out humble enough, dressed in the robes of a scholar for easy blending when the need arises. 
 Later on it becomes a bit silly to "blend" while wearing armor and equipped with visible weaponry. 
 Altair's movements are humble and reserved when he needs to be, yet nimble and spry when scaling 
 windows and leaping across rooftops. The animation is remarkably seamless. Moving from street to 
 wall to beam to rooftop is like watching water flow. Although each city has a unique design and 
 overall color to it, the palettes for the entire game world are desaturated to the point of lifelessness. 
 Acre wallows in pale blues while Jerusalem's melancholy golds evoke peacefulness. Of course, the 
 muted colors serve to intensify the blood as it spurts out of each opponent. Since this is all 
 a memory anyway, the soft lighting and fuzzy textures make perfect sense. So do the memory glitches, 
 a neat effect that pops chemical formulas into view to remind you that none of this is really happening. 
 You would think that the real world laboratory scenes might be a little more vivid to provide a 
 contrast, but the lighting and colors are pretty much the same. (9.5)
  
  * Sound: The soundtrack is composed of Persian music, and I definitely hear the strings of tars, 
 the ney flute and the drums of a tombak. The best example of the music accompanying the gameplay 
 is the first time you ride into Damascus. The score builds to a crescendo just as you round the 
 corner and eye the entire city from the distant hillside. It really sets the mood. I wish they 
 would have included some street musicians in the cities, but at least you can hear the music playing 
 from somewhere. During a swordfight or street chase, the music flawlessly morphs into an energetic 
 piece. Every time you stab someone, you hear an orchestral crash, punctuating the moment. There 
 is a lot of voice work, enough to contribute to the overall feel of the city, but not enough for 
 cities of this size which leads to some repetition in dialogue. Enough has been said about the 
 voice of Altair, which is way out of place. (9.5)
  
  * Value: Sandbox elements ensure that there is plenty to do during or after the story concludes. 
 It's a single-player experience, and I can't see how a multiplayer option would have fit in. The 
 story isn't very long and the cities aren't so big that finding all the various hidden flags and 
 templars would seem daunting. Again, if you are only in it for the assassinations, rent it. (9.0)
 
  
  * Tilt: Aside from a ridiculous throwaway gameplay element in "Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness", 
 I've never played a game that involved stealth tactics like this. Stealth isn't the main purpose, 
 but I do see the appeal of games that don't always require you to leap in and blast everything 
 that moves. I've got a copy of Splinter Cell somewhere around here, and I may finally try it out. 
 (7.5)
  
  RealScore: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter_44
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Well this is just one of those games old timer's like myself constantly gripe about. I love the 
 premise. I love the graphics. The game play handles well too. But good lord this is a shockingly 
 repedetive and mind blowingly easy game. In fact, it's probably the easiest game i've played on 
 the Xbox thus far. 
  
  They use a lot of the same bells and whistles GTA did, with a free, open world that you can explore 
 and unlimited violence that you can unleash on the crowd. Just like in GTA though, do too much 
 of it, and you need to find a place to hide until things blow over a bit.
  
  The graphics are just stunning and perhaps the best i've seen in a game yet. They're SO good, that 
 you rally do get lost in the whole experience. THe bums bother you in back alleys, the drunks pick 
 fights, the crazies are well, crazy. The whole package is just unreal. 
  
  Unfortuantely though, this is about as basic as they come. Kill a guy, run, hide, do it over again. 
 There's really no rhyme nor reason to do any more investigating than you have to as everything 
 is really pretty easy. The setting and premise is awesome but the storyline is just kinda.... lame. 
 Altiar isn't a very likeable hero and the other characters just aren't very hate-able or otherwise. 
 
  
  This is fun for a while and on a technical level, it's definately an achievement. But outside of 
 that, it's another game. Maybe not even that good a game. While I usually say gamespot's pretty 
 dead on the money with their ratings, this one is definately an exception. It's fun, but not in 
 the upper echilon of titles we have seen in 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thaumaturgy
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  When you first start playing Assassin's Creed chances are you'll be amazed. The graphics and the 
 artistic talent that went into this game are magnificent. But as you get a couple of hours into 
 the game, it starts getting quite repetitive.
  
  You play as an assassin named Altair in 1191 AD. In your first mission Altair messes up and gets 
 people killed and injured. To make up for this he is sent out to assassinate nine evil men.
  
  These men are placed in three major cities. Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus. The cities themselves 
 are divided into three parts as well. Poor, middle and rich district. All these areas have one 
 guy that is about to get a rather nasty case of death.
  
  To be allowed to start your assassination you have to do some research on your target and here 
 is where the repetition starts. To see were the information givers are located you have to climb 
 a high tower to get an overview. Do that and you get a couple of ways to retrieve info about the 
 target. You could either pickpocket someone for the info, you can beat the info out of them, do 
 a race to collect flags or complete a set of timed assassins in exchange for the info. The silliest 
 way of acquiring information is eavesdropping. You can't fail at this, there is no wrong way, no 
 challenge to this what so ever. Basically you sit down on bench, push a button and a short sequence 
 is played in which you are given the info, end.
  
  After you retrieved the necessary information you have to do the assassination. This is done by 
 going to the marked place on the map where the target is located. Get close. Press the assassination 
 button. Hide. Thats it! Noir hard or exciting.
  
  That is basically it. You do these 5-6 things over and over again through the entirety of the game. 
 You'll get to fight a bunch of soldiers through out the game as well. The fighting is so easy that 
 it makes you wonder why you would have to hide and be stealthy at all. Altair is a guy who could 
 easily take on 30-40 soldiers at once, just by mashing X. Especially when they are all conveniently 
 lined up and only attacks you one at a time.
  
  I do not want to give away the ending. But for all the grinding of repetitive tasks you've done 
 over the course of maybe 15 hours, it does NOT pay of in any way. The games' ending surely promises 
 a sequel but does not provide any closure.
  
  What I see in this game makes me optimistic about the sequel though because this is not a horrible 
 game in any way. It's just not all the hype said it would be. The story is quite interesting in 
 spots, the graphics and the animations are spectacular. The way the town folk behave is really 
 impressive when you first witness it. The citizens react to what you do in a realistic way. If 
 you start climbing on a wall you'll soon hear someone saying: "What is he doing? He is going to 
 kill himself!" Little stuff like that will probably give you a laugh. I just wish there was more 
 "game" in Assassins Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatchetman696
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  So finally there is a single player game on the 'next-gen' consoles definatly worth playing alone 
 and ditching your girlfriend for. We're talking about Assassin's Creed, one of the most visually 
 stunning additions to the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. 
  As we look to what the game is about, you play as Altiar, an assassin, part of an assassin guild, 
 set in about the same time as The Crusades. You're sent out to assassinate foes of your allies, 
 and make the world a better place. The story goes deeper than that, "SPOILER ALERT", you're actually 
 a guinea pig in the modern day, trying to 'make the world a better place'.
  We look at this game, and realize there is tons of hype, so much hype, that it seemed too good 
 to be true from a mediocore company such a Ubisoft. Sure Ubisoft has its highlights in the Tom 
 Clancy field, but Mr. Clancy's games can feel generic at times, usually after the game gets it 
 first sequel. Ubisoft created a gem here though, finally they can rise above the studio only known 
 for "Tom Clancy Presents..." and "Prince of Persia", and create a fresh new franchise. The best 
 way to look at this game would clash Prince of Persia, Splinter Cell and Grand Theft Auto franchises 
 in to one of the best looking games availible. This game really makes you want to put those long 
 hours in the matchmaking for Halo 3 to rest, and pick up something you can do by yourself.
  The most apparent flaw is during most of the 'cut-scenes' you're able to move about, though the 
 voice doesn't always match up to the correct tone as needed. I get the fact the closer, the louder, 
 the further, the quieter, this is not the case and can seem random at moments. 
  Though combat can be slow, and the plot make take longer than your usual game to devolop, it does 
 not make this game any less intense than any other game you've player. This game is easily superior 
 to most games availible and worth pick up, especially for the sale price to $39.99 some stores 
 have. Though don't take it as I said this is worth only that, because you can not put a price tag 
 on such an innovative, exciting experience such as Ubisoft created here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rechact
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a good game, but it is unfortunately not what it should have been. Essentially, 
 it amounts to three very pretty jungle gyms for the hero to run and climb, with the occasional 
 repetitive mission intertwined for good measure. 
  
  You take on the role of Altair, an assassin in the Medieval Middle East amidst the crusades. You 
 get cocky and screw up your first mission, costing the life of a comrade, and are thus demoted 
 by the leader of your order. To make amends, and regain status, you are given nine targets in three 
 cities to kill (each city has three districts, you may sense a pattern) . As you complete these 
 missions you will find they are mysteriously connected, and this relates to the overarching plot 
 in the modern world. This story is quite interesting, and sometimes compelling, but is unfortunately 
 sparse at times.
  
  Between these plot elements, you can explore the cities and complete all of the missions in the 
 city. There are only a few kinds of missions, and by the middle of the game they feel very repetitive 
 and uninteresting. Added to this is the lack of ability to truly explore. Once you go up the lookout 
 points, all of the missions and intractable NPCs are displayed on your map for you, and their completion 
 is relatively mundane and simple. Most of the buildings cannot be gone into, and despite the number 
 of people walking the streets, most are either pot-carrying pylons for you to run around or guards. 
 It all looks very nice, and the graphics and cities are beautiful, but feels very hollow, and often 
 lacks a feeling of immersion. 
  
  Since Altair's stealth skills would disappoint a T-Rex (he wears an assassin uniform complete with 
 multiple blades, and always walks around in daylight) , you'll often find yourself in a fight with 
 guards. This is fine, because combat is really easy and simple and the fighting AI is a joke. Guards 
 will always circle you, then attack one a time so that you can counter attack. This is really all 
 fighting is, wait in defensive stance until they attack, then press X, and they will die. You can 
 attack, but usually they'll just parry you. There are no cool moves (excepting some of the auto-parry 
 animations) , and no complexity to fighting. It sometimes makes you wish Team Ninja had visited 
 Ubisoft once or twice, since even a little Ninja Gaiden would have gone a long way. The fighting 
 also makes you wonder why you would even ever try to be stealthy. You might as well push and shove 
 your way everywhere, then kill all of the guards who come to get you. Also, since your main assassination 
 targets are usually amidst tons of guards and are immune to throwing knives, you don't feel very 
 assassinish. Garrett from Thief would be very disappointed.
  
  The game won't take more than 15 hours to beat, even if you do all of the quests in each city, 
 but there really isn't much point to them. They're usually uninteresting, and the info you get 
 doesn't actually help your assassination. If you play straight through, it can be quite an enjoyable 
 experience, and the plot and beauty of the cities will keep you going. Look too hard, and you'll 
 see all of the little shortfalls (combat, stealth, lack of NPCs in cities, lack of building interiors, 
 and the fact you die when you fall into the water) . The next installment could be a masterpiece 
 if these are addressed, but for now the game is a good play for a few days, but not particularly 
 memorable. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackWolf0526
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a nearly perfect game. Its unique & the simplest tasks are fun. It has great 
 graphics, high voice quality and smooth gameplay which makes this a must buy. Alright, first off, 
 the story is weird. Some scientist is using a machine called the "animus" to look at your ancestor 
 through your memories. It doesn't make sense to me either but then you end up as an ancient assassin. 
 His story is much better and thats good 'cause he's the one you'll be playing as. His name is Altair. 
 (pronounced Al-tie-ear) He is the leading assassin in some kind of assassins guild. Or, at least 
 he was, hes been disgraced and must regain his honor or something. The best way to do that? Kill 
 everyone they tell you too. Alright, now it gets fun. The game plays smooth and fast, and the combat 
 is amazing. You have to collect information on your target before the assassination by helping 
 people, scouting out the area from a tall building and other things. As you eliminate more targets, 
 you get more equipment and better combat moves. The only drawback I have is that people in this 
 game talk FOREVER. Seriously, you're gonna want something to keep you occupied because some of 
 these can be 10+ minutes of rambling. The only other problem is beggars, drunks, and crazies running 
 up to you all the time. However, the game is still fun. The game world is huge and there are multiple 
 ways to do every assassination which is cool. Just running around fighting is fun too. This game 
 isn't perfect but it's close. The few flaws aren't enough to ruin the game. I look forward to the 
 rest of the franchise. 
  I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishkhan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most hyped games of 2007. And for good reason, with exciting looking 
 gameplay, where you assassinate people in the day and use crowds for cover rather then darkness. 
 The game turned out great but fell short of its true potential.
  
  The game is set in the medieval times during the time of the crusades. The environments look great 
 and very historically accurate, with the sense that these cities are alive. This great atmosphere 
 really brings you into the game, and makes you care about what you're doing. This would all be 
 great if it wasn't for the constant trips back to the future (which is the present) . Were you learn 
 that your going to be forced to relive your ancestor's life to help the scientists locate something 
 valuable your ancestor came in contact with. This really adds nothing to the story and I wish it 
 wasn't in the game.
  
  Once you've master the controllers which shouldn't take to long the game can really get fun. The 
 climbing works great and the crowd controllers are perfect. But this is where I get to a problem. 
 Once you learn the counter attack (LT and X) your almost invincible. You'll be taking out armies 
 of enemies with ease, since they all attack one at a time. This can be fun, but makes the game 
 far too easy.
  
  The game is long enough with an interesting story but will soon become overly repetitive. Before 
 you assassinate each of your nine targets you must first climb to every tall building and then 
 find the four or so side guests they let you do to gain info on your target. This is fun at the 
 beginning but after a few assassinations you're dreading another interrogation, or someone else 
 you have to pick pocket It seems that every person you interrogate is the same person. Why wouldn't 
 they have a different looking person to interrogate in each city? Or maybe there all identical 
 twins
  
  Overall this game is still great with some of the best visuals out there, but falls very short 
 on its true potential. The story is good but the big plot twist happens in the first few minuets 
 of the game, and adds nothing to the game. And the ending is one of the worst I've ever seen in 
 a game, because there really isn't one. Not to wreck it but you'll find yourself wandering around 
 wondering what you have to do then it ends Assassins Creed is fun but overall just a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lou1721
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most overated piece of crap I ever bought. I read the reviews and thought I was 
 buying a game that was in the same league as Gears, halo 3, call of D 4, Bioshock, etc. This game 
 is nothing but dumb cutscenes, boring horsback rides, sitting on benches, and saving the same person 
 over and over and over. The main missions are repetitive and consist of walking up to someone, 
 stabbing them, then the guards come and your supposed to run away and hide. What for, all you have 
 to do is stand their and mash the X button over and over and they all die. Mission over, now you 
 go tell the old man at the burea and move on to do the same thing over again. I paid $60.00 for 
 this piece of crap so I tried to play it and give it a shot hoping that it picks up and gets better, 
 it dosnt, same dumb missions and side crap. Not even worth the rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Did gamespot's reviewer play this for more than 10 minutes? I bought this the day it launched, 
 thinking it was going to be a cool medieval Hitman type game. The first time I played it I was 
 impressed; this is a great LOOKING game. The fact that it has so many AI routines going on is impressive, 
 there a big crowds, lots of guards, etc. But delve deeper and yoou get... nothing.
  
  This game is the biggest dissapointment I've ever had the displeasure of wasting $60 on. It is 
 BORING, you do the same thing, again and again and again and again. Get close to your target, hit 
 X, you kill him, run away and hide then do it again and again and again. There is just nothing 
 to this title that makes it fun. Rent it and enjoy the great looking graphics, especially on a 
 hi-def TV but don't buy it. If you must buy it, drop me an email and I'll sell you mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rank_Reaper69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Playing as Altar, a great Assassin sent on a mission to assassinate 9 men apart of a secret society 
 that plans to start the next crusade. With in the first 30 minutes of game play in Assassin's Creed 
 you will enter a free roam environment of the Holy Land and you will have access to three major 
 city's through out this unique world they are Jerusalem, Damascus, & Acre.
  
  Before you're able to assassinate you're target you will first have to make you're way into the 
 city by blending in with Scholars near by (You can also use the Scholars to hide after you eliminate 
 one of you're targets) . Once you're inside the city you will have to acquire a certain amount of 
 information about you're target before you can assassinate him. There are also different ways of 
 gaining the information you need which is another great thing about this game. Through out the 
 whole game you will find a enormous amount of extra stuff that will help you gain more and more 
 achievements such as Leap of Faiths, Templar's and Flags. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is a really great game and it will change you're prospective view on how different 
 they made this to Price of Persia but it isn't really one of those games that you're gonna play 
 again because of it's repetitive moments so I suggest renting the game first then see what you 
 think of it. It took me about a day and a half to finish it and just buy basically running through 
 the game I got half the achievements with in the first 7 hrs of playing it. Great game, the ending 
 has a big twist so make sure stay tuned in the story line and this is definitely something to keep 
 you from getting bored over the holidays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16tony16
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I am not the person who spends hours on games but when i picked up assassins creed i could not 
 put down the controller. The game play is not hard to use, fighting in the game is excellent and 
 probably the best i have every seen. I found that the difficulty was very simple and there should 
 have been different difficulty's included. I really liked how the city's looked and know that the 
 developers put alot of hard work into making the city's alive. The story line is also a great one, 
 i was always wanting to find out what will happen next and the story was left off so that they 
 can make another game.
  
  In the end assassins creed is a great game and should really be played by everyone. It is not difficult 
 so everyone can play it and just everything about it is amazing.. it is hard to put into words 
 how great it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Playing as Altair, an assassin in the Holy Lands during The Crusades, you enter a huge environment 
 that comes to life with its highly detailed graphics. The game controls are smooth and easy to 
 use and make this game a exciting experience. You enter a world that lets you plan your own strategies 
 on how and when to accomplish your goals. The game has a little bit of everything, stealth, fighting, 
 escape and strategy, making this a wonderful game to play time after time.
  
  The only cons I personally have with the game, deals with sub-characters actions and voice acting. 
 Toward the end of the game, I was getting a little tired of hearing the guards say "Who's responsible 
 for this? Show yourself!" and the soapbox preachers saying "Curse the Christian king" over and 
 over again. The actions of other sub-characters that seemed to deliberately target Altair by means 
 of shoving, begging, and walking in the way were also getting a little bit more than annoying too. 
 
  
  But all being said and done, I give this game an A+ and have to say it one of the best games I've 
 ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Assasin's Creed is pretty much an amazing game, the story has been really well done and will make 
 the player wonder what will happen next. One of the highlights is the Free Roam, Assasinations 
 and chases from Alleys to roof tops with great sword fights and hiding spots to evade from the 
 guards. As you play through the game, Every time you kill an important figure of a kingdom, Parts 
 of your rank is restored and you are rewarded with new weapons and more healthbars. Assasin's Creed 
 also has beautifull scenary and views from the roof tops and you can also jump from God knows how 
 high into a haystack and emerge from it secounds later!
  The characters and plot has been thought out very well and the movie scenes are fun to walk about 
 acting dramatically or just walk around looking like an idiot who needs to go to the toilet! Overall, 
 Assasin's Creed is a great game to have and once you start playing, You can never stop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Wow I am suprised by how over rated this game is. I did want to play it, but man I am glad I didn't 
 buy this merely average game. Let me start off by saying Assassin's Creed is fun for awhile. The 
 biggest problem with the game is that in every city you go you do exactly the same things, and it 
 is extremlly basic. You walk into Assassin's Buraeu, you climb buildings, you do about three investigations, 
 you go back to the Assassin's Buraeu, and then you go assassinate your target. That's all to the 
 mission structure? Yes that's all. It's just insanely repetative and boring after awhile. Since 
 this game has a whole lot of other flaws, I will say that the combat was somewhat fun. The combat 
 is the best when you have about eight guys trying to attack you, and you have to lock onto a certian 
 target at a precise moment, which is pretty fun, and makes the action a little more deep. It's 
 still shockingly easy, and even when you're getting attacked by about 30 guys it hardly feels challenging, 
 because you can just grab them, throw them into a merchant stand, and kill about ten of them instantly. 
 When you're just fight one or two guys, just hit the X button and they'll die quickly. The a. i. 
 in the game is good, but they get really annyoing after awhile. You'll be riding a horse, and they'll 
 apparently think you're an assassin but if you move slow they won't ever attack which is stupid. 
 The same goes when you're running around the city. The a. i. will even follow you up buildings, 
 which becomes even more annoying. The game forces you to fight a whole lot more than you honestly 
 want to, and made me turn off the game several times because of it. Even if the game were a little 
 more varied it still would not be great. The game's a. i. is constantly annoying, the missions are 
 extremlly short and uniteresting, and the combat is always easy, and the combat can get boring 
 fast. The game is also short, and can be beaten in a few days. There are extras to do, but yet 
 again, they get very repetative and extremlly boring fast. The game does look and sound really 
 good, and the story is pretty good, but I don't know why there are as many cutscenes as there are 
 in a RPG, the cutscenes seem ridiculous for an action game. Overall 6.5/10 Assassin's Creed is 
 a merely average game, that is pretty shallow and boring throughout. This game is insanely over 
 rated, and is not even worth a look from anyone considering that almost every game on the 360 these 
 days is better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfandango
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Number one game for how long? ... Why? It seems to me that just like Hollywood, games have been 
 overwhelmed by developing amazing graphics and life like physics that the gamepay and storylines 
 have been left to waste.
  
  I'd expected a highly addictive and immersing game where I'd take the role of an assasin, sneak 
 around, gather information in a cunning assasin like way and plan jobs whilst interacting with 
 my surroundings (like the XBOX now has full capabilities of doing) in order to assasinate the targets. 
 I was so wrong...
  
  The graphics are awe inspiring and controlling gameplay is incredibly smooth and easy to pick up. 
 I think the controls are so easy because there's not really much to control or do. Essentially, 
 the basics you do in assins creed is:
  - Run through sexy looking environments without being able to interact with much
  - Engage in 
 easy, repetative combat.
  - Rescue the same man or woman over and over without much benefit.
  - Sit on a bench and listen 
 to a linear plot.
  - Hit someone for no reason and hide until they think you've gone.
  - Climb towers to see almost identical cutscene's.
  - Use the same boring weapons throughout.
 
  - Colect flags.
  - walk up to a select few characters each level and press the pick pocket button to recieve a useless 
 item.
  
  Really, it makes nop difference if you are sneaky or not. All you have to do is jump in some hay 
 for a few seconds or hit the guards and you're safe again.
  
  This game should have taken the best bits from the GTA series or the concept of Hitman whilst adding 
 RPG elements. Instead its a boring repetative, dumbed down game that won't have any lasting value.
 
  
  By all means, if you don't look for depth or interaction in your games and are satisfied by graphics 
 over content, please buy Asasin's creed... Or buy a film or read a book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicariouslyme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  I drove to a 24 hour tesco about half an hour away from where i live at 12 at night to get this 
 game i was that eager to lay my hands on it. While in tesco i bought all my snacks and was ready 
 for an intense night of gaming. I put the disc in my Xbox and was ready to roll.. it started off 
 great and the story seemed to be really deep i was playing for only half an hour and i thought 
 to myself this is really repetative.. and stopped playing.. i was dissapointed that all the hype 
 was for nothing.. i went to bed and got up the next day deciding to give it another shot.. with 
 only one combat move i wasnt really enjoying it.. deciding to stick it out i assisinated the first 
 guy on the list and gained the extra ability after that i was hooked.. the fighting became intense, 
 great graphics captured your attention every where you looked and as the story progressed you were 
 kept wondering what is going on.
  As i unlocked new weapons and abilities the game got better and better and the twists was great. 
 The ending in my opinon was a good ending for any game leaving it wide open for the next game, 
 as for replay ability i think this game will only get replayed when the next one is due to come 
 out and i need to refresh on the story line. For Xbox gamers who like to grab acheivements this 
 game has a mixture of well laid out acheivements and will take a little bit of time to hit the 
 1000 mark.
  All in all 8.5 for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  You know those games tht like make you think defferently about the world? This is one of them. 
 Where to start? You see the beggining as yourself, only you're Desmond, a bar owner and former 
 assassin. What's that, oh yeah, you get to see Desmond in a former life as Altair, a Master Assassin 
 with a very big head... Which gets you into trouble most of the time, but we like trouble right? 
 The game **** rules! The achievments are very challenging and make the game into WAAAAYYY more 
 depth of what Altair, the famous Assassin in 1271 A. D. You fight Templars, ensuring that theirs 
 going to be happiness at the end of it, closing in closer and closer you find many gaps in your 
 Master's words. He nearly kills you, to rebirth you, but as you can see... Altair did not change... 
 You can use a hidden blade, it's insane, you use it in secret or in broad day light; always lethal 
 if used correctly. A Short blade, aka Knife and Dirk, used for throwing other knives, lethal all 
 the time, and can be used in battle... my choice of melee weapon. A sword, always a good sword 
 fight, right? It's distinct, out loud, large and hurtful, this is for blocking attacks and thrusts; 
 a sword. And, well, your fists. Nothing special, fists is all. Your dressed in all white except 
 for your weapons and pants. You can lead from building and climb them all in the same second. You 
 can blend into other scholars, benches, hay piles (which is sikk) , and odd building foundations 
 all over the towns. You can leap from buildings from any height and land in hay... which for some 
 reason saves your life all together. If you cannot tell, I'm in love with this game. I beat it 
 about a week, which was depressing, and got everything in like a week after that. If you don't 
 already have this game get it. If you can't, steal it from one of your friends. Believe me it's 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is the the type of game that comes out rarely, everything it does is spectacular. 
 But you will ask yourself? Why don't I love this game. Creed does everything right but isn't all 
 the hype that people were debating about and it shuts up all those that despise of the game. Death 
 has always been a crucial part of gaming, but assassins creed brings a whole new meaning, not gameplay 
 wise but as a plot. Several times in the game you will ask yourself, am i doing the wrong thing? 
 Is the person i just killed innocent, were they right.? Stories have progressed drastically threw 
 the years and assassins creed is a great example of fine storytelling. Its one of the big highlights 
 of the game, if not the most important. 
  
  At first, i believed the negativity surrounding the game. honestly, i was a little reluctant because 
 the screens looked like nothing it was a couple yrs ago. And the fact that the game throws in a 
 sci-fi twist that you wont see coming doesnt make it any better. honestly, i thought i had bought 
 the wrong game at first watching a matrix like animus with a naive dude not knowing what the hell 
 is going on. Actually this twist goes along with the story pretty well, its not as fleshed out 
 as the medievil stuff that the game has, but it does fill in a lot of background. you are Altair ( 
 means flying eagle in Arabic) a young assassin that is part of a much larger guild. It feels as 
 much as a hitman agency ,as well as a large group of ninjas in training. assassins creed also has 
 a prince of persia feel to it as well. You are the highest ranked assassin in the guild, but you 
 go about things diffrently than your fellow peers. Incidently, This leads you to a most horrible 
 fate as you are responisble for not following the creed (rules) and you fail your mission as you 
 were to retrieve a artifact but you did not suceed. Altair is impulsive but smart at the same time. 
 His lust for battle had jeopeordized the operation as one of your fellow brothers die. You then 
 return home to find out that your master is most displeased with you are to be punished. you are 
 stripped of your rank and are forced to start all over. To do this, Al Mualim (your master) says 
 that there are 12 bad men in the land that need to killed. This leads to a grand story and Adventure 
 that is one of the best this year. The encounters in the story are diffrent that other games as 
 if you are in a actual novel and the plot is much darker and deeper than other action games. (sans 
 god of war, devil may cry. etc) Which is better that most games today.
  
  Prince of persia had unique style that is passed on to Assassins creed. Everything but free-roaming 
 is in the game such as time-based fighting, free running etc. Altair is every bit agile as prince, 
 and maybe even better. Scaling tall structure in assassins creed is a breeze, thanks to a excellent 
 puppetering control scheme. The four face buttons are seperated in differnt parts of altair's body. 
 Such as head, legs etc. Pulling and holding the Right Trigger brings a whole new set of options. 
 I also like how the game seperates your actions in high and low profiles. High profile is much 
 quicker more violent actions, where low profile is silent and sneaky. This is proabaly the first 
 in a game, and i give props to ubisoft montreal for doing this. One thing i should of mentioned 
 about the game is that its graphics are gorgeous, everything is so detailed; from the cracks in 
 the walls, to the moving fabrics in altairs shirt, Assassins creed is just plain beautiful. And 
 it brings this world to life, even though the cities dont have memorable lanes and streets like 
 GTA. Hence no monuments. This is something rookies of the open world devolopers do as i could see 
 why. ubi has been working of prince the past couple years and you cant blame them for trying. At 
 least it looks and sound good though.
  
  Combat is another highlight of the game, simple but effective. One thing i love about it is the 
 time based counters. Man, these are just sweet. I shouldn't even have to mention the brutal violence 
 and intense action either. And your screen will be loaded with blood. yes you can hack and slash 
 tapping X but you wont survive without the timed counters. learn it fast, you'll need it. You start 
 out with all your weapons and abilities but you get stripped of them all after the introduction. 
 this is one thing i hate about it as there is nothing to look foward to. There is no ultra-powerful 
 weapon * (crossbow anyone?) as there is no secrets. instead you get a list of collectible flags which 
 is utterly meaning less. (good achievements though) There are also stealth kills and all that junk 
 but most of the time you will using one of your swords. The advantages of the long sword is that 
 it has range and is way more powerful, but its not as fast as the short blade.
  vice Versa the short blade is that its faster and you can throw dagger simultaneously, which is 
 pretty cool. it doesn't matter which one you choose because they are both useful. you also have 
 your fists too. but thats there for comic mischief. character devolopmen is one thing the game 
 lacks, and the counters are literally randow, (wheres the control?) other than that the combat is 
 basically perfect and i wouldnt trade it for anything.
  
  The Sound in AC is also pretty good, the dialouge is some of the most interesting sayings i ever 
 heard, when you hear something likenothing is true, everything is permitted" gets you out of 
 your seat. one good thing the dialouge does ( and the game) is that it portrays the Middle eastern 
 world in a authenic fashion. you can just feel the realism. the music is also catchy, i like the 
 sci-fi themes and medievil tunes. 
  
  Assassins creed is a superb game. Im glad that i played threw it and i dont regret anything. But 
 there are concerns in the game that keep it from recieving a perfect 10, these concerns are major 
 flaws that definetly hurt the game. gladly the good outshines the bad though. one problem i have 
 is that you cant dive into free-roaming quickly, the only way is to relieve a memory block and 
 ignore the events taking place. Sound simple eh? the problem is that you will have to listen to 
 gut wrenching speeches from your master. Its good the first time you hear it, but after a third 
 and fourth time i covered up my ears. I was honestly sick and tired trying to be enlightened by 
 that old man even when i knew what fate stored at the end. i knew the truth already, and its something 
 that is crucial to the story. after you experience the end the once great lectures have become 
 annoying long lines. Secondly, the game is way too short. I beat in in two days, thats kinda sad 
 because this is supposed to be a free -- roaming game. there isn't much to do execpt play it over 
 again because roaming isnt very fun. That leads me to my final complaint, there are no secrets 
 in the game and i want that crossbow. Other than that, Assassins creed was destined for greatness 
 from the start and if you play the game, it wont be hard to see why..... unless you are ADD or something..... whatever, 
 go play.
  
  *subscores are out of 10
  
  Graphics-10
  
  sound- 8.5
  
  control-10
  
  story-9.0 (barely)
  
  gameplay-9.75
  
  fun-9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HL2Box
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was kind of like a timesplitters 2 sneak mode thing. But other then that I thought this 
 game was good. But there isn't much to do after you complete the game but just kill random people. 
 But they had some good controls. I was able to jump on buildings and get to the other side of the 
 town in no time, so thats good. Its very hard to remember what your main goal in this game is though. 
 The graphics were good, but it makes you feel like a child when he talks. He talks in a bad grammerish 
 kind of way when he talks to people and that makes my person feel weird whitch leads me to killing 
 someone. But anyway, the voice acting was ok here and there. And the sword fighting was addictive 
 at many parts of the game after you upgrade your self to a high enough rank. I would say get it 
 no the xbox350 and not for the pc. The pc has very bad controls so if you are willing to get this 
 game I would say get it on the xbox360. The dead body effects are very good and the gore is good 
 as well, if you are a gore fan. So I after all of that I would rec you renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmulvaney
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Again WOW! 
  Seriously, The graphics are mind boggling, the game play is seemless (aside from the occasional 
 loading screen) and the story line is so deep and intense. There are twists and turns in every 
 direction (literally) . I love this game so much that i bought the Altair collectible figure from 
 NECA and my gf does not mind that he stands at the top corner of the entertainment center ready 
 to dive like a falcon. whatever you do do not play this game and then watch the Nat. Geo. special 
 on the Knights Templar. Ideas really start to run through your head! 
  * Graphics - Breathtaking.
  * Audio - Realistic.
  * Gameplay - for achievement lovers, results 
 in a bit of a chore, but for a first time run through just have fun testing your limits and abilities. 
 I totally enjoyed the strategic concept behind, finding your target, disabling their defenses, 
 and waiting for that opportune moment. Suddenly ... STAB! and its all over...
  Fortunately the game is not all that short, you have plenty of chances to assassinate with stealth 
 or battle with honor. Eventually, once you visit a city for the third time, you will be annoyed 
 with the distances you have to cover after saving, but at that point you will be so immersed in 
 this great storyline that it wont matter all that much. 
  BTW I have accomplished ALL 44 achievements for this game. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10 - Great Next-Gen visuals with unbelievable animations. A few graphical pop-in issues 
 keep it from perfection.
  
  Controls: 8/10 - Smooth, simple controls with a short learning curve. Sword combat is very fun, 
 however counter-kills make fighting very easy.
  
  Story: 8/10 - A unique setting. Primarily good dialogue and characters.
  
  Soundtrack: 6/10 
 - The music is fantastic. The problem is the game features one battle song, which will get old 
 quickly.
  
  Voice Acting: 7/10 - The main complaint lodged would be the weak voice acting for the main character, 
 however NPC dialogue becomes repetitive, predictable and routine.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 - You will undoubtably have 2 different opinions on this front. A first impression, 
 followed 5-10 hours later by a realization that the game is less open ended than Hitman2, and the 
 range of acitons you can take is limited to 5 or so routine, uninspired mission types.
  
  
  PLAY : If you want something differrent.
  DON'T PLAY: If you want something to entertain 
 you for weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamonMitchell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Great Storyline keeps game play going for a number of hours. Ending could have been better. Controls 
 are smooth and very responsive. The selection of weapons allowed a combination of attacks good 
 enough to keep the game interesting. The AI were tough but not too difficult. Objectives were were 
 to the point and widely spread out and designed for a very interactive environment. Assassinations 
 caused for the usage of every aspect of the game. Graphics are beautiful; very realistic and looks 
 like a movie. Every detail is expressed down to the last wrinkle on the faces. Sound and voice 
 acting makes you feel as if you were truly in the period of the third crusade, but they unvaried 
 throughout the game. Achievements were challenging but flags and templars took takes forever and 
 takes away from action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthkwake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  What can i say except that this had been the funnest game I had played in one long time. Some people, 
 such as myself, don't always like the stealth aspect of many games. Charging in Gun-ho style always 
 seemed to fit my preference, but this had brought new perspective to the idea, known as sneaking. 
 At first, assasination may seem easy, to just walk up to someone and give him a taste of your mini 
 hand blade, but after a few more targets being eliminated, you start to see the necessity of planning 
 ahead and using the terrein as your own weapon. While the assasinations may be fun on their own, 
 the funnest part about the game, was trying to escape from the guards and to get to your hiding 
 spot. Lets face it, nothing gets the blood pumping like being chased by 20 guards on the rooftops 
 and one small error could send you tumbling down into a mass of pedestrians (incase you did fall, 
 you could resume the chase by getting the hell out of there) . A game that keeps you guessing with 
 a plot filled with twists and turns, along with a very innovative fighting, assasination, and running 
 system, Assasins Creed is a game meant for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minghui94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  The Good - Fighting is fun when you unlock lots of skill ; jumping around on rooftop is amazing 
 ; assassination with the hidden blade works well ; superd graphic ; realistic gameplay , truely 
 a next gen ; FREEDOM !!!!!
  
  
  The bad - you can't even go anywhere when there is a cutscene ; can be fustrating sometime .
 
  
  
  Assassin creed is a all new next gen game design by Jade Raymond , as this is next gen , it is 
 very realistic .
  
  
  fighting is fun when you unlock lots of skill , but it will make combat extremely easy . you simply 
 just counter yur enemy moves , it is easy , just wait for him to attack , then you press the counter 
 button . when he grab you , just press B to counter it .
  
  
  Realistic gameplay , this game is very realistic . the people will react differently to what you 
 do , this is truely a next gen experience .
  
  This game can be fustrating sometime , but is is still very good ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alter_Echo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a biblical romp through ancient locals with death defying acts of Spiderman 
 inspired homicides. This is what it tries to do and it does so very well. 
  
  Its looks outstanding and sounds equally impressive. The visuals do a fine job of portraying the 
 game's locations but at the end of the day they all end up looking the same which is disappointing. 
 
  
  The sound design is top notch. Everything from the ambient effects and background tracks to the 
 weapon effects and character voices. Voice acting is believable in most places and overall is above 
 average considering how most games are saturated with below average rush job voiceovers. 
  
  Play wise, Assassin's Creed is fun... for a while. Its half way through the game when you start 
 noticing that you are doing the exact same thing over and over that it begins to wear thin. This 
 is compounded by the (in my opinion) ill advised interruptions from the Anibus which only furthers 
 your disjoint from the main character. 
  
  Its sad that such a sprawling game with such attention to detail is so short lived in its innovations. 
 After you kill your first target you have pretty much ( aside from small variations ) done everything 
 the game has to offer. 
  
  Unless you are an achievement junky who prides themselves on getting 100% in every game there is 
 virtually no replay value. 
  
  
  In the end you have a very well presented game with high production values that falters due to 
 extremely repetitive gameplay and lack of variety. It is still a solid action adventure game and 
 should not be overlooked based on its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabrielmorgado
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game a little confusing in the start (and in the end) , but after few minutes 
 i'll learn to climb, fight, hide, and other things. The combat system is short and easy. In this 
 game, you can climb everything, the problem is the flags, in all the game are 480 flags, when you 
 collect 100 flags of a kind, you say:
  -I win 25 gamerscore for 100 flags?
  You must kill 9 persons in the game, first you must investigate about your target, you need do 
 short missions to discover one thing about your target, this missions are: Eavesdrop, just sit 
 in a nearby breach and listen the conversation of 2 peoples. Pickpocket, you must pick up a thing 
 in the belt of someone. Interrogation, you must intimidate a person who know too much, is just 
 punch, and after kill. Informer, a people who need kill 2 - 5 templars or collect flags, you do 
 it, and he give you a information. The game have other things like view points (climb a building 
 and see the area to update your map) and save citizen (save a people of aggressive guards) and kill 
 60 templars, who are hided in 5 maps.
  
  If you're a player who just want death, combat and blood, don't buy this game, because in this 
 game, have time to fight, and time to hide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewshen
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  "Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, 
 totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae 
 dicta sunt explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, 
 sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque porro quisquam 
 est, qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sed quia non numquam eius 
 modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim ad minima 
 veniam, quis nostrum exercitationem ullam corporis suscipit laboriosam, nisi ut aliquid ex ea commodi 
 consequatur? Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit qui in ea voluptate velit esse quam nihil molestiae 
 consequatur, vel illum qui dolorem eum fugiat quo voluptas nulla pariatur?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmaster72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game and a must play for many. It has wonderful graphics a fairly easy going story 
 line that can be highly addicting. My only complaints were that the ending was predictable, too 
 much loading, and what is with the flags. If they make a game like that I'd think it would be less 
 enjoyable if 100 acheivement points weren't getting flags for gaming perfectionist and they atleast 
 should be on your map other wise good luck with the near impossible finding 100 flags in a huge 
 city. But overall ignoring the flags this is an awesome game and a must play! For anyone out there 
 looking for a great game try this one, unless of course you want to play just for acheivments then 
 enjoy spending many, many hours searching for the flags. Just to make the review long enough here 
 is a hint of your next game to buy assassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's 
 creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's 
 creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's 
 creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's 
 creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's 
 creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's creedassassin's 
 creedassassin's creed One more thing unless you want all the flags don't expect a long game because 
 I beat it in a week, true it still took like 25 hours but still ONE WEEK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanhedden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game. i loved everything about this game, from the beginning to like 5 seconds before 
 it ended. the gameplay was awesome. the cities and the views and the scenery was excellent. i think 
 i found like one glitch in the whole game. the fighting was cool and almost gory, the whole game 
 felt really real. it was long enough to make it worth playing, finding all the flags and hidden 
 templars and trying for all the gamer points was and not too repetitive. frame rate was really good, 
 the mapping was smooth and the way the whole game was put together was really cool. all the way 
 up until the end. now i am not going to spoil it for people who havent finished yet, but it made 
 me want to throw my effing controller through my tv. i mean all that playing time for the ending 
 i got? no clincher? no "this is why everything you did got done"? i know this game is supposed 
 to start a trilogy but do i have to suffer for five years until the other two come out to get some 
 closure on this thing? youre killing me ubisoft, f-ing killing me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redwarrior_85
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  In short - Assassin's Creed is one of those games which could have been a masterpiece; however 
 it fails to cut the grade in fundamental areas such as general game play design and enemy AI; it 
 does however compensate with groundbreaking graphics and fantastic level design.
  
  Assassin's Creed, for the majority of the game has you play as Altar, a member of an order of 
 assassins whose mission is to sustain peace and political stability in the 12th century holy land, 
 early on in the game Altar is given the opportunity to redeem his rank which was stripped from 
 him by the order.
  The story however has a somewhat original twist as what you are playing is not as it seems, ultimately 
 you are viewing a digital projection of Altar's memory through Desmond, a descendant of Altar 
 who has been kidnapped and held captive in a research institute in the near future, the scientists 
 here have developed a technique of extracting an ancestors memory through DNA code and using a 
 machine called the Animus to re-live those past memories, giving the game a somewhat "Matrix" style 
 scenario.
  Ultimately the story revolves around the scientists attempting to extract certain lost knowledge 
 from Desmond's memory, all in all the story works well, it has some great ideas and it without 
 doubt leaves room to be expanded on in upcoming sequels.
  
  The game play has some fascinating and fresh elements, the style can only be described as a mix 
 between Prince of Persia, Thief and Tony Hawks.
  The game is set predominantly within three 12th century cities; these being Jerusalem, Damascus 
 and Acre, all are enormous fantastically realised environments with beautiful breath taking graphics; 
 in reality they are probably some of the best to date on the 360, this is coupled with first class 
 building design and minute consideration to graphical detail which really brings the city to life, 
 I could easily find myself just sitting for minutes at a time enjoying the view from the top of 
 a colossal building towering over the city below and appreciating all the little details, a truly 
 unforgettable experience.
  Each city is inspired by different styles of architecture and culture, Acre being very European 
 influenced and Damascus and Jerusalem being of more middle eastern design, each city has its own 
 individual personality from the clothes worn by the inhabitants to the sounds and colours. It is 
 evident a lot of time has been put into creating a convincing and historically accurate experience, 
 and it pays off as you are utterly drawn into your surroundings.
  The design and layout of the city streets feels very natural, nothing seems placed there for the 
 sake of it; everything seems to merge into an elaborate array of large market places, narrow side 
 streets and open roof tops, all of which are fully accessible, in fact there is little in the cities 
 which cannot be interacted with in some way.
  
  The sounds are used well to establish a believable atmosphere, a limited musical score is provided, 
 but what there is fits flawlessly in with the mood of the city. The game strives on its ambient 
 sounds such as bells ringing, market hustle and bustle, conversation between citizens and preachers 
 giving religious lectures, all this adds to the immense and engrossing experience which is a pleasure 
 for eyes and ears. My only grievance is that I did find that certain sounds were repeated far too 
 often and ended up getting exceedingly tedious after a while, for example stall owners shouting 
 "How dare you steal in my presence! That will cost you your life!" I must have heard at least 500 
 times throughout the game as the same sound is used in each major city, sometimes with a slight 
 variation of accent.
  
  The voice acting is mostly of a good standard, albeit slightly miscast on occasions, for example 
 the main character who is supposed to be middle eastern in origin, sounds more like Sylvester Stallone 
 which does detract from whole theme of the game and is a somewhat lacklustre performance, however 
 overall it is an issue most people will overlook, nevertheless it didn't stop me from considering 
 the possibility the ending of the game would have me riding a horse into the sunset waving stars 
 and stripes high shouting "yippie kay ye".
  
  The game play itself tries to incorporate many different styles, ultimately its objective is stealth, 
 however intense sword fights with guards and wild chases across roof tops are common.
  Regrettably the stealth aspects in the game are comparatively weak to games such as thief as the 
 programming of the enemy intelligence suffers some major faults which do impede the player's ability 
 to realistically remain incognito.
  The most infuriating aspect of the stealth system is that the numerous guards around the cities 
 are constantly under suspicion of you, even if you are not committing a crime they will not squander 
 a second decapitating you for looking in their general direction for a fraction of a second, meaning 
 there is forever a feeling of being singled out which makes the stealth system to some extent too 
 sensitive for its own good; game play can become very wearisome at times especially when trying 
 to remain inconspicuous when all of a sudden you have a legion of armed crusaders on your backside 
 for walking faster than 5 kph, it is safe to say this aspect of the game is not balanced sufficiently, 
 which is astonishing seen as the game is primarily based around stealth.
  Evading guards is a large part of the game, this is controlled by an icon in the top left of the 
 screen indicating your status, red if you've blown your cover, orange if you're under suspicion 
 or blue if you're safe.
  When you have alerted guards your only option is to break their line of sight with Altair, when 
 the line of sight is broken the icon will turn to orange, you now have the opportunity of hiding 
 in something, this is unavoidable, don't expect you can run round incessantly in an attempt to 
 lose them, you can conceal yourself in hay stacks, rooftop gardens or amongst priests, this system 
 works well enough, however the guards constantly manage to track you back to your hiding place 
 in spite of of how far you run and then persist to stand there dumb struck wondering where you've 
 vanished when there is only one feasible place you could be, this adds to the sense of unrealism 
 in the stealth aspects; additionally after around 5 seconds you are permitted to leave your hiding 
 spot regardless of whether your pursuers are still close by or not, bizarrely enough they seem 
 not to become aware of you, or suddenly come down with a bad case of amnesia, as they let you walk 
 on by as if nothing is wrong; this is unrealistic as you are the only man parading round with a 
 hooded white cloak, numerous edged weapons and a large red cross one your back, you may as well 
 march around with a flashing neon sign saying "I'm an assassin" as the guards wouldn't seem to 
 notice or be bothered.
  
  Rooftop running is doubtless the best aspect of the game, it's a sense of freedom rarely seen in 
 games, there are very few limitations to what you can hang onto and climb, the dynamics of it never 
 fail to astound, even the guards follow you with the same agility which really does add to the 
 intensity, a game based just on this would be an accomplishment in itself.
  Overall free running offers an elegant mix of Prince of Persia acrobatics and Parkour which feels 
 fluid to control and each manoeuvre is smoothly executed whether it is running, jumping, shimmying, 
 hopping or falling 6 floors to your doom.
  
  The only grievance I have at the free running aspects is occasionally the actions feel a bit controlled, 
 in the sense that it can seem as if you're just pointing Altar in a general direction and the 
 game deals with everything else i. e. the direction of certain jump or whether Altar hangs on to 
 a ledge or not, needless to say sometimes its hard to get him to perform exactly what you wish.
 
  
  Combat in Assassin's Creed is for the most part awfully unbalanced; given the opportunity I believe 
 you could easily defeat 1000 enemy guards and emerge the champion, this is largely down to 2 things, 
 firstly enemy's will stand by and watch while you are slicing their comrades to pieces, secondly 
 the "counter" manoeuvre; this is all you will ever need, basically press this as a enemy is attacking 
 and it will automatically initiate a scripted sequence where you kill them in some ghastly way, 
 this takes all challenge away from the game and you will barely ever use your regular attack.
 
  On a good note the combat is dynamic and exciting; you will soon find the enemy completely surrounding 
 you in a circle and being poked from every direction, each attack looks and feels real, as does 
 the movement of the enemies which is smooth and with great attention to detail. You can perform 
 a number of manoeuvres in combat, you can throw and enemy, which is great when on a high building 
 when you see them fall to their death just the hear the screams of the poor citizens below as they 
 are showered with entrails. This is the most effective and pleasurable killing method, but be wary, 
 they can toss you too and do so often.
  Throwing knifes are another addition to your arsenal, they are simple, crude and effective. However 
 I was sorely disappointed that auto-aim is used for targeting, the combat system would have significantly 
 benefited from having a crosshair for manual aim; moreover a bow and arrow wouldn't have gone amiss 
 and feels like a wasted opportunity.
  
  Lastly there is the hidden blade, this is small dagger used to make silent kills, predominantly 
 for assassinations; however I still found myself preferring the sword for most situations.
  
  The actual game play is very straightforward, you're assigned a target to assassinate and you 
 have to acquire certain intelligence that will assist in locating them, sounds good? Sounds interesting? 
 I'm afraid not. This is the main downfall of the game and is why I personally believe the game 
 fails to impresses beyond certain level.
  The information you acquire is done in 4 ways, eavesdrop, find an informer, pickpocket or interrogate, 
 that's it. This is repeated each time, for every assassination in the game. Each time you take 
 on an investigation there is little or no differentiation other than a slight variation in location, 
 the entire game is formed on this basis, and not only is it monotonous, it is sloppy design and 
 could have been expanded upon a vast amount more, idyllically it should have been an open ended 
 investigation with lots of variation and freedom, however what you get is a dumbed-down shopping 
 list of prescribed objectives which gives a very old school feel. Every single investigation is 
 located on your map leaving little or no exploring, it's in essence like going for a stroll in 
 a playground, it seriously feels
  like the developers have taken away the challenge for the sake of the younger generation who want 
 to get all the fannying about out the way as fast as possible and run in blade blazing for the 
 assassination, which I may add only lasts a few seconds.
  The actual assassination consists of listening to a guy preach for a few minutes before having 
 to pursue him and kill him while dealing with around 30 guards at the same time, its like you are 
 some fanatical 12th century hooded Rambo with no clemency; perhaps you CAN silently take the target 
 out, but I sure didn't do that, and under no circumstances felt obligated to do so, it was much 
 easier to run in an kill everything in sight, which subsequently eliminates the whole purpose of 
 the game.
  
  Another aspect of the game play which annoys me is view points, these are essentially platforms 
 on top of elevated building which when climbed upon provide you with a panoramic view of the city, 
 uncovering the "fog of war", please Ubisoft, this is not command and conquer, this is a next generation 
 game set in a 12th century city. The rationale, along with pissing you off, is that it uncovers 
 more investigation locations. This is where I lost it. You're telling me this guy can scale a 500ft 
 building and spot a guy who has some significant information in his pocket? Or two guys in discussion 
 about your target? This is so inexcusable I feel like chewing my left arm off and trouncing the 
 Ubisoft development team to death with it. And not only is there that to piss you off, yet again 
 they feel the need to make you do this 200+ times in the game. Yes the city looks incredible as 
 your climbing it, but hell does it get tiresome after the 20th time.
  
  There are a number of optional objectives which the player can undertake; the main one being collecting 
 flags. Flags are randomly scattered within cities and the roads between them. Basically there are 
 a number of flags for each "faction" so to speak, for example you may need to collect 100 "crusader" 
 flags to complete the collection.
  I personally couldn't see the need or find the motivation to do this as it feels like a cheap bolt 
 on in order to extent the already meagre depth of the game play.
  
  Assassin's Creed has little or no reply value, I personally could not reply all those dreary investigations, 
 the only reason I would ever go back to the game would be to refresh my memory of the story for 
 when Assassin's Creed 2 is released.
  
  In conclusion
  
  Assassin's Creed demonstrates impressive and revolutionary graphics along with pain-staking environmental 
 design, it's genuinely a pleasure to look at and explore plus incorporates a great deal of historical 
 precision and for these reasons can be looked upon as a great achievement; however the lack of 
 game play design, poor AI programming and numerous repetitious aspects guarantee you will give 
 up on the game through sheer boredom or annoyance and regrettably drag the rest of the game down 
 with it.
  
  graphics 9/10
  sound 8/10
  gameplay 4/10
  story 7/10
  replayability 4/10
  lasting value 5/10
  
  OVERALL - 6.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteGamer34
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games for the Xbox 360. It is a uique game in both the controls and its genre. 
 Have you ever seen a game where you are an assassin in such diverse, well created world? No, you 
 haven't. The graphics are some of the best you will ever see, it is almost impossible to make them 
 more realisic. The control sheme is one of a kind. You have the ability to decide whether to make 
 an quite assassination or to run up and slit a guys throat. You have the ability to climb buildigs 
 and you feel as if you were right there. The games storyline is great and you never know what will 
 happen next. The only flaw is that the ending is terrible and leaves you hanging, but thats fogivable 
 considering how well the overall game was ans that its the first game of a series so there is much 
 more to come. Personally i cannot wait for the rest of the series to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  When i read the reviews I thought this game was about Graphics but with bad gameplay and story 
 ! , But i went and bought it anyway to see what its realy about .
  When I started the game i got into this boring traning in a digital world , it was very easy though 
 and then i started the game. In the begining of the story i have all the weapons all the experince 
 and they give you some good couple of fights .
  then you start the travling from city to anathor and getting info ,helping people and doing some 
 as*kickin assasinations ! 
  Meanwhile your in an amazing story between the modern world and the hisory , trying to figur out 
 whos the real enemy !.
  
  
  Presentation:.
  
  Graphics:.
  
  Gameplay:.
  
  Overall:.
  
  bahaa300 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  The story with the game grabs you and sucks you in. You cannot wait for the next game to come out 
 so that the story can continue. I don't want to spoil the story, so I will say that it is Historical 
 Fiction with a touch of Sci-Fi set in an alternate reality with the modern setting differing some 
 from current world events as we know them. It pits the Assassins against the Templars. I won't 
 say anything more than that.
  
  To fully experience the story, you must screw around when you are outside of the animus in the 
 present day as well as when you are actually in the animus. If you don't , you will miss out on 
 much of the story. Take your time, there are little secrets and things in the present day setting.
 
  
  It is true that Assassin's Creed contains repetitive gameplay. Fortuneatly, you do not have to 
 experience the repetitiveness if you do not wish to. There is fast travel after you defeat the 
 first assassination target, so that you may skip the kingdom. You also only have to perform 2 or 
 3 investigations and can completely ignore the citizens that need help. Further, you only need 
 to climb to the top of one view point to find all of the investigations. I chose to do all of these 
 things, missing out only on collecting all the flags and killing all the templars. Your mileage 
 may vary.
  
  All in all a GREAT game because of the story. I would have given it a 10/10 if the repetitiveness 
 would have been toned down some, or if more interaction with shop keepers and beggars were possible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Well you play as Altair is a Assassin's that he able too be well hidden, quiet from behind with 
 your hidden blade, Quickly too attack anyone. Well you go back in the past in 1191AD which lead 
 you too new world of truth about the history of you ancestors. In the future you play as Miles 
 who's was taken to be use the Animus a machine that can able too take you in the Past. This game 
 has a lot of twist and turn once you play through out the game.
  
  Well the game is wonderful made the graphics really great too look at. This shows the game how 
 great it is with the characters emotions, expressions and how they feel if you push or bump into 
 them. The game can be repetitive in most part of the game, sometimes it can be quite long to finished 
 the side quests. In the beginning of the game most of the Bosses are quite easy too beat once you 
 progress through out the game in can be harder too beat. But this game has a lot of action, fun 
 and takes you into the depth of the story. The voice acting is also another great one in the game. 
 Once you progress through the game you will have more health bar, more attacks and blocking as 
 well. Also if you able too save citizens and climb the view points you can able to received the 
 more health bars. The achievements are easy and takes time to get. The flags are quite hard to 
 get and it's get boring after a while. The music of the game is good as well and the story-line 
 is quite good too. But once you beaten the game it will give you a cliff-hanger so it's difficult 
 to understand the ending. 
  
  So far we have too wait for the second game too come out so be patient everyone soon we find out 
 the meaning of the puzzle the awaits us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassans Creed has made me wonder about the sequal, and prequal coming out on the DS in Febuary 
 because of its very mysterious ending and what will be DS version be about? This game can make 
 you feel like you are living in a whole new world as an assassan that fights for justice. The world 
 that you play in hypnotizes you into thinking that your that assassan. You play the game as an 
 ancestor known to the real main character in the stroy named Altair, an assassan that works for 
 only justice and peace to the whole world. Go out to the vast kingdoms to find its mavailant leaders 
 and assassanate them one by one but thats not all you can do. You can also do side missions to 
 fill up your DNA bar such as evesdropping, pickpocketing, saving citizens, and more to be discussed.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay might be a little complicated but it contains a tutorial that shows you 
 all controls and what to do before going out to the real verteral world. You play as an assassan 
 named Altair that is assinged different leaders to assassanate to regain your reputation with the 
 Creed. With each assasantion you gain a new ability. If you dont know what it is because you cant 
 read the text well theres no need to worry because you can find another tutorial to practice your 
 new skill. Assassnating isnt all that you do in the game. There are other side missions you can 
 do before going to the main target. You must do three investigations to find your target by  
 targets for information, and evesdropping. If you want to fill those two extra light blue strands 
 of DNA then you must save all citizens and veiw all look out points in that area. This is not a 
 hint you will find out once you save your first citizen or look around on your first veiw point. 
 The fighting is intense and bloody which is just right for the awsome action from saving a citizen 
 or assassanting. You can dodge, grab, or counter attack a target which brings you into a short clip 
 showing you killing it which is very exciting! Another ability is throwing knives and the funny 
 part is the target doesnt knowtice so its like a stealth attack. Last is the weapondry that you 
 own. With your D-pad you can choose a dagger/throwing knives, sword, assassans blade, or you could 
 just use your fists if you want. The most fun out of the gameplay is freedom in the enviroment 
 and the ability to climb any building you want anywhere.
  
  Graphics, Sound/Music: The graphics of this game can grow on you during the game play. Sometimes 
 it just makes you feel like your watching a movie. The music is the just right for the slow parts 
 and the action scenes
  so you can have the feeling of escaping and planning your kill.
  
  STORY: If you can take the story then theres no problem because there can be alot of talk scenes 
 but they are short so dont worry. The thing that will make you wonder the most is the ending which 
 is very mysterious when the main character gains an ability to see the future. This just might 
 lead the game into a sequal coming out in the future.
  
  Assassans Creed has earned a 9.5 with the gameplay at its highest and its worth buying for your 
 gaming experience. This is one of Ubisofts most popular game in the market today so dont be afraid 
 to go for it.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Gamerreveiwer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I was absolutely hyped for this title after E3 '07, so I came into this game with high expectations. 
 I left with all of them satisfied. As soon as you start the game you realize that everything is 
 not as you thought it would be. I don't want to spoil it for you, so I'll just say that the game 
 doesn't just take place in the past. But anyway, about the game. You start off as an assassin who 
 has been stripped of his rank and weapons because of a "mistake" he made, and he is forced to earn 
 them back. To do this you must eliminate (assassinate) 9 targets. The 9 targets are spread throughout 
 3 cities, Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem. When you arrive in each city you must first complete several 
 investigations before you assassinate your target. These range from pickpockets, eavesdropping, 
 interrogation, and informers, whom you must complete a specific task for before they give you an 
 important piece of information. But what makes Assassin's Creed great is that you can do this in 
 anyway you want. It's not exactly "open-world", but you can do whatever investigations you want 
 and in what order. Unfortunately there isn't much diversity in the investigations which can make 
 the game repetitive, but not to the point where you can't play anymore. After you have completed 
 at least 3 investigations, you than must eliminate your target. You targets are usually within 
 heavily-armed fortresses or palaces. Therefore, you must find anyway in possible. You could climb 
 up the walls, then make your way down and assassinate the target. Or you could run straight at 
 him. There are many different possibilities. After every assassination you get another weapon or 
 ability restored. After each assassination the guards generally seem to notice you more and are 
 more suspicious of you. You have to be very careful near the end of the game. The controls are 
 mostly fantastic. The platforming controls are seamless and easy to learn, and you can climb any 
 building you see. The fighting is also well designed. You can't just run in and start mashing buttons, 
 especially in the larger conflicts. You will have to block and make use of counter attacks. There 
 were however a few times when the controls were making me climb up a building or ladder that I 
 didn't want to go up. This especially seems to happen in the midst of the chases, which can really 
 screw you up. Other than that though, the controls are fine. The graphics also shine. The world 
 is incredibly detailed and gives you a good sense of how epic the game really is. However, there 
 don't seem to be many different character models, but that is understandable, because of how crowded 
 the streets are. The animations are also fantastic. The sound is amazing. The voice acting is incredibly 
 well-done, as is the music, which also adds to the epicness of the game. 
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is a very good game that exceeds in all areas of play. It raises a new 
 bar in story telling, and will be remembered for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I finsihed AC over the weekend and all I can say is "GREAT GAME!". I thought Mass Effect was going 
 to be my big game of the last few months but wow.... AC just blows that game away. As I was playing 
 AC I kept thinkingthis is almost a Grand Theft Auto" of sword play, stalking and assassinating. 
 While the obvious point might be made that all you do is go around and kill people, there are just 
 so many ways to do so. I one mission you might have to "case" your target and eliminate all the 
 guards before going in to make the hit. I others, a more direct approach might just work. Regardless, 
 the amount of exploring you can do in each of the three cities you can visit is astounding. All 
 I can say is ( and this is according to the ending) bring on the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirelingT7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  A long awaited game on the gamers market and all the high expectations 
  Were right to have, it doesn't disappoint at all.
  I can say with no doubt that this is the most 
 beautiful game there is, with off course a few glitches and flaws but that is easy to over look 
 when killing a big fat guard because he is hitting a woman.
  The interesting part is that when there is a movie you don't lose control of the environment
 
  You can freely move around the scene that is playing, a good and new addition to action adventure 
 games. The only disappointing thing is that the chasings aren't that tough as they said and the 
 game is actually more about working to get you current rank back in the assassins group and the 
 game is repeating and repeating with the murder's you need to commit.
  But after you finished the game you can use eagle vision outside the memory machine (so as I call 
 it) and then you will see everywhere strange markings in a different langue, so that will make 
 you very curious for what they mean and a top of that there will be two more games said so. So 
 with that in the back of your mind you will forget about all the glitches. 
  i maybe played less than 10 hours but i played 24/7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  When you first buy Assassin's Creed you know the games gonna be great depending on the reviews 
 you watched or read and the overall assassin type gameplay, that Hitman intrduced to the world, 
 seems almost as if the game has a no dissapointment gurentee on the cover. Well, it has that same 
 gurentee, but in somewhat different way.
  Now lets start from the beganning. Assassin's Creed is primarly about you redeeming youeself after 
 someting goes wrong on your very first mission. You have to kill your targets like a novice assassin 
 by collecting your on information. The games mechanics by that I mean collecting info seems soild 
 and it really is never that hard to find where you can actually collect info. Well, to collect 
 info you have to go to a view point like a tall building or Chapel, it's kind of easy and never 
 really gets repetitive even though you have to do it throughout the game. Now to climb buildings 
 you have to know the controles, which in my opinion, once you get the hang of them they are amazing 
 and probley the best this year. You of course have to take down your target once you reqiure enough 
 information and that too is a thrilling expirence. First you seek out a proper postion to watch 
 your target, there will be a "cutscene" if you even want to call it that, that displays pratically 
 why your killing him. They all do evil things right in front of you. He runs of and a short distance 
 away and then that's when you take him down anyway you want. That right there is one of the thrilling 
 expirence's that are around everyturn in Assassin's Creed, the freedom is amazing and the size 
 of all of the three cities is huge and the Kngdom (HUB to get to the cities) is up there almost to 
 oblivion. It is a big game.
  Now, there are some minor issues with Assassin's Creed, like, the traing isn't skipable and goes 
 on for a long while, there are small visual glitches, but they don't last more than a second, the 
 first two missions you have to go through the the Kingdom which is somewhat of a pain because it 
 is so big, later you can fast travel. But, that's about it the game is amzing the controles one 
 of the best and the story is powerful and hold you in until the end. There is nothing lackluster 
 about this game. If your into Hitman, Prince of Persia, even the Spider-Man game, lol, then deffiently 
 pick it up. You won't regret it all and you will not easily forget Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed had so much hype and was so anticipated that I wasn't ready for what I got when 
 I bought this game. This is an example of a game that I purchased on hype alone. I have noticed 
 the broad dichotomy of review scores, with many hovering in the 9 range and many hovering in the 
 6 range. To those familiar with Major Nelson and his podcast, e astutely pointed out that those 
 who favored the game were really playing it as a true Assassin, while those who didn't enjoy it 
 so much played it as an action title. I did my best to play like a true Assassin, completing a 
 vast majority of the achievements and doing my best to actually assassinate each target. In the 
 end, it was quite a letdown save for the fairly simple achievements.
  
  Good: Technical graphics. The Holy Land looks stellar, but the sequences in the laboratory are 
 fairly weak and plain. Story. Overall story progression is pretty good, it is above average to 
 say the least. Battle system (cinematics) . The battle system is flawed, but the cinematic sequences 
 in which you achieve a combo kill or a counter kill are well done and look quite impressive. Voice 
 Acting. Not the best of the year by any means, but the voice acting is certainly above average 
 and never really gets annoying. Altair is especially good and really could have been a deal breaker 
 if done improperly.
  
  Bad: Battle system (technical) . This game has extremely boring and repetitive combat. You literally 
 fight with one button (X) and there are no combos or moves to learn. You start the game by mashing 
 X and you end the game by mashing X. The sound effects are not very good in this game, each sword 
 swing makes me feel like I'm playing with a butter knife. The actual gameplay is the worst offender, 
 becoming repetitive after just an hour or two. You do the same few actions over and over: interrogation 
 (mash X to beat someone senseless and get information from them) , pickpocketing (press B at any 
 point while they are walking near you) , eavesdropping (press Y when you are sitting on a bench) , 
 climbing high points, and assassinating a target. You repeat this procedure 9 times and by the 
 2nd or 3rd time it feels incredibly stale.
  
  Verdict: I highly encourage a rental of this game! I have not reviewed a game in recent memory 
 that has had such appeal to certain gamers and has bored so many others senseless. I recommend 
 it as a rental, but no more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzyplyr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the perfect game if you like fun, exciting, bloody, and energetic games. The 
 game is full of surprising things that will keep you hooked for years and years. First, Assassin's 
 Creed has such realistic CPUs that will always react differently towards all you moves, just like 
 life. Also, the game has a massive, beautiful, and lively world. Almost every inch of the world 
 is "playable" 
  
  This game is full of many different people that react towards you differently. First, the game 
 has tough, mean looking guys that have a very short temper. With these guys, you could pick-pocket 
 them and take their knives. Also, you can mess around with them and get into a fist fight. While 
 your in the fist fight, if you take out your sword or daggers, they panic and call the guards. 
 Next, the game has extremely annoying beggars who pester you for a couple minutes. Finally, you 
 have your average people who always panic if you act "dangerous".
  
  Also, the massive world of Assassin's Creed is mostly "playable". In this world, you could do many 
 things including: killing guards (or people) , climbing buildings (or using ladders) , running on rooftops, 
 leaping off builds, and a whole lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrt5pitt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Way too repetitive. You preform the same tasks over... and over... and over. All you really have 
 to do to get a feel for the entire game is climb a tower, stealth kill someone, save a civilian, 
 listen to conversations, and pick-pocket. Do these tasks about a thousand times and thats it. It 
 gets old after a while and pretty soon the graphics get old and the only thing that keeps you going 
 is the storyline. I was a real fan of the 2 Prince of Persia games on the original X-box especially 
 the second one. I was hoping assassin's creed would resemble the 2nd of this series closer but 
 it did not. No combos for combat no real puzzles as far as climbing or progressing. Graphics are 
 not everything exiting game play is important though and the creed lacks it. It is so easy to kill 
 your opponents and basically requires no skill. Progressing through the game also requires little 
 thought or problem solving.
  
  Bottom line... this game could be better don't buy it rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Tizzle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed on the Xbox 360 is a great game. The game mixes stealth and action with great 
 freerunning gameplay and an open environment modeled on 12th Century Jerusalem. 
  
  There hasn't been another game quite like Assassin's creed, with an emmersive story and a good 
 combat system the game is well worth the wait. The graphics in Assassin's Creed are immense, from 
 the first city (Damascus) you visit and the cinematic views you get on top of the games many 100 
 ft high view points (used to orientate the map,) the artistic design and textures all look authentic 
 and seemless. Parkour routes embedded within the city are also a worthy mention, as they fit into 
 the city perfectly and don't feel forced just to add free running to the gameplay.
  
  The Creed who you belong to will have you Assassinate nine figureheads based on real Historic Figures 
 from the Third crusade and will provide the main 'missions' in the game. The gameplay can get a 
 little derivative with all the side missions you must complete before the main assassination (they 
 grow really tedious if your going for 100% completion) but the Assassinations themselves all vary 
 and are all equally unique gameplay experiences. The fighting and combat both work really well 
 in Assassin's creed and the death animations are awesome.
  
  I managed to get my copy of Assassin's creed in the Sale for 35, and i have to say i might be 
 begrudged to have paid full price on release for this game. In terms of longevity, 1 or 2 playthroughs 
 will get you all the achievements and then it will be a shelf filler. This isn't to say it wasn't 
 long though as the main story might take you 8-10 hours depending on how many of the sidequests 
 you do and the collection of all the flags for achievements will take alot longer. 
  
  The game sounds great with a good voice acting cast that are believable and avoid 'cheese' lines 
 which could have ruined this game. The script serves the story well and it's emmersive plot is 
 a real head game! Assassin's creed is definitely worth playing, especially if you can find it preowned 
 or on a budget and is one of the best games to come out of a fantastic year for gaming (2007.)
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Sound: 9/10 
  
  Value: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the few who, when they first saw this game, thought it was going to be an awesome 
 experiance. Soon did i realize that the game has no depth.
  
  The gameplay in this game so not take ANY skill what-so-ever. You find yourself doing the same 
 repetitive tasks over and over again. Such as beat up some dude for information or watch two people 
 talk as you sit on a bench. This wouldn't be bad if they didn't make you do it ALL THE TIME! You'll 
 also find yourself doing such tasks as; climbing on top of a high build 60 times (which you do 
 by holding down a trigger and running towards a wall) , saving the same citizens 60 times or more 
 (which they give you the same reward all the time... which doesn't even help you) , and... the biggest 
 kick to the balls... riding on a horse everywhere! (take my word for it... this part sucks the 
 most... but atleast you only have to do it 3 times) .
  
  But don't get me wrong, there is one good part in assassin's creed, and that is the assassinations 
 themselves. Often times you'll find you self in hot pursuit of the target as you'll most likely 
 blow your cover, and catching the target is a rush... the sad thing is that once you kill him your 
 being chased by 10-20 other guards. Now you could out run them, or you could just hold down a trigger 
 and just press X all the time until you end up killing them all (I'm serious, I've tried it and 
 it works.)
  
  The story is also lackluster, I won't go into too much here but it's pretty boring.
  
  To conclude, 
 I would recommending NOT buying this game. If you must, rent it first as I would hate to see someone 
 waste their money on this fowl game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of preconceived notions of what Assassin's Creed was going to be like and I have to 
 admit, I wasn't expecting to like the game all that much. Stealth is not my thing and I'm not a 
 fan of spending long periods of time in the shadows waiting for the precise moment to strike. Luckily 
 for me, Assassin's Creed does not pigeon-hole the player into playing in any specific way, instead 
 leaving the gameplay open to allow you to play any way you like.
  
  This meant that I could run around the rooftops of the cities, throwing knives and executing guards, 
 sending them crashing down to the street below, which illicted a grin-inducing cry from the crowd 
 when the body hit the street. In the beginning I was trying to melt in the crowd but it wasn't 
 long before I was running and jumping where ever I wanted. Stealth takes too much time and I appreciated 
 the fact that the gamer isn't forced to overindulge in stealth mechanics. 
  
  There are a number of strengths to this game starting with the obvious - the graphic design and 
 the scope of the cities is truly amazing. The game looks fantastic and the world is large, encompassing 
 3 large cities, 2 smaller cities and a kingdom (made up of intersecting paths) in-between. Each 
 large city is broken up into 3 sections and these sections are opened up as you play through the 
 game.
  
  A second key strength is the mobility you are given to explore these areas. No doubt about it, 
 the best part of the game is jumping and climbing from rooftop to rooftop across the cities. Only 
 a handful of times did I lose control of Altair, the movement is seemless and exhilirating, especially 
 when you're dashing across roofs running for your life. Also well done is the horse riding through 
 the kingdom.
  
  Combat is better than I anticipated, having heard that it was a bit of a button masher. It is, 
 but it's varied enough to make it fun and keep it interesting. The use of counter moves was particularly 
 well done. When pulled off correctly Altair launches into a brief cinematic killing of the offending 
 guard, complete with an satisfying crunch (you can hear the sound effects guys having a great time 
 sinking swords into all sorts of vegetables) .
  
  You also have an assortment of weapons to choose from - long sword, throwing knives, short sword 
 and your hidden blade used for assassinations (which always involve a little cinematic also) . 
 
  
  The main complaint you hear about Assassin's Creed is repitition. I think this complaint is way 
 overblown since it seems to be the biggest reason other reviewers are knocking points off of their 
 scores. Is there repitition? Yes. Is it the mind-numbing kind where you want to leave the game 
 and never return to it because you are so bored? No. 
  
  You have a number of assassinations to complete to finish the game and each one requires you gather 
 information before you can attempt the assassination. Pick a pocket for a map, eavesdrop on a conversation 
 for info, interogate someone or cutivate an informer... either way you have to go through these 
 steps. Does it get old? A little... but it really doesn't take much time and I found I could get 
 them done while climbing highpoints and saving citizens (which also gets a little old after awhile) . 
 
  
  But never did I find myself not playing the game because I wasn't looking forward to the chore 
 work. True chore work would be trying to get the achievements for killing every Templar Knight 
 (100 of them) or collecting every flag (way too time consuming to even try to attempt - just not 
 worth it) .
  
  The other complaint I heard was that the story was too confusing. It was a pretty crazy story and 
 I have to admit I didn't get everything that was going on, but it was interesting and after awhile 
 things began to make more sense. I give the writer's credit for trying something different and 
 laying a pretty good foundation for where the games could go in the future if they continue the 
 series. 
  
  If they do make a sequel there are many directions they could go. While I immensely enjoyed running 
 around the Crusades-era Middle East, I would love to see this series take on different time periods... 
 Japanese Samaurais? Roman Legions? Egyptian Pharoahs? Dickinson's London? There alot of possibilities. 
 
  
  To sum up, Assassin's Creed is a breath of fresh air in gaming. It takes on a number of ambitious 
 design choices and succeeds at most of them. It's to the credit of the development staff - you 
 can see alot of hard work put into this game. You don't need to be a stealth fan to enjoy this 
 one... put on your cloak and secure that hidden blade, there is history to be changed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Now everybody has probably heard something about this game or actually played this game. That being 
 said I have mixed feelings on it. The first thing you notice about this game is the graphics. The 
 game looks and feels fantastic. You really see the power of the xbox 360 when you see the richness 
 and the scaling of the cities. The amounts of people roaming the streets show the time and effort 
 put into making this game. Now that I have mentioned the best thing about this game on to the negative. 
 How could so much time be spent on making a game look wonderful and not a lot of time sepnt on 
 actual gameplay is beyond me. You play an "assassin" so to speak in the middle ages. The game though 
 starts out in current or future time and you are in a room with 2 people. You talk to them and 
 then you sit down and you are transported to the middles age. You are then given people to assassinate. 
 But in order to assassinate them you have to get info. The info in attained through a few ways. 
 You can pick pocket someone, interrogate them (beat them up) , eavedrop, and the usual wonderful 
 informant. The informant missions so to speak normally entail running around getting flags or assassinating 
 various people with a time limit. Those missions end up being loads of fun especially when you 
 are trying to assassanite five targets in a crowded area with guards all over the place. You can 
 see where I am going with this. Also there is a side missions where you climb to the top of missions 
 and check out the area and you can also save citizens. Yes people you get to do this a grand total 
 of SIX or more times over and over again. They do not change it up or anything. You do the same 
 missions over and over again and that tends to be no fun at all. 
  Part of a game being fun is actually playing it and doing different things. When you are doing 
 the same things over and over again it kinda makes the game no fun. Combat is interesting in this 
 game in the sense that once you get the counter ability the fights become easier. Literally you 
 could be surrounded by 10 guys and they will attack you one at a time like a bruce lee movie. You 
 counter kill one then you wait for the other. Yeah fun fun. Then when you try to use stealth (which 
 is what they claim you can do in the game) you get pushed by some crazy guys who end up being all 
 over the place. Then you have to fight 10 guards and try to do the mission all over again. You 
 also have the beggar lady who folllows you everywhere annoying you. The game has the standard find 
 the flag things that will help you get 100% of the game but they tend to be tedious and boring. 
 When you get enough info to get to assassinate the guy you go to the next board. Then you sit and 
 wait as a long talking part is started. Then you try to use stealth and some crazy guy pushes you 
 and you have to fight 10 guys all over again. You just hack and slash and kill the guy and everybody 
 around him. Sounds like fun doesn't it?? Now lets talk about the control. You would think a game 
 where you are climbing and jumping that the control would be good. HAHA.. there will be time where 
 you will be literally hanging from a wall trying to climb up or fall down and you cannot. The jumping 
 system is horrible with no control there and when you fall in the water you die. This game is fun 
 for the first 30 or 45 mins but once you get a feel for it it kinda becomes boring. I am harsh 
 on this game because everybody is rating it a 9.0 and game of the year and when you play it you 
 are like what?? I had more fun playing crackdown which is not a very good game or harry potter. 
 
  I think a lot of time and effort was spent in making this game look wonderful and sounds decent. 
 Music is not too strong in this game. If only some of that time was spent on gameplay and making 
 it fun this game would have been much better. I am sure you have heard of the ending to this game 
 so lets just say its lame. The game just ENDS.. no ending nothing.. you kill a guy.. hear some 
 talking and then its over. You just walk around the room wondering is this it? Very poor ending 
 for a very poorly done game. Control is horrible climbing up and down and jumping around is poor. 
 This is sorry to say a very poor game that had a chance to be a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake4eva_92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a new and incredibly ambitious franchise developed by Ubisoft Montreal. The 
 games setting takes place during the 3rd Crusade in the year 1191 AD. You play Altar, a descendant 
 of Desmond Miles who has been kidnapped by a shady company under the name of Abstergo.
  
  The gameplay is a breath of fresh air from the generic shooters and button mashers plaguing our 
 systems today. It has depth yet is also simple when you have it down. You control Altar like a 
 puppeteer, the face buttons are all assigned to a specific limb. The Y button controls Altar's 
 head, and can be used to activate view points and eagle vision. X is Altar's main attack, which 
 initiates whichever weapon Altar has equipped, whether that be the Long sword, Short Sword/Throwing 
 Knives, wrist Blade or fists. B is the free hand, it is used to grab ledges while free running, 
 and to initiate a grab/counter grab while in combat mode. A, of course, controls Altar's feet; 
 this is used to dodge while in combat mode, to pray and blend with monks and to jump. The Left 
 Trigger controls Altar's intensity, holding it down makes Altar more aggressive, turning the 
 default walk into a jog or sprint *while holding A*, it is also used to block during fight mode. 
 Without going into to much depth, the controls are fairly simple when you grasp them and can be 
 used to great effect.
  
  The graphics are also spectacular, defining the over used term 'next gen'. Altar's animations 
 are very fluid *with over 1000 over them* as are those of NPC's. The textures are very high quality 
 and the characters clothes always blend perfectly with one another. I have had no such frame rate 
 issues or screen tearing for the length that I've had the game, and doubt I will. The environments 
 are also perfectly detailed, the 3 cities look incredible and are brimming with detail, and anything 
 sticking out more than 2 inches is instantly recognisable and can be climbed on.
  
  The sound in Assassin's Creed is also one of its assets. Jesper Kyde has done another amazing job 
 with the soundtrack to this game, fading beautifully between the games moods, whether it be high 
 alert just after an assassination, or walking peacefully through the vast Kingdom. The voice acting 
 is also professionally done; the characters all have believable accents, with the odd exception 
 of Altar himself, who sounds too American for an Arabian. All the miscellaneous sounds are also 
 believable, ranging from the satisfying clang of swords or the sounds or the silent thump as Altar 
 touches down. The atmosphere is spectacular, it should be a crime to use a custom soundtrack for 
 this game. The bells after an Assassination almost fill you with remorse, and the game world works 
 perfectly. People go about their business and even talk with one another, the atmosphere in this 
 game is un-rivalled.
  
  The story in Assassin's Creed is on par with that of blockbuster movies. The twists and conspiracies 
 will keep you guessing all the way through and leave the game at a large cliffhanger with hints 
 of a sequel. Assassin's Creed is not a game you will want to leave your collection anytime soon, 
 with an average of 12 hours for the main story and many more for earning all achievements and side 
 quests will keep the disc in your drive for many days.
  
  Perhaps the only slight draw back to this game is that it is too easy, Altair can take on a totally 
 unrealistic number of gaurds and walk away unscathed. Also, some investigation missions do get 
 repetitive, many of the same missions are repeated to investigate your 9 assassination targets, 
 and there aren't enough assassinations for a game so aptly named. They're all over way too quickly. 
 The game has a lot of untapped potential, which I hope to see used in a sequel.
  
  In conclusion, Assassin's Creed is a very respectable game that takes a well known genre in a new, 
 exciting direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  The first few hours in the game were a lot of fun! Climbing unto rooftops, jumping off towers, 
 killing bad guys, riding horses... great stuff. Eventually the game starts to become extremely repetitive. 
 Every assassination mission is pretty much identical. Get three investigations done and assassinate 
 the target. The only reason you keep playing is because you want to figure out the story. What 
 does Abstergo (the company holding Desmond) want? What is going to happen to Desmond? You get bits 
 and pieces, and finally the game ends with huge gaping questions. "Why the heck did I just play 
 this game?" is my question. The ending was very disappointing. You spend all that time just to 
 find out more of the story, and you are left with questions and no answers.
  
  Some Google searching revealed that Assassin's Creed is a Trilogy. Great! More repetitive tasks, 
 and no answers. Can't wait!
  
  If the crappy ending wouldn't bother you much then definitely get this game. It's fun to play although 
 I doubt it's replay value is any good. I have no intentions of ever playing that game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Visually, this game is stunning. You can tell that the game designers definitely had a vision when 
 they made this game.
  
  The game also starts to set up a big story. Though, I feel, and have cited in other reviews, that 
 in action games or first person shooters, the story is usually only as good as the gameplay.
  
  And, unfortunately, after a couple of missions, the gameplay feels tired, uninspired, and repetitive.
 
  
  All three of these things become painfully noticable, because of how long it takes to move from 
 city to city, and worse, how long it takes to move once you're in the city. It feels like it takes 
 forever to get from one objective to another, and outside of an occasional minigame of 'eavesdrop 
 on this" or "pickpocket that", which also become repetitive, there isn't enough to make the time 
 feel well spent. 
  
  While the environments are exceptionally large, and quite breathtaking at times, your ability to 
 interact with the environment is severely limited. It's open ended, in the sense that you can physically 
 explore the towns you enter, but it's not in the sense that you can't communicate with anyone along 
 the way, so nothing is providing any sense of personality, atmosphere, or interactivity to help 
 give weight to the scale of it all.
  
  Which makes the time it takes to get from one objective to another feel even longer than it should. 
 You can't interact with the environment at all, outside of doing repetitive miniquests, which the 
 gameplay forces you to slowly move through, which to me, makes all the space and scope feel useless, 
 and tiresome. 
  
  The action system, I feel, had potential. Unfortunately, outside of sneaking by yet another guard 
 unnoticed, or stopping yet another guard from interrogating yet another citizen, the need for an 
 elaborate action system feels unnecessary, except to make you snail crawl through a city that looks 
 and plays just like every other city you've visited. IN combat, things don't liven up that much 
 either, as you basically have a few attacks between all your weapons, and strategy never really 
 changes from foe to foe.
  
  The story is interesting, unfortunately, the environment and the gameplay don't do it any justice 
 at all. If the game had either settled on being a truly open ended game with an interactive environment, 
 or if it settled on being a straight ahead action game that focued more on objectives and combat, 
 I feel either would have served the story better. The first could have opened up the world to you, 
 making it feel more immersive, and the second would have made the story feel more immediate, and 
 intense. The fact that it was not really one or the other, yet tried to be both, compromised both 
 immersion and intensity, and made the story drag where it didn't need to, without offering any 
 significant reason for the amount of time it took to do even simple things.
  
  I thought it was just me, since so many people have liked this game, so I forced myself to play 
 through past the second memory block. After the forth, I kept telling myself that it was all building 
 toward something, so I forced myself to keep going, even though I wasn't really enjoying it. By 
 the end, the gameplay and travel became so tiresome and needlessly lengthy, and the world remained 
 as painfully uninteresting, that when the story finally did flesh out, I didn't really care anymore. 
 I finished only to prove to myself that I had given it a fair chance to be the game I hoped it 
 would become, that other people said it was.
  
  Which is too bad, because if as much thought was placed on the gameplay, as was obviously spent 
 on the premise and overall design, Assassin's Creed could have been that game for me.
  
  Unfortunately, that game never came, and that fact was just as clear to me in the first 30 minutes 
 of playing, as it was when I finally pulled it out of my 360's DVD tray, the only difference upon 
 completion was that I realized I could have spent my time playing something else that would have 
 been far more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerprojoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  I loved this game i had so much fun with this game i couldn't put it down with assassinating different 
 targets with your hidden blade to throwing knives at them it was a good game there are a couple 
 of thing that did get me though like the combat was a little repetative and that i wish he climbed 
 building a little faster then he did but all in all i loved this game also i wish they addeds someother 
 thing like differnet customes becuse if you think about it if your were walking down a street with 
 a blade on your back i think people would be suspetiouc, also i wish that there was a jump button 
 were you could jump from a ledege and assassinate that way becuse int the game if u wanted to assassinate 
 some one on a lower level you would have to climb down but its good and i cant wait for the sequel 
 to come out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsiper
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game is down right beautiful. The art direction is second to none it really does the job of 
 making you feel like you are indeed right there in the middle east during the crusades. The whole 
 idea and how they have woven the story is really amazing, what a creative and original IP this 
 is. Every once in a while a game comes along and proves that we have just scratched the surface 
 of what games can do story wise and artistically and let me tell you Assassins Creed is that game! 
 This phenomenal game is definitely a must buy for any one that truly loves games. There is no shortage 
 of things to do either in Assassins creed. This game is highly recommended and I really can't wait 
 to see where the series is going and what is in store for Altair in the coming installments!!!
 
  
  One of the hardest parts of this game is finding all of the flags in all of the cities. For those 
 of us that love to explore wide open worlds this is definitely a treat. This helps to make the 
 world very believable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryptonite09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is incredible. If anyone one were to make this a movie, they would have 
 no trouble filling in the blanks, if any. The story by far exceeds anything i could ever think 
 of myself. The way they blended historical events with their ideas were brilliant. This story left 
 with such a bang, i sat with the controller hanging on my finger tips.
  The Combat is prefect, as well. With many moves and counter attacks, you'll never get tired of 
 watching Altair shove his sword through another gut.
  
  There really isn't anything negative, other than the somewhat repetitive missions, with the exception 
 of a few. I wanted to start another campaign and unlock some of those pesky acheivments, but instead 
 found myself thinking it better to wait until the new release of the sequel. 
  I also wish they would have taken that extra step to make it multiplayer. But that is coming in 
 the sequel, as well. 
  
  If you haven't tried this game, but it or rent it. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, simply put, this is one of the greatest games of all time! It combines stealth and "all-out 
 onslaughts" in the largest and most detailed areas in a game I have ever seen. These three cities, 
 Damascus, Acre, and, of course, Jerusalem, which are historically accurate to the time of the third 
 crusade, are filled to the brim with stunning and breathtaking sites and sounds that a real ancient 
 city would have. The side quest are fun and add a lot of depth to the game and can get somewhat 
 repetitive, but it shouldn't take anything away from the game. The main quest is also lengthy and 
 makes you want to continue your mission just to find out what happens next. Saving citizens, scaling 
 large structures to map out your area, or helping your assassin brethren eliminate a few targets 
 or collect flags for him around the district your in. You also have to interrogate political speakers 
 by "beating the answer out of them" or you can listen to an important conversation and pickpocket 
 those people. Flags are scattered throughout every part of the game, the kingdom, masyaf, and the 
 three cities. It is difficult to find them all, but if you are a perfectionist, it's worth a try. 
 The nine leaders you need to assassinate throughout the game all have their own dynamic personalities 
 and can also wield the blade. You will receive a new ability along with a rank for each of these 
 leaders you kill, but you trade your ability to be hidden from the guards as they will recognize 
 you as you progress through the game. Fighting these guards is all about timing. You can time a 
 skillful, very well animated counter attack to your enemy's attack or you can just slash away at 
 them, dodging their attacks. The controls are so smooth, looking hard in the previews of the game, 
 but are so easy and make you want to roam the city for fun. Free-roaming. Excellent. It lets the 
 player have full control, picking their own path as you progress through any quest. The sound is 
 very central to the game, as the instruments you hear are from this area of the world. All in all, 
 it fits the game very, very well. Lastly, you can gallop through the kingdom on your horse and 
 the beggars and drunks in the cities, who push you around and ask for money, are very annoying. 
 So this game is special! You will remember this for years to come and if there is a sequel, anyone 
 who's played this will most likely buy it. It has captured the thrill of gaming and a true next-gen 
 experience! An awesome game, Assassin's Creed will still thrill many gamers from start to end! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I've played many games in my life, and no game has captured the thrill of assassination as this 
 game does. It throws you into a living breathing world, gives you some tools, gives you a target, 
 and let's you loose. This game is one of those games that will hold your attention just because 
 of how much freedom it gives you to attain your goal.
  
  The goal is generally simple enough. You have a target you need to kill, and you need to do some 
 investigation in order to figure out HOW to go about killing this person. You do this 9 times and 
 that is the game. Yes the main part of the game is THAT simple. That isn't what makes this game 
 so wonderful though.
  
  First off are the controls, which are brilliant. You actually have each of the face buttons mapped 
 to a body function. The Y button indicates the head, the X and B buttons indicate the arms and 
 A indicates the feet or lower body. It works wonderfully. You use Y to look around in order to 
 take in the sites and also to distinguish your targets. You use X to attack with your weapon, and 
 you use B to gently push people out of the way (or to grab people.... depending on whether you are 
 holding the action button... R trigger) . You use the A button to walk slowly and blend into the 
 crowds or to free-roam. 
  
  Speaking of crowds, that is another thing which makes this game absolutely brilliant. The cities 
 you visit are vastly populated, with people going about their lives. You can interact with the 
 people by just walking normally through them, attacking them, throwing them or pushing them out 
 of the way to get to a target. Oftentimes they will get in the way too, so you have to plan your 
 assassination with the crowds in mind. If they see someone die, they will point at you and they 
 will get scared and run or call guards. You even have beggars and drunkards and crazy people (though 
 they are nice at first, they tend to get VERY annoying later on, because they focus on you and 
 nobody else) . The crowd feels like a real crowd of people and it makes walking through the city 
 that much more deep.
  
  Ok, so maybe you are anti-social and don't care about the crowds... why not do some climbing? With 
 the free-roam function, the cities are very easy to traverse, jumping from building to building 
 and finding little places to hold onto for climbing and escaping.
  
  Many times you may not want to escape though, and instead will want to just have a nice, fair and 
 fun fight with guards or your target. In that case you have the choice of a short sword or a normal 
 swort to fight with, and you have dodges, counterattacks, guard breaks, blocks and other moves 
 at your disposal to make facing guards enjoyable. The guards will chase you down viciously and 
 will climb if you climb. If they can't climb somewhere they will throw rocks at you to bring you 
 down. If you are running away they'll alert other guards and those guards will make a barricade 
 and knock you over if you run towards them. The guards aren't necessarily smart, but these functions 
 sure do make them seem a bit more human than most games. How do you escape then? Well you can find 
 hiding spots to hide in if you aren't in a guard's line of sight and wait for them to temporarily 
 give up the search.
  
  You don't have to be so obvious though, and you could be discreet, sneak up behind a target and 
 stab them with a hidden blade, then flee the scene before he has a chance to fall to the ground. 
 This will cause guards to be on alert, but will not target you because they will have no reason 
 to suspect you (unless you give them a reason) . There are ways to be stealthy with throwing knives 
 as well, though it is a little more difficult because if you do it in a crowd then people WILL 
 see you throw the knife and you will be caught. Still, with the free-roaming and the large cities, 
 you are pretty much free to carry out your tasts as you see fit.
  
  Speaking of tasks, there are a handful of ways you can investigate for an assassination. You can 
 find one of your clan informers and do a menial task for him (usually assassinate some targets 
 discreetly or do a little timed flag collecting in the city) , interrogate people (with your fists) , 
 eavesdrop on conversations or pickpocket maps from conspirers. You can also run around saving harassed 
 citizens if you feel like it, in which case a group of vigilantes (informed of your noble help) 
 will help you out if the guards are ever on lookout for you. Lastly, you go around to high locations 
 to scope out the area in order to figure out where to start these quests.
  
  It sounds great and fun, but the one problem with this is that you do the same things over and 
 over before each of the 9 assassinations. It isn't too bad, but it can get boring for some people. 
 The main draw here are the cities.
  
  Each city (Masyaf, Kingdom [which is like the travelling area where you use your horse] , Jerusalem, 
 Acre and Damascus) is extremely detailed and accurate historically. Each has its own beauty and 
 variety and is a breathtaking site from the ground and on the buildings. There are some sequences 
 that take place in the future and are appropriately simple, but are also fairly boring (from a 
 gameplay and graphical standpoint) . The character models are extremely varied, yet because of how 
 many people you will see in the game, you will start to see a lot of the same people still. At 
 first this was a huge complaint of mine, but when you actually take a look at how many different 
 models there are, you realize that this 'lack of variety' is merely from having SO many people 
 in each city. Each target is uniquely modelled and Altair looks absolutely stunning. There are 
 times when the game looks a little more... simple than it should, but considering the setting, it 
 gets the job done just fine. The one real problem here are the animations. The character animations 
 are extremely natural and fluid and well done... usually. Sometimes you will get moments where body 
 parts will go through spasms or an NPC will get stuck and just start vibrating in place. These 
 are minor issues in an otherwise well animated game, but they are worthy of notice because you 
 WILL notice them when they occur.
  
  The sound on the other hand, is near perfection. The sound effects are great, from the footsteps, 
 to the environmental sounds to the sound of climbing the buildings. It is all done really well, 
 ESPECIALLY combat, which definately feels and sounds like it has some real punch (when you stab 
 somebody, you often watch as the weapon penetrates slowly, and then there is a rough push afterwards 
 to get it through... as an example) . The voice acting is also top-notch, from the main cutscenes 
 down to the random conversations in the streets. Sometimes it isn't quite as good as it could be, 
 but you will rarely find anything to complain about in the voice acting. The game sounds great.
 
  
  Last thing I should mention is the story. What starts as a simple conspiracy that you try and squash 
 as Altair, turns into a complicated turn of events in the past and future. The story is very good 
 and interesting, though it is left in a HUGE cliffhanger that leaves you with tons of questions. 
 That being said, the story develops appropriately and is very well done and interesting. Saying 
 more would spoil the fun.
  
  The main problem in this game is that the game has little replay value. There isn't really much 
 to do after the game, and most of the achievements are attainable through a single playthrough. 
 Getting all the flags can take a lot of time, and could be potentially interesting to some, but 
 I've never been into pointless item collecting so I didn't bother with going out of my way for 
 those flags. At the least though, if you play through the game getting all the investigations and 
 taking in all the sites, it will last you a decent amount of time (30 hours for me) . The extra 
 features on the Limited Edition are nice as well, though I don't include that in this rating since 
 Gamespot doesn't distinguish between LE/SE of games vs normal versions.
  
  This game has its own share of falls, from somewhat faulty animations, to repetitive gameplay, 
 but that doesn't keep it from being an absolutely amazing experience. This game manages to add 
 to the gaming world a type of game that is completely new, and it definately deserves recognition 
 for it. Somehow or the other, this is one game that should be experienced by anybody who is willing 
 to call himself/herself a gamer. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Story:
  You play as a modern day assassin who is doing experiments for a research facility. Altair is your 
 ancestor, and you are uncovering the story of his quest to end the Crusades. Altair is a reckless, 
 but skilled assassin. The game starts where you overlook a situation and try to assassinate a Templar, 
 when you fail and are thrown to be almost killed by rubble, leaving behind the other two assassin's 
 that were with him. You return to Masyaf, the assassin's keep, to report to Al Mualim, the assassin's 
 leader, of your failure. You have broken the creed in this job, which is a code that the assassin's 
 live by. You are punished for this and most of your equipment and skills are taken away. You must 
 redeem yourself by hunting down 9 men to hope to try to stop the Crusades. The story really sucks 
 you in with twists and turns, and a surprise ending, but I will let you experience all of these 
 for yourself.
  
  Controls:
  The controls are really unlike any ordinary action adventure have. There are many different walking 
 speeds. Holding A makes you walk very slowly, and blend in with society. Use this to not arouse 
 suspicion. Holding nothing walks at a regular pace, holding RT jogs, and RT and A sprints. B will 
 gently push anyone in your way, Y will give you a supervision and lets you easily determine who 
 is a guard, citizen, information, or target. Holding RT and pressing B will throw, and you can 
 change the direction with the left stick. Now, controls vary whether you are in a sword fight or 
 not. In a sword fight, A is to step, B is to grab, and X is to attack with a selected weapon which 
 you can change with the control pad. RT outs you into a block position and while you are holding 
 that, the controls will change. Remember, keep holding RT to perform these moves. A will dodge, 
 allowing you to get a quick strike afterwards, B is to perform a Grab break, which is used when 
 an enemy tries to grab you (basically a counter attack) , and X performs a Counter Kill, or attack (sometimes 
 it won't kill them) . There is also at the top right of your screen a symbol that represents the 
 enemies line of sight. If it is clear, that means everything is normal. Yellow means people are 
 watching you, Blinking Yellow means guards are chasing you but don't see where you are, Red means 
 guards are very suspicious, and Blinking red means they are chasing you and they see you, or that 
 you're in a sword fight. Whe you are being chased by guards you can hide in piles of hay, a rooftop 
 garden, a bench, or a group of scholars, as long as they don't see you do this. It will blink Blue 
 if they are still looking for you and green if it is safe to come out. LT Will engage you in a 
 battle or lock on to a target. While you are locked on you can use various controls: B to pickpocket, 
 and Y to eavesdrop, if you're sitting on a bench.
  
  Graphics:
  Wow... This whole living breathing world of assassin's creed is incredibly organic. Every shadow 
 is the perfect height and width. You really do feel like you could reach into the screen and feel 
 all the textures. The animations are superb as well. Altair performs a number of various stunts, 
 vividly and fluently and without any frame rate issues whatsoever. Citizens have somewhat jerky 
 movements, but everything else is so beautiful that you'll easily forget about it. I've heard about 
 the glitches, but have only seen one. I walked right through a stair way, but I could just go back 
 and climb the stair, so it isn'treally an issue.
  
  Sound:
  Everything you hear in Assassin's creed is just as amazing as what you see. At the pinnacle of 
 a tall tower, you'll hear the rush of wind, eagles screeching, the little twitter of birds, and 
 it is part of the whole game that brings it to life. On the streets you'll hear cries for help 
 from citizens being harassed by guards, Pleas for money (even though you can't give them any) , Store 
 merchants rambling on about bargains, speeches about the crusades, and even people humming. The 
 voice acting is very believable and every voice ties into the game. The voice acting for Altair 
 however, is good, but it doesn't really seem to fit in with all the other great voices in the game. 
 He almost sounds... American...... Anyway, the developers did an awesome job with the music in Assassin's 
 creed. All the most exciting points in Assassin's Creed comes along with great music when it's 
 from observing from a tall tower, from escaping after an assassination.
  
  Value:
  If you complete the bare bones of the game, without doing any optional tasks this game should at 
 least last you 10 hours. But if you are like me, you'll explore every detail of the cities and 
 this game will last you much longer. After the story (which ends with a notorious cliff hangar) , 
 you are free to use the animus to go back to certain points in your journey. If you like exploring, 
 or if you just want to get the achievements, you'll want to go back and get every flag and kill 
 every Templar
  
  Replay Value: High
  
  Overall: The best action adventure of the year, and maybe ever, and like in the title, it is one 
 adventure you cannot afford to miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were absolutely amazing, really shows the potenial of the next gen systems, and is 
 one of the games that you just want to stop for a few minutes and look at your (or Altair's) surroundings. 
 
  Combat was supriseingly fun, and their system works pretty well, allowing you to perform crazy 
 looking blade slices and even lets you splash blood into some of your oppenents eyes, allowing 
 for at least one quick hit. All weapons have benefits, and you will find yourself using all of 
 them to fit not only your desire, but your surronding.
  Sounds were good, nothing amazing, but solid. Unfournately, Altair's lack luster voice acting dragged 
 it down.
  Story, while decent, was a bit predictable, at least for Altairs part. I would have liked to do 
 a little more with Dezmond, but i suppose that's what the sequels are going to be for. Sadly, this 
 game had a very dissapointing ending, one that is simply and plainly annoying as hell, and rates 
 up there with Halo 2.
  Difficulty is managed supriseingly well, with you gaining abilities at the same time where one 
 counter move wont split your enemies throat wide open. The missions we're just god awful repettive, 
 basicially no differance whatsoever. Hopefully they'll fix that before the sequel comes out.
  .
  
  Graphics-10
  Gameplay-8.5
  Sound-6.5
  Story-8
  Difficulty-7
  
  Overall-8
 
  
  This game is pretty good, despite lame ending, bland voice acting, and repettivness. If you bought 
 it, rented it, or borrowed it, don't give it up to early. I was bored out of my mind after the 
 first leap of faith, but it becomes more fun as you gain back your weapons and talents. Stick with 
 it and you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryde_rebel93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of 2007's biggest dissapointments. It is boring and only amazes you in 
 the first couple of hours.
  
  Assassins'c Creed is set in 1191 AD..... well thats PART, the extra bit of the story is set in 
 the 21st Century. Since everyone has played the game, I will tell bit of the story, You are Desmond 
 Miles, and ex-assassin in the 21st century, your ancestor, Altair has the memories of a secret 
 treasure dating back to 1191. You are kidnapped and placed on the animus and your ancestors memories 
 can be played virtually. The plot seems very over done and is in some cases "stupid". Although 
 while playing you won't need to worry but the 21st century since you play in 1191.
  
  The gameplay of Assassin's Creed has goods and bads.
  Goods - Open wide environment, living breathing 
 cities, all cities are concepted in their oldern day format, A. I in the game is advanced, button 
 scheme is very easy to control and comfortable, jumping around buildings is fun.
  
  Bads - Very repetitive, boring after couple of days, frame-rate goes wonky at times, some glitches, 
 some what weird and complex combat system, stupid story line, jumping around buildings gets boring 
 after the game has finished.
  
  Aside from the bad, Assassin's Creed has stunning visuals and graphics, It is so stunning that 
 the city itself feels real and alive. Nearly everything in the game looks realistic. It is also 
 a quite colourful game.
  
  The sound is moderate. Just good enough for a game.
  
  In conclusion, I was brought into the hype. Assassin's Creed is worth a rental, but is good for 
 game collectors and hardcore action-platformer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroxin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Well one of my Christmas games that I asked for and got was Assassin's Creed, an absolutely amazing 
 game. Awesome game play with so many different attacks you can use. Starting the game off you loose 
 all you're weapons and you going on a quest to redeem yourself as a true assassin, after you broke 
 the 3 rules of the assassins. Assassinating guards, jumping over rooftops, assassinating hated 
 people, climbing up the highest buildings you can find to look at the AMAZING landscaping, and 
 saving citizens from guards, this game is truly revolutionary. 
  
  The best plot I've seen in a wile this game did there own thing unlike other sword games like Oblivion, 
 Fable or Zelda this is totally there own game. Really, really big map to go where ever you desire, 
 and so many people around the city, along with evil people too.
  
  This is one of the best games I've played in a wile and I defintly requmend trying it, buying it, 
 or evin renting it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikhael32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Let's be an Assassin, dwelling through the Holy Land, in times past, interacting with very realistic 
 targets, and killing characters which are inspired on actual historical facts.
  
  Sounds good? Well, it is, but sadly enough, Assassin's Creed isn't without it's flaws. However, 
 first things first:
  
  The game engine is amazing, and the graphics are simply stunning. The sheer game play options available 
 are great. Everything is climbable. The plot is somewhat interesting, as the game takes time simultaneously 
 in the past, and in a somewhat near future.
  
  The 'cut scene' (Where you can control your character, though in a somewhat limited way) moments 
 in the real world, between memory access (The actual levels) add majorly to the whole 'conspiracy 
 theory' surrounding the plot. 
  
  You move towards cities like Damascus, or Jerusalem, which are simply stunning, and one could just 
 climb a building, and stare at it, admiring it's beauty. 
  
  However, that has been far too explored. In terms of game progression, despite the real world moments 
 to spice up the plot, the suspense and emphasis quickly dies down, as the game is gripped in a 
 very boring, repetitive cycle. 
  
  You begin with moving out of the same city, on every single mission, and you have to run your way 
 down, get a horse, go to the kingdom gate, and, once you've explored it enough, you'll be able 
 to simply skip to a city.
  
  Every single time you enter a city, you do it the same way. Save an old man who will say he'll 
 go home, and suddenly out of nowhere, a group of clerics spawn, which only move when you're among 
 them. This is quite fun the first couple of times, but you will have to apply this technique over 
 and over, and over.
  
  The investigation quests (Which you take on prior to an assassination, which will move you further 
 up the plot) are the same ones as well, in every single city. Either you follow someone, and beat 
 them to death until they give you what you seek, or you find a friendly assassin which is always 
 a terrible wimp that bosses you around to kill his targets, or you stalk someone and pickpocket 
 them.
  
  Looking slightly into more detail, the interrogation quests are horrible. The hand to hand combat 
 scheme, is ghastly, unlike the swordplay which is actually alright (Though not without it's flaws) . 
 More often then not, you will be wondering how an old man is able to punch you to way below half 
 your death, and you cannot apply any of the fancy combat moves as you punch him. 
  
  Furthermore, the quests at where you are sent to stealthily kill a few targets among town are quite 
 good, however, once they get a timer on, it totally breaks the fun, after the first few times. 
 5 minutes to kill 6 targets spread out the city hardly seems doable at first. Sure, you will miss 
 a few times, but eventually you'll get them.
  
  After all this, once you finally do move onto the assassination itself, it is always very linear. 
 You get a very elaborate cutscene describing the target's demeanor, and then you find a way to 
 get to them, at which point, they will dart off running in the direction of the nearest guard tower, 
 and ultimately, you'll have to kill them, in hand to hand combat. This happens with most assassinations 
 and makes it very repetitive, boring, and unrealistic.
  
  Navigating through the city is fun, especially jumping the rooftops. The guards there are especially 
 vulnerable to being pounced on and slain with your hidden knife, or to fall victims to a ranged 
 attack with a throwing knife. However, below, in the city streets, guards will be more aware of 
 you sometimes for meaningless reasons. Insane men will be wandering about, babbling to themselves, 
 keeping quiet to everyone, but repeatedly choose to shove you around, making you loose your stance. 
 It makes sense to have characters in the game that you'd want to avoid, but the fact you can't 
 do anything to them is somewhat annoying. 
  
  Even more annoying are the beggars. Not the fact that they are in the game, for that makes alot 
 of sense, but their speech. It is always the same, in the same tone, in a very short, infinitely 
 repetitive loop, and will quickly get on your nerves, even when you have a cutscene moment and 
 the beggars won't leave you alone.
  
  Focusing on yet another flaw, comes the sword-oriented combat. It's quite interesting and very 
 much alright, but if you stick to holding down the defense button, and simply press the counter-attack 
 each time an enemy throws his blade at you, then, you can easily take on twenty or more foes at 
 a time (which tends to happen at the guard towers, if the assassination target makes it there) , 
 which is plain stupid.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is an above average game, since no game is without it's flaws, however, 
 the sheer potential that this game has to offer, and how little explored it, just throws it's flaws 
 into sharp relief.
  
  The game starts out brilliantly, but soon tries to throw the player in a style of 'open-end' gameplay, 
 which is boring, repetitive, and not really that open-ended. You can only choose to go for the 
 rooftops, or the streets, and it gets old fast.
  
  It's truly a shame that the developers didn't choose to maintain the game like the first few memories, 
 where new events were constantly unfolding, and you would be guided towards the situations by NPCs 
 driven by specific motives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, Assassin's Creed lets you play as Altair, the protagonist of the game. From time to 
 time, you'll find yourself in the real world, rather than 1191. 
  
  The graphics of this game is very good, but some things could have been done better, such as the 
 citizens, they pretty much all look the same. 
  
  The sound is alright, but if you aren't playing with a speaker system, you may have a hard time 
 hearing some of the dialogue in the game. 
  
  The gameplay was probably the biggest flaw in this game. You do the same thing EVERY assassination 
 (leave your "master", go to different city, climb big towers, do some "investigations", talk to 
 bureau leader, get feather, and kill someone) . You pretty much do that throughout the whole game. 
 Fun for probably the first two times, but just gets too repetitive. Another flaw is the AI. Guard 
 fights are way too easy, and citizens are clueless. Why? Because after you "stealthy" kill someone, 
 all they can do is say "omg who killed him?" Well if you saw someone walk up to him and a second 
 after he falls, then it obviously has to be him. But the AI couldnt figure that out. 
  
  The storyline is the only reason I continued to play, it was nice and exciting to find out about 
 everything from people that pretty much contradicts everything that your "master" says and tells 
 you. Sorry for any spoilers, and I'll most likely not play this game again.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has very well graphics, almost every thing in the game looks good. Game Spot said it 
 is a little glitchy but i haven't seen anything hence to that. The game starts off very, very boring 
 i can tell you that but dont take it wrong that is how i felt personally. The talking scenes are 
 a dull and boring they dont really do anything to it that makes you want to listen. The game play 
 is good with everything on the climbing and jumping around defiantly beats lara croft games but 
 the swording fighting is just okay it is just hack and slash. They could have added more combo's 
 or maybe some you would actually want to do. 
  I must say one of the most funnest things in the game is riding around the horse it is a good way 
 to get from town to town and really fits well with the game. The towns are really detailed well 
 with tons of places for you to jump off of and go crazy with. 
  Game Spot's review did get something right it is repetitive but when ease dropping they made it 
 seem like it was a long conversation it really only last a minute, two the most.
  
  Last, there are good amounts of side missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KittenToes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a lovely game to look at, its graphics are brilliant and its got some of the 
 most gorgeous views to look at in a video game ive seen, when climb to the top of a really tall 
 tower and the camera pans round its like... WOW. 
  But... after you've ran to a city, ear-wigged a bit, saved a few beggars then killed the target 
 your supposed to kill the rest of the game consists of... running back to a city, ear-wigging a 
 bit, save a few beggars, kill your targets and repeat... it gets very boring very quick. 
  I dont regret buying it, its a beautiful game dont get me wrong but i think its a classic case 
 of make the graphics spot on and we will worry and the game-play later.
  Although its realllly fun just running up to people to use your hidden sword and disappear again, 
 i also really like the free running its the best bit just hopping over all the roof tops and climbing 
 about like a way cooler spider-man! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalkiel666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  I am highly addicted to this game. I can't stop playing it. Im obsessed with it.
  
  What can I say that hasn't been said already. The simple fact that it has a great game play, feel, 
 emotional intense type of feeling. To the fact that its not a "Rush rush go fast kill kill kill, 
 get some get some" game but more of a take your time, walk, hide, spy, shadow yourself in the crowd 
 type game.
  
  The graphical details are obnoxtiously awsome. Sick even. All in a good way that is. There were 
 a few times that I wanted to punch my wall and throw my joystick to were I actually picked up a 
 kitchen chair and chucked it at my wall do to the annoying retard's and/or drunk douche bags that 
 hit you for no reason and blow your cover while trying to assassinate a target. But all in all 
 I love it and I hope to God theres a Part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  A game within a story, Assassin's Creed is a mind blowing concept of a game that will keep you 
 thinking the entire time. You are Altair... well kinda... you are actually Desmond, an assassin who 
 has has been captured by Abstergo Industries and is forced to participate in an Animus that reads 
 Genetic Memory. You play through the genetic memory as the aforementioned Altair. Yeah the story 
 is that deep, and there is at least two stories going on at all times in the game. This does a 
 really good job of setting the Historic Sci-Fi mood that the game is drenched in. 
  
  Visually/Graphically, Assassin's Creed is nearly perfect, you really are given the feeling that 
 you are in the Third Crusade and you are reliving history. Glitches in the Animus are intentionally 
 added to express the Sci-Fi aspect of the game and the way the event weave when watching a glitch 
 is extremely cinematic. AC shows off exactly what the XBOX 360 is capable of and sets a new standard 
 for historic art direction. There is however a strange slowdown occurs during fast sprint through 
 cities and a few too many enemies fall through walls. 
  
  The gameplay is reminiscent of Prince of Persia, however due to the vastness of the open landscape 
 you are working with the controls have been dumbed down to allow you to traverse the cities without 
 being bogged down by beam balancing and cliff grabbing. The combat engine is the most refined of 
 all. There is a great feeling of satisfaction with every enemy killed in a large battle and the 
 stealth kills can be haunting. On the gameplay I have no problems, except that it may be too easy. 
 
  
  My main problem with the game is the repetitiveness the missions. There are about 5 different types 
 of missions in each city and they simply repeat themselves over and over making the experience 
 very redundant. Luckily the rest of the game is so strong, you will want to complete all the missions 
 and kill all the templars. 
  
  Being one of the most intriguing games I have played in years Assassin's Creed will capture your 
 attention and not let go until you reach the exciting cliffhanger which will leave you wanting 
 more. Ok Ubisoft, I'm ready for Assassin's Creed 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imbulletpr00f
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  well this is not a great game as far as it goes in my eyes i played may be 6 hours and it was really 
 boring i almost fell to sleep.
  
  graphics: ok the pretty but that still isnt making up for the gameplay
  
  Gameplay: well lets 
 put it tlike this repetitave and boring repettiave and boring. its the same thing over and over. 
 finding view points killed it for me like what the hell climb a building whoop d do.
  
  the one thing that pissed me off to no end was yes of course always getting attacked when going 
 into citys. then i am forced to use the blend feature taking me 20-40 minutes to get to where i 
 want to and then if i kill the guards im stuck running around which pissed me off more. There is 
 my review plaese rent beforee purchasing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx-CLOUD-xX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very Detailed environments, Fun gameplay, Great story, fun missions, great audio, great 
 sound effects, cool warning system, awesome fighting moves, nice graphics, and the best thing its 
 not a shooter.
  
  The Bad: Ending leaves you hanging and confusing you.
  
  Well ubisoft has decided to make a differint game rather then a shooter with Assassins Creed. And 
 does it live up to the hype. Definitly. Assassins Creed is a third person stealth game where you 
 the player are an average bartender Desond miles who is the last descendant of a long family line 
 of Assassins. Desmond is taken to a place where he is forced to use the Animus, which is a machine 
 that traces memories of his ancestors during the Third Crusade. The story takes place in 1191 where 
 Altair is given the objective to kill nine historical figures causing the crusade in 1191. Assassins 
 Creed is a game based upon religious beliefs. The game takes place in a kingdom consisting of four 
 main cities jerusalem, Acre, Damacus and Maysaf. The story in Assasins Creed is really good and 
 definitly alot better then all the other stuff going on in games out there.
  
  The gameplay for Assasins Creed is once again a thrid person stealth action game. You are Altair 
 and your goal is to assasinate 9 historical figures. The best way to decribe Assassins creed is 
 its sort of like a prince of persia except you can cruise. One thing very interesting about Assassins 
 Creed is the various missions you can do like eavesdropping, interrogations, and pickpocketing. 
 Some thing else interesting is the warning system thing you have.. If the triangle shaped figure 
 is plain cloured no one is suspicios of anything, if the triangle figure is yellow Guard are suspicious 
 of you, and if you are in red guards are aware that you are there. There are alot of cool elements 
 to the game but one of the coolest things is the sick moves you can do. For example: If you are 
 in a battle with someone and you are holding the RT button and press X just before they attack 
 you a small cutscene thing will pop up of Altair reversing the move and doing something like sick.. 
 Mainly stabbing the victim. Some cool stuff are during movies a "visual glitch* will pop up and 
 if you press any button you will see the movie from a differint perspective. Some cool stuff was 
 the place you could hide or blend with scholars. Something that really makes Assasins Creed a great 
 games is actually climbing.. Yeah sounds weird eh? But climbing is fun. Also you could climb up 
 on to view points and scale down the city from within that view point. There is just alot to do 
 in this game from pickpoketing, collecting the flags, Integrating, to saving people and from the 
 main thing killing.. And isnt that all we want in a video game nowadays? Overall the Gameplay is 
 a great expirince.
  
  The graphics for Assassins Creed are VERY detailed. You can tell this just by taking a glimpse 
 at the environments. The characters in the game also look great. It is also claimed by Ubi that 
 the environments are historically accurate. The graphics for this game are just so beautiful and 
 you cant ask much more from this.
  
  Now for the Audio I thought it was great. The sound effects sounded great and also the music sounded 
 amazing. Also I thought the VO were very well done.. They actually sounded alot like osmeone would 
 sound way back when but the best thing about the audio overall expirince is it really captures 
 you in to it.
  
  Now Overall Assassins Creed is an AWESOME game which is alot better then most of the thousands 
 of shooters we are seeing now. You should definitly pick this game up especially if your getting 
 tired of just playing shooters or Halo 3 in yout basement yelling in your mic YOU STUPID NOOB. 
 I would definitly recommend getting this game if you have a 360, or a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royvanderhoorn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  After playing Assassin's Creed (AC) I didn't really know what to think of it.. After some long 
 thoughts I really had mixed feelings. A good storyline.. the gameplay was almost always the same, 
 with no real big change in it until the end.
  
  ASSASSIN'S CREED (UBISOFT MONTREAL)
  
  You start off with a guy named Altar, who's been captured by some research lab that wants information 
 you have.. Or at least your great great grand-parents had. You are going to have to co-operate, 
 since they are not letting you go until the researchers have what they are looking for. They are 
 going to bring back the memories that are needed. You play those memories, going back in time, 
 in Altars thoughts. Great idea, eh?
  
  I think it is, and that's why the storyline really appealed to me. At first there is not much to 
 discover, but the lineair gameplay soon dissapears and makes room for a large playing field. You 
 have three major cities to go to. In these cities you will need to do assassinations in order to 
 advance. You are free to choose whenever you want to do such an assassination though. You can run 
 around, climb up rooftops and do whatever you like. Get chased by guards for helping out a poor 
 woman, let them hunt you down on the rooftops and them throw them one by one off the roof. Really 
 cool thing to do.. For an hour or two.
  
  Then there's these jobs you need to accomplish. They are always the same.. Gather information (Sit 
 down on a bench and listen to a conversation) , beat someone up until the person talks, or just 
 steal something from someone's pockets. All of this stays the same until the game is completed.. 
 so very repetitive. The game always consists of these missions. Gather information   Assasinate 
   Talk to your ''boss'', the brotherhood.
  
  All together, this game is fun to play, didn't encounter much that I dislike, except the gameplay 
 that just keeps on repeating itself. Large areas to play in, do whatever you like, and a cool voice 
 and soundtrack make this game one of the best games for the 360.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Replay value: 8/10
  
  
  By Roy van der Hoorn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Assassins Creed was a great idea for a video game, and I really like alot of the game play. 
 For instance, having throwing knives, a sword, a short blade, and your special assassins hidden 
 blade is really cool. Also the fact that you get to climb almost any building. The problems come 
 in when you keep playing it for hours. It gets very repetitive saving citizens and climbing to 
 eagle points over and over and over. Plus I didn't like all the stuff about the animus in the story, 
 that was just stupid. If you don't know what I'm talking about, the animus is a machine that lets 
 you access the memories of your ancestors, so your not actually a medieval assassin but just remembering 
 being a medieval assassin. Not much replay value, therefore I recommend renting but not buying 
 this game. It really isn't worth sixty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  One of the few games on my list that is just flat out amazing. The amount of detail in the graphics 
 and gameplay make the game a MUST-PLAY. The use of the game environment is insane. Pretty much 
 anywhere you can think of going, he can go. The cinematics make the fighting scenes very enjoyable 
 and the controller setup makes your gameplay moves extra smooth. 
  
  Unfortunately even with all these pluses to the game, there is only one part of this game that 
 is a dissapointment. Once you've killed your enemies everyway possible, and do every mission including 
 the side missions, the game is pretty much done. The replay value is next to zero due to repetitiveness. 
 No online play, and some of the achievments are just flatout ridiculous... Finding these flags 
 all throughout the cities can be quite annoying, even with a guide map (very time consuming) . 
 
  
  I purchased the game but resold it not too long after. I would suggest making it a rental and play 
 it hard for the time you have it and you'll most likely experience all the good of the game. 
 
  
  I am very impressed with the detail and storyline, very creative! But due to it lacking replay 
 value, I'm going to have to short it from a perfect score by giving it a 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodyghost11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I got Assassins Creed for Christmas. I found it confusing at first but when i got into the gameplay 
 it was amazing. The advanced control scheme makes it easy to climb buildings or jump for place 
 to place. Whether its assassinating targets, pickpockets for knives, or taking a 100 foot leap 
 of faith, this game gets better and better. But eventually it goes from better to better to better 
 to worse. It gets very repetitive after about memory block 4. You would get very bored and I stopped 
 playing it for a least 2 weeks. If you are looking for a new xbox game here are my suggestions. 
 Although it came out in August 2007, Bioshock is my favorite game to play right now. If you not 
 into the horror/ first person shooter/ adventure genre, then I would get Call of Duty 4. This game 
 has an OK Campaign and an EXCELLENT XBOX LIVE mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanSniper1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I recently beat this game and i found it to be one of the best sword fighting games ive ever played. 
 The only thing i did not like is the collecting of the stupid flags as the achievements. The story 
 is great although left with an unsasisfying ending, that im sure they will cure with a sequel. 
 Another thing i enjoyed was in the computer emails, there were references to RL conspiracies, like 
 the Philadalphea experiment, which i actually studied due to this game and learned something! a 
 fun game where you can slice your opponents into peices while learning intereseting history of 
 our corrupted government! how wonderful is that! The gameplay was great, hack and slack your way 
 through cities golore and climb almost atop any building you wish! I cant wait till they make Creed 
 2, but im afriad Ninja gaidan 2 will steal me from this series! sorry creed ) = 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarge2130
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome, and all of the people who say that the people have all the same basic 
 look are stupid because they do but if they made the game, would they go in and create a million 
 different looking people. if you look at any game, the missions are usually going to be the same 
 with a little variation but in assassin's creed, it gets harder each time. the graphics are some 
 of the best I've seen. and the cliffhanger ending is there for a reason... THERE IS GOING TO BE 
 A SECOND ONE!!!!! I am glad they are because it is going to be better than the first, along with 
 there is going to be another after the next one. it can get boring after a while but that's when 
 I go kill a guard and run through the city, just to fight about 30 to 50 guards. overall I would 
 say it is a lot of fun and people should try to just have fun in it instead of just focusing on 
 the missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed765
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  graphics dont save this game from its shotty game play, annoying repetiveness, and unbelivably 
 annoying unskipable cutscenes the game has a story that is tooo short to understand, when your 
 playing this game you start to feel the annoyingness of it but you want to see it through to the 
 end when you play this game you try and make it out to be open ended but it still feel really closed 
 off, i mean yeh its got that GTA feel of free roming but what ru gonna "oh i think i'll go look 
 at this tumble weed, oh no wait i'll rideendlessly on a horse to a city that was the same as the 
 last" "oh i think i'll climb a bulding that it oddly the same as the last" face it this game was 
 a big let down no matter how you assasinate it first time around it'll be fun second time you'll 
 be wishing you got a COD4 or BIOSHOCK i give this game a 5 out 10 visuals dont save this one bit 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmaynard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this game has to be one of the best looking I have ever seen. Climb to the 
 top of one of the tallest towers and you will see what I am talking about. The power of the next 
 gen systems never ceases to amaze me. You play as Altair and your job, in a nut shell, is to eliminate 
 9 different people that are corrupting the various cities. Those cities include Jerusalem, Acre, 
 and Damascus. All of which seem to have been painstakingly recreated as if the game makers had 
 the blue prints for them. The architecture is something to behold. You can do pretty much whatever 
 you want. You can go wherever you want; you can even assassinate anyone you want to, although innocent 
 civilians bring a penalty, but not a permanent one. The controls are nice because all you have 
 to do is hold the A with the Right shoulder button to run and Altair will climb, jump, etc. when 
 he needs to. The bad thing about this though, is when you are running from guards; the controls 
 sometimes get in the way. You want to go one direction, and Altair grabs a ladder, when you did 
 not want him to. Or jumps into a pile of hay when he is in the line of sight of a guard. Running 
 from guards has never been this fun though. Once you get the hang of it, it is actually quite thrilling 
 and you will find yourself killing one guard just so you can run away from the rest. This game 
 does a good job of mixing stealth with action, and as far as I am concerned, it makes stealth seem 
 a viable feature to the game, and not just something they wrote on the back of the box. If you 
 do choose to stand and fight, the fighting mechanics are on par as well. If you are like me and 
 looking for something different than a FPS, this is the game for you. Without a doubt, worth adding 
 to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikestunner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is my favorite and in my opinion the best Xbox 360 game. Prince of Persia has 
 always been my favorite Series and I loved playing it. Now Assassin's Creed is out and I got it. 
 It is a Great game and worth getting. The Graphics are great, Really good. The fights are a lot 
 of fun and not too hard. The City's are big, fun running through and a few side story's to go do. 
 So far its one of the best 360 games I've played!
  They have many things to go and do, Between saving People, View points, Flag collecting and Assassination 
 targets. So the game gets a 9.5 Rating from me.
  When I started playing I've become addicted to the game. The story is nice and easy while being 
 alot of fun to go through. Its also cool seeing the story to the game and whats happening. Also 
 taking a break from the story to roam around the town, Killing guards and it doesn't get boring 
 like most games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elann2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  From a distance, there's commotion in the marketplace. A woman looks over to see what the fuss 
 is about. Suddenly, the woman drops the newly crafted vase. Within a glimpse of an eye, a man in 
 a white hooded outfit dashes off into the terrace, never to be seen again...
  
  And that's all pretty much you'll being doing in the world of Assasin's Creed. I found myself doing 
 a lot of climbing. That's climbing up buildings, towers, walls, anything, he can get his hands 
 on. The team at Ubisoft did a great job with level design, detail. texturing, physics, and all 
 the terminologies that I have no knowledge of. They did an amazing job. The game is beautiful, 
 amazing when it comes to visuals. Eye candy. The controls are easy to use and quite smooth for 
 the most part, with the exception of occasions where you find yourself running from the guards 
 and out of no where, you start skipping from the ledge of the stairway to some other random physical 
 structure you can land on, maybe a bench. So I'm trying to run straight, but because of the control 
 set up, you end up doing this run and skip routine instead. It can become very frustrating, when 
 trying to catch an important person you need to assasinate. 
  
  The combat system at first seemed very intriguing and irresistibly fun, became tedious and childish 
 later on in the game. Indeed, it was refreshing to learn how to rip an enemy's throat, or plunge 
 a short sword into the enemies heart. Rather, a very satisfying treat for the gamer, but you'll 
 find yourself in the same predicament again and again. Fending off the guard or multiple guards. 
 And it is very easy to take on four to five guards at a time and single handedly slaughter them 
 all, like you were King Leonidas from the movie 300. A bit exaggerated but true. One thing I found 
 very annoying was saving an innocent civilian from the hands of the guards. From what may seem 
 like a paragon task for a petty thief and assassin, or Robin Hood as one may say, it can really 
 be annoying. You go in for your first instant kill, from behind. One guard down. You get in your 
 stance and anticipate the draw of the sword from another guard. KLANK! You parry the first attacker. 
 Another guard decides to poke fun at you and swings his mighty sword at you. You parry. KLANK! 
 With that counter, you deliver a blow, then you do the same to the other guards. You saved the 
 day, yay! You have to talk to the innocent civilian for completion of task. But while you're talking 
 to the civilian, nearby villagers are already yelling for help, spreading suspicion into narrow 
 ways of the town. Guards storm in, and you're stuck still talking to the damn civilian! And the 
 camera angle locks you until the quest clears. How annoying. By the time you try to run off, the 
 guard is already there, you get caught, AGAIN. And he calls for more guards. Rinse repeat. 
  
  Now to the main objectives - missions. The missions are fairly simple. You find the man, you 
 assasinate him. But what I like about these missions, is that, you get an occasional cutscene that 
 takes you more into the storyline or does it.. But nevertheless, it makes the mission dramatic 
 and really makes you want to kill the guy! On the downside, assasinating the target is just like 
 killing a guard. After you kill your assassination target or boss, whatever you'd like to call 
 it. It takes you to the misty glowing room, and you're holding the dead guy in your arms. And this 
 happens after every boss you assasinate. Repetitive eh? It sure is.
  
  Assassin's Creed delivers a surprising new look and feel to the xbox 360. For you Prince of Persia 
 fanboys out there, it's nothing really new to you. But from a standpoint, it looks to be a promising 
 game but due to it's repetitiveness and tedious gameplay, you end up losing interest rather quickly. 
 This game, visually, has everything it takes to be a winner. But the gameplay dumbs down the beauty 
 and the vision. Every part of me wanted to love this game, but without a solid gameplay, there 
 isnt much to love. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falcorious
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  If you have trouble sleeping, buy this game. After you've played it for about an hour, you will 
 realize that there is nothing left to do but the same thing over and over and over and over again. 
 It is probably the best game ever in terms of graphics, but I have never played a game with such 
 consistently high reviewer ratings that turned out to be so incredibly dull.
  
  There is simply nothing going on in this game beyond killing people in various ways, but with a 
 limited number of weapons. No real upgrades, no chests, nothing. You can wander around and find 
 flags if you want, but boy have I got better things to do!
  
  I can't stress how stunned I was when I realized how little was going on in this game. I think 
 it happened after I finished the second assassination. The next time I went to Jerusalem, I literally 
 walked down the street using the assassin blade on every guard I saw and just kept walking. Fun? 
 Maybe for a little while, but then you start thinking -- what's the point here? The assassination 
 contracts are easy to do, and you can literally fight off small armies if you have to. But you 
 won't want to, unless this is just your thing. Otherwise, you are going to be unbelievably bored.
 
  
  I teach medieval history. If it wasn't for that, I'd be trading this thing right now on Swaptree. 
 I'll keep it for the graphics, as they are once again stunning.
  
  I can't understand the ratings this thing has received. I think people don't want to underrate 
 the graphics, and I can understand that.
  
  PROS: Terrific graphics. Best body mechanics I've ever seen. Fight animations are realistic and 
 interesting. Everything associated with visuals is the best ever, period.
  
  CONS: Gameplay. Absolutely lame game elements. THere is just nothing going on in this game that 
 makes it worth playing past the first hour. THe only reason you'll continue is to see the sights, 
 and you will keep hoping something is going to change. It won't.
  
  Overall, I gave this thing a 7 because the graphics deserve the highest possible score.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evan_goldberg
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype surrounding this game, I thought it was going to be beast. When I first started 
 playing, for about the first hour it was fun, but the gameplay is so repetitive. In order to kill 
 your targets, you must first gain information about them, which is done by eavesdropping, killing 
 people, or pickpocketing. I don't mind having to do one or two of those, but you have to do at 
 least 3 for each target and there are 9 targets in the game. also, veiwpoints must be climbed to 
 find this information points, which are fun to get to, but you ultimately find that repetitive 
 as well. Pretty much everything about this game is repetitive except for the layout of the cities, 
 which while looking at the big picture, really arent all that different. Also, as soon as you assassinate 
 one of your targets, you find yourself in swordfights. I do not mind fighting off 4-5 guys then 
 being able to escape, but sometimes you find yourself against 15-20 guards and they attack one 
 at a time and it is extremely easy to counter their attacks, so there is actually no real challenge. 
 Also with the guards, if you do so much even nudge them, you have to pull out your sword and fight 
 them, which means more guards will come as well. About 90% of the game is swordfighting and the 
 other 10% is just wandering around where the hell to go next. Also, which i found as the biggest 
 downside, is there is WAY TOO MUCH DIALOG. I love a good storyline, but I swear you will spend 
 the same amount of time listening to dialog (that you can't skip) as much as you will actually 
 playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegamanX97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Ive played this game for a few days straight and enjoyed it!
  
  Assassins creed is a new game by ubisoft monteal. You take on the roll of an assassin, but in reality 
 you are nothing more than a bartender that got caught in a companies expiriment. In your DNA is 
 a secret that the company wants so you are stuck in a machine and viola you are back to your assassin 
 origians of your ancesters. Now on to the bread and butter!!
  
  Game play - This is were the game lives by the sword and dies by the sword. When you first go into 
 assassins creed you are excited because of the huge cities you get to explore. Running around and 
 jumping, climbing stuff is a lot of fun at first, but over time it does seem a bit dull doing the 
 same thing over, but one game doesnt have repitition? On a really strong note the cities are that 
 cool and interactive you will want to climb buildings just to look around. 
  
  The battle system fits very well. You have your basic attack move where you will swing your sword, 
 and then there is a very effective dodge move which will save your butt more times than you will 
 know it. You get throwing knives which are also a lot of fun, standing on a roof and throwing down 
 daggers on your enemy soldiers is fun and amusing, but there is a catch to all these neat tricks, 
 and that is you have to start off as an assassin basicly starting from scratch to learn your masters 
 respect, so you will have to play a first few sets of the missions before you aquire all your skills.
 
  
  Graphics are very very well done on this game. The city looks amazing and the character models 
 are just as good. This is one of those games were you literally can get caught looking at the scenery 
 because it is that well done and amazing you can not help but stair at it. The animation is fluid 
 with little to no frame rate drops. Only twice i had the frames drop and it wasnt anything really 
 noticible! graphicly this game accomplished a lot!
  
  Sound - Voice acting game me something left to desire. Altair's voice i thought was fitting, emotionaless 
 assassin. The master of the assassins guild was also very believable and well done, but the rest 
 of the characters were decent, but voice actinng does not take away from this game at all!
  
  Game play sounds are well done from the clashing of the swords to just basicly running around 
 and doing your thing in each individual city. The sounds of your actions and the actions around 
 you are very well done.
  
  Closing comments on Assassins creed is, the game is a lot of fun and is very exciting when first 
 starting out, but as time goes on and you assassinate more targets the game does become a bit more 
 dry, you have to interigate people and listen on people and pick pocket people every time you need 
 to assassinate a target. Lucky there are 6 targets and you only have to do 3, but to get an achievment 
 in this game you will have to get all 6 for each assassination! 13 hours of game play is about 
 average to beat, and that i with doing most of the achievments like i did. Over all assassins creed 
 is a unique and very well made game and no one will suffer giving this game a try!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is often compared to Crackdown, which was another game released on the 360. Since both 
 games do offer open world game play that requires you to do the same thing over and over, and both 
 have this vertical element to them where you climbing building and stuff. I have to say its a valid 
 comparison and if you liked Crackdown you should give this game a shot. The setting and the swordplay 
 set it far enough apart that its worth playing, and won't feel rehashed.
  
  However if you were like me though and thought Crackdown was total garbage and half broken. Than 
 there is still reason to pick this game up.
  
  First the graphic they are absolutely stunning. I know graphic don't make a game but they make 
 you want to play it. And this game looks great, as opposed to that other game.
  The music is also great, the only complaint I had is I wish there was more instances where you 
 got to hear it. That said a lot better than that other game.
  
  This however is not a review for that other crappy game, I just really hated Crackdown about it. 
 For reason that should honestly be left out of my review for Assassins Creed. The two games are 
 just so often compared to one another that everything that one judges a video game on Graphics, 
 Sound, Game play, Innovation, story, blah, blah, etc, etc... Is better here than Crackdown. 
  
  Now does Assassin's Creed fall short yes many of the games moment seem forced and offer littler 
 reward. What I mean that is this, while playing the game there are things that could have increased 
 player involvement just given the basic template of the game. For example before each assassination 
 you are required to go on investigation mission. You can choose from six missions and you only 
 need to do three, So why would you do six, especially if there is no great reward for doing so.
 
  
  Speaking of the missions there is no balance to them they range from super easy eves dropping, 
 really easy pickpocket, easy interrogation, and than the annoying informer mission that are usually 
 timed and either have you collected flags in a race of killing a set number of targets without 
 having your cover blown. the missions could have been done better. And they could have offered 
 some other stuff to do as well.
  
  Something other than looking for flags which game developers need to stop putting that in games. 
 It was one thing in a 2d plat former where even the largest levels could be explored in mere minutes. 
 When the size of a level is as large as a city. I don't feel like finding 100 flags this is not 
 a GPS tracking game!
  
  With that all being said I did like Assassin's Creed but if you watch the trailer thinking how 
 cool it would be to be able to climb all these building and jump off them stealth assassinating 
 people than play the game. Everything you see in the trailer is in the game their not lying to 
 you. The controls are incredibly smooth as well.
  
  I ended up liking Assassin Creed and the game managed to stay in my 360 till I finished it, which 
 earns it extra bonus points. The game also broadens the doors to gaming and even just a little 
 that's a good thing. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is truely a next-gen game. You play as a character named Desmond Miles (or rather 
 Altair) . In the really world in this game you are Desmond, but when you step into the Animus you 
 are assassin Altair. The Animus is a computer thing, basically like Star Trek's Holodeck. When 
 you play Altair you work for the Assassin's, and they have a creed. Most of the time Altair is 
 getting in trouble and breaking those creeds. He losses his rank and startes back as a "grasshopper." 
 
  
  To be able to get your rank back you must killed evil men who believe they are doing good. Which 
 we all know killing people that are in our standards good is not good. Along the way through the 
 game you develope new moves and combos, which have some pretty awesome sequences.
  
  The graphics in this third-person game it great. The storyline was put together well - have to 
 say the dudes at Ubisoft know what their doing. The voice-acting are pretty darn good, until you 
 get to the "fat-dude," whom ever acts that guy sucks. Well you'll find out after you play Assassin's 
 Creed.
  
  Would I recommend this game? Yes! If your the kind of person that likes to "master the art of the 
 kill" then you might want to buy this game, if it's not you kind of game, at least rent it. You 
 can get it not just for the Xbox360, but as well as the PS3.
  
  ~ gamer-clemm review ~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Kitsune-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Creed is actually a game played from two perspectives. It takes place in the present day, contrary 
 to first impressions, and it begins with Desmond Miles, a descendant of the assassin Altair. Desmond 
 is being held by a scientist and his assistant who want to probe his memories using a device called 
 the animus. These memories, which are played from Altair's perspective, are actually the setting 
 for the vast majority of the game, and Desmond only comes into play to advance the plot.
  From the beginning, it's clear that Creed is a visually stunning game. Buildings are intricately 
 detailed, animations are fluid and precise (especially those of Altair) , and the teeming masses 
 of people make each city feel authentic. The ancient middle east is a setting not often seen in 
 video games, but Creed certainly does it justice. 
  The controls take a little getting used to, but once mastered fighting and climbing become second 
 nature. Combat is extremely simplistic at first, but as Altair regains rank he also acquires new 
 abilities that make it far more interesting. It's not long before button mashing will only get 
 you killed. Countering, dodging, and using the environment (my favorite is throwing guards into 
 merchant stands for an easy kill) are essential tactics to master. Simply exploring the environments 
 is one of the most enjoyable aspects of the game, as Altair can run, jump and climb like Spider 
 man.
  Game play follows a set formula: The Assassin's Guild master, Al Mualim, sends you to a city to 
 eliminate one of nine corrupt leaders. Once there you can either collect information on your target 
 and start the assassination mission, or you can spend time doing the city side quests. The assassin 
 missions themselves are challenging and fun, with each one requiring different tactics. The side 
 quests are really the only issue I have with the game. Each city has almost exactly the same quests, 
 which involve saving some hapless citizen, doing timed assassinations for an informant, or collecting 
 flags scattered around the area. Although these are also enjoyable to a certain extent , hearing 
 the same lines of dialogue over and over again gets old fast.
  Despite the repetitiveness of the side missions, I would still recommend Assassin's Creed to someone 
 looking for a new experience on the 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phundude
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Its amazing to run up to any building and climb it, any building. im not making that up. Its amazing 
 at what you can do in this game, and the graphics are some of the best on a console yet
  
  yeah the AI is weak, and the game gets frustrating at times, especially early in the game when 
 your not really sure what to do.... but once you get a few hours in youll really appreciate how 
 massive this game really is. Not massive in an oblivioun sense, where you can play this game for 
 a hundred hours... but your total freedom is simply mindboggoling
  
  It does appear that this game is probably not finished in the way that the developers wanted, but 
 with pressure to get it out by christmas, this is the best they had to offer. and its still really 
 really good. I have a feeling future sequels will recieve higher critical rankings
  
  and lastly, the controlls. they are fluid and smooth. the only problem is sometimes the camera 
 gets a little off, especially when your running from the enemy and it leads to missed jumps and 
 other annoyances 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianlouk
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, and for the first hour or so it seems like a pretty cool game. But then 
 you get into the bulk of the gameplay, and it's just basically one 10min swordfight after another. 
 The story is great, and the assassin idea would be cool, but the swordfighting is really about 
 95% of the game. And just when I thought that the game was finished, it went off into another 2hour 
 sword-capade with a boss at the end. And them when you finish that fight there's ANOTHER. It just 
 never ends. Just simply terrible gameplay. The story would make a great sci-fi movie, and I'm sure 
 that eventually it will be, but I found the game to be so boring that I just cringed every time 
 that I was noticed by a guard and had to pull out the old sword. And you kind of have to finish 
 the game, which takes about 20 hours, because nothing will make any sense until the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACiDbaby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Before I even started playing the game, I already had the preconceived notions that this is just 
 going to be another one of those open-ended games that takes place during the times of the Third 
 Crusade, where I run around sneaking and killing people. Teasers for the game showed just that, 
 but from time to time a weird high-tech looking visual glitch effect would appear. I didn't think 
 much about it at the time. The odd juxtaposition of the futuristic and an Ancient world is only 
 a tiny hint of something deeper going on, and that there's more than meets the eye in this game.
 
  
  Once I started playing, the mystery behind those effects were soon revealed To me, this experience 
 was like a revelation. This realization made the game into something much bigger than I had expected, 
 leaving me all the more intrigued and eager to see how the story will unfold.
  
  The visuals in this game are stunning. I was in awe of the view you get from the top of a view-point 
 in one of the cities. From the top of a view-point, you're surrounded by a spectacular view over 
 a huge city which really puts in perspective that you're just one speck in a vast world that's 
 just waiting to be explored. I find it pretty neat that I can pick practically any building/area 
 that I can see in the distance and know that I can actually go there to that actual building, looking 
 just the way it did from way in the distance as it does up close and in person.
  
  They did a great job designing the control scheme in the game. Highly intuitive, at no point did 
 I ever feel the controls to be too complicated or difficult to execute. At no point did I ever 
 feel frustrated with any of controls, and performing all the various actions was practically like 
 second-nature to me. 
  
  No multiplayer features in this game, but there's still a good amount of replay value. There are 
 plenty of side-missions and game achievements not related to the main story that's guaranteed to 
 keep you busy for many, MANY hours! Scattered throughout are over 400 hidden flags to collect, 
 and 30 Templars just waiting to taste your blade. All you game perfectionists out there will be 
 relieved to know that even after you finished the game, you can still go back to any chapter to 
 complete whatever achievements you might've missed. Although, I know there are at least 2 achievements 
 that can only be unlocked by doing specific things at certain times throughout the entire game. 
 Unfortunately, those opportunities can only be accessed during the normal course of playing through 
 the game, so going back to replay chapters won't work. If you really want to get those achievements, 
 I recommend saving those for last because the only way to get them if you missed it the first time 
 around is to start a new game and do it all over again. Just so you know, you can only save one 
 game per gamer profile Which means starting a new game will make your current game go poof.
  
  Quite honestly one of the best single-player games I've played in a while. BUY IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora1609
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  First off all before I start rating the game I want you to knowmy ratings are very hard on the 
 game, if it does'nt please my desires my ratings are going to be harsh.
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Okay, the gameplay is great. Assingning controls for a specific part of the 
 body is unique, its risky, but Ubisoft does it!
  
  Graphics-10/10
  
  One word-Beautiful. Okay mabye not one word. The graphics are splendid. The shadows, the textures, 
 ther'ye all just right!
  
  Sound-10/10
  
  I'm not really big on sound, but yeah, the sound is great!
  
  Value-Must Buy
  
  Though 
 the game is relatively short, you still just have to buy it. As, I always say-short and sweet.
 
  
  Overall-10/10
  
  Just perfect!
  
  Random Word  monkey jargon vargin largin dargin shargin varfgin 
 larsetoanhgfdaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed, the greatest joy comes from the smallest details, and for every nerve-racking 
 battle, there's a quiet moment that cuts to the game's heart and soul. Climbing towers to uncover 
 portions of the map is a simple mechanic but forever satisfying, thanks to the beautiful vistas 
 and soft musical themes that accompany the view. Even the drunks that pester you are amusing and 
 fun, though their constant shoving is more than annoying, especially if you are trying to pickpocket 
 a pedestrian or eliminate a target without a fuss. It all makes your missions that much more compelling, 
 and you'll be inclined to explore every nook and cranny and take on every optional task, just for 
 the fun of it. There's a ton of stuff to do, and even when you've exhausted your official tasks, 
 you can search for the collectible flags and crosses strewn around the cities and countryside. 
 You could probably plow through the main quest in 20 hours if you're lucky, but completists might 
 spend close to 50 hours finishing every quest and gathering every collectible. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: docjizzle
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game features the same rap over and over. Nothing exciting about new missions and a very very 
 lame plot line. This game was not worth the money, nothing but a bunch of hype..... I can't even 
 describe how boring this game was. Once I figure ti out and got to a certain point, there was absolutely 
 nothing new or anything to look forward to in this piece of crap game. Most overrated game in history!!! 
 I hate 100 words. I hate Assassin's Creed and I really hate how everyone at my video game store 
 said to pre-order this crappy game. I'm glad I didn't because i would be very mad if I waited in 
 line to be bored. This game sucked, I'm sorry. I know a lot of people out there love it but it's 
 just not that fun. The graphics are AWESOME, I will give it that, but it doesn't make up for the 
 fact that you are still seeing the same thing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benWT9000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed the new game from ubi soft, i remembe rlooking forward to this game for ages looking 
 at every trailer that came out everyone making me want it more.
  When i got it i was immeadlity disapointed the storyline was ,well, different this however did 
 get better, You play as Desmund a former assassin and now bartender who has been kidnapped and 
 taken to place where he has no comunication with the outside word. His kidnappers force him to 
 use the animus, a mechine that allowes the user to view his anchetors memouries, to find an achent 
 artiface that they belive to help them make the world a better place, for them. We first see altier 
 in a temple halfway through a mission to get this artifact. He breaks all 3 tennents of the assassins 
 creed on this mission. Do not spill innocent blood, Never make prescence know till after the assassination, 
 and most importantly never compromise the brotherhood. Altier breaks them all and on his return 
 to Al Mulaim is stripped of his rank and wepons. He is given a chance to redeem himself by killing 
 9 men that have cause the hold land to be turned into turmoil.
  The game only really starts on the first assassination mission, at first i didnt have a clue on 
 what to do, but after a few quick climbs of some view point i soon got the hang of it.
  This game is slow to begin with but is so worth it, the first thing that hit me was the grapics, 
 amazing and i love the high and low profile movements. With low profile such as a quick unnoticed 
 stab with the hidden blade, to a jump on top of stab. both getting the job done but leading to 
 different consiqueses. I am not a big fan of the investigate missions but they are done quick and 
 lead up to a fun mission of killing the target in different ways each time.
  Ive just killed the target what do i want next a good chase and in assassins creed you get one 
 the first thing you think is how do i get to here to the beararu in the fastest possible way, the 
 anwser parkour, with this you climb up walls and jump between buildings all to find a hiding place 
 and then back to the beararu to complete the mission. So what do we do now the same again and again 
 and again its all the same it repeats its self 8 times but you dont mind as much as you would normally 
 because its so much fun doing it. you do sometimes go back to desmund in the lab and have to try 
 and unravlled what these guys want. Although some people will find this pointless i think it breaks 
 up the game nicely and if you dont want to do it go to bed and desmund will wake up ready to go 
 in the anumus again but this will leave you thinking ,what???
  The combat oh were to begin, fun as hell it is new and so fun althogh you have to do missions to 
 get the best moves the combat is good the counters are fun and look amazing, so if you can't be 
 bothered to run you can always fight. now aside from the main missions there is .... erm nothing 
 much else to do hunt down all the templers of flags but really that get boring fast best thng to 
 do, try and get 100% other than that may as well start again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomstoner180
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  loved this game, some of the tasks got a little repetitive but I just loved running around the 
 beautiful cities with so much life in them. Great concept for a game and the artwork is second 
 to none.
  Story was great, loved going from ancient city to city and just ruining guards the whole way. The 
 stealth elements were great, reminded me of prince of persia a little bit but with a lot better 
 graphics and a much better role for the player. I dont think I will ever get tired of throwing 
 peeps off building or hitting unsuspecting guards with throwing knifes haha. The end missions do 
 get kinda tough when you have to do multiple assasination and the streets are crowded with bums 
 and beggars, but if it wasnt tough i would be complaining it was too easy. Overall great game, 
 rent if you want I bought it and dont regret it at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoAFie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Overall ideas:
  
  Well the story kicks right off blowing one of the biggest secrets in the game. You start the game 
 off sort of as Altair an elite assassin. But not really as a scifi twist you are Desmund Miles, 
 some guy that is looking back in time to help a medical company take over the world because he 
 got teh kidnapped. You've been careless on one of your missions and get demoted. You get a bit 
 of "Metroid" syndrome out of Assassin's Creed as your weapons are taken away and you have to obtain 
 them once again. Weapons and stuff is alright to take away, but please explain this to me. How 
 can you take away my ability to counter attack. WTF? Do the Assassin's have the ability to take 
 away knowledge from you? Anyway speaking about combat, the combat is okay when you get near the 
 end (sort of) . But in the beginning it's really frustrating try to hit these combos where you have 
 to hit the buttons right on as your sword hits. Sure it seems simple in concept, but when you are 
 fighting with 7 guards surrounding Altair, the last thing you want to try and do is try and hit 
 oddly timed hits to kill enemies. In fact once you get counter attack there's no point in being 
 aggressive and changing your attack pattern. Literally all you have to do is sit there holding 
 the block button and wait as one by one every guard attacks you. Then you counter and it's almost 
 always an instant kill. Even if the enemy isn't killed, the foe is knocked on the ground (basically 
 helpless) as you swing at him with your sword to kill him in 2 swings. The game does a nice job 
 with the tutorials and help you (try) to master the combat system which you can go back and replay 
 if you ever want to master those annoying combo kills. Anyway enough whining about the annoying 
 part of the game and lets talk about the fun part of the game which there is plenty of.
  
  The game for the most part is FUN. Don't get me wrong by my previous paragraph this game is by 
 no means a bad game, it's just the combat is to me flawed. The bulk of the game isn't fighting 
 though (until the end) but rather running around on rooftops and assassinating evil guards and 
 men. This is FUN. The controls in Assassin's Creed are pretty well done for the most part. The 
 game introduces a "puppeteer" control system where you can control the head with Y (this allows 
 you into a first person mode which you can use to see guards, assassination targets, and other 
 useful folks) , the hands with X and B (X is for assassinating folks and combat and B is for tackling 
 and grabbing folks) , and A is for feets (blending and sprinting) . The game also feature two modes. 
 One mode is stealthy Altair where you can blend in with crowds and walk past guards without them 
 whining. Fast Altair can run up buildings and sprint and do things that piss guards off. The controls 
 for this are pretty well thought out and with exceptions are good. You don't have hit A every time 
 you want to jump. You just hold R and you can free step to wherever you need to go. However climbing 
 a bunch of boxes and trying to do this can be annoying and I've had some errors where I couldn't 
 climb somewhere I was supposed to be able to get too. It's not too bad because usually there is 
 another way to get up there. But when I have a bunch of crusaders throwing stones at the back of 
 my head I found it to be quite annoying. Speaking about crusaders trying to do ungodly things to 
 you one of the funnest things to do is escaping from guards. Having a high speed chase on a rooftop 
 is something never stops being fun in Assassin's Creed. In order to escape guards there are 3 ways. 
 One is to kill them all and then you return to your regular anonymous self. Two is finding some 
 place to hide once you get out of the guards sight (which is shown near your health) which is probably 
 the funnest way to end the fight even if it's the hardest. The third (and annoyingest) is to leave 
 the city. Although this is really not fun to try to get back into the city once you leave you have 
 to go back on your horse and reenter the city... which is really really really annoying. In order 
 to piss off the guards enough to chase you there are a couple of ways. One is pretty
  obvious and that would be using any violence with weapons. They don't care about fist fights apparently. 
 However it is extremely annoying trying not to kill some people. You get these drunks that run 
 up and push you and they always do it at the worst of places. Like near water (which Altair is 
 an elite assassin that trains in every single thing... but can't swim lmao) . Or near a bunch of 
 pissed off guards looking for any trouble. Then I stab the guy with my blade (and lose like half 
 my health b/c you aren't supposed to kill innocents... innocent my ass when he tried to drown me 
 like 40 times) and all of the guards run up and start stabbing me. What the hell. Another way to 
 piss off guards is moving really fast. Now on foot I can totally understand when there are a **** 
 of people and some dudes running insanely fast knocking people down... and then getting shot. But 
 when you are on a **** horse the point is to move fast. But if you go any faster than a snails 
 pace around guards on a horse they'll cut your horses legs and then maul you. WTF? So eventually 
 I said **** it and just galloped as fast as possible to every city out running all the guards. 
 There are other minor things you can do like punching beggars (fun) and causing jar carriers to 
 drop their jars... and popping them in the face when they **** about it.
  
  I'll talk a bit about how each mission basically starts out with. You sit in a room listening to 
 your master which is unskipable. You then go down talk to the weapons dude to master any new (technically 
 old) moves you have learned. Then you go down into the assassin's town and run down the mountain. 
 Every time. Although this can be fun if you look for the hidden flags every time you go down... or 
 kill your own guards... love doing that. Then you get on a horse and ride down into the crossroads. 
 From there you look on your map and ride toward whatever town you have to go too. After trotting 
 down to the town (you have too otherwise the guards think it's too suspicious that you are riding 
 a horse and you are faster then them... jealous pricks) you have to then enter the city because 
 for whatever reason they have a line of armed guards not letting anyone in or out of the city (wtf?) . 
 There are a couple ways I found to do this. One just going above there heads and then pointing 
 and laughing as you land behind them. Two is killing them (my favorite since they are complete 
 dicks) . Three is getting some hippies... I mean scholars to let you in. Four is to kill some random 
 smuck and when the guards go to investigate walk in while they are gone. All work pretty well. 
 After all that and you still haven't gotten your mission. Then you have to climb one of the many 
 view points in the city and look to update your map. I have a bit of a bone to pick with view points, 
 almost all of them are the **** same! I mean which one was your favorite one to climb, the fort, 
 the church, the spire thing, or regular tower. Granted there are a couple of unique ones like a 
 lighthouse but there are 91 of the things! How many times do you want to climb the same tower? 
 It even wouldn't be so bad if they changed the design of the building at least but seriously every 
 spire tower looks the same with the same tiles in the same place. What the hell. Anyway afterwards 
 you can take a leap of faith (one of the coolest things in Assassin's Creed) where you jump of 
 the building and land in some hay. Apparently the middle east has a **** of hay too because there 
 are haycarts around every corner (not that I'm complaining when I can do kick ass leaps of fate) . 
 After all of that you go up into the Assassin's Bureau and talk to the guy with another unskippable 
 cutscene. I wouldn't mind it so much if they weren't so long and if I could skip them after watching 
 them once like in Conker. But no of course not. Anyway after that you go around town looking for 
 any leads on your target and there are a number of ways to do so. For one you can eavesdrop on 
 a person which is basically sitting in a bench listening to some **** talking (by far the easiest 
 task) . For two you can pickpocket information from some **** (also easy) . For three you can interrogate 
 some **** and put your fist to their face but with the combat system it makes it sort of annoying. 
 For four you can talk to one of your **** assassin friends and they send you around town collecting 
 flags and killing guards. These tasks repeat themselves throughout the whole game and they never 
 get old as long as you just don't always do eavesdrop and pickpocketing all the time (wussies =P) . 
 After getting enough information you can then get to the fun **** part of the game. You then from 
 the Bureau go to the targets area. Now depending on the situation you can choose how to get into 
 the area which is also fun. Instead of getting stabby I actually enjoyed sneaking on the rooftops 
 and dropping into the area. You then go into another unskippable cutscene but that's fine because 
 at least in these cutscenes someone almost always dies (or gets their legs broken =D) . After that 
 you have to sneak past the guards and assassinate your victim which is always fun as hell. After 
 they die you get another long unskippable cutscene that is boring again cause there is no more 
 stabbing. Something I didn't get while I was watching this is why while the **** were blabbing 
 on about their life story a guard didn't come up behind me and stab me in my back. But anyway after 
 that cutscene you have to make a getaway from the guards by either killing them or by escaping. 
 After having fun with that you go back to the Bureau hiding from every guard you pass and then 
 guess what? You go through another long and unskippable **** cutscene. Damnit. I want to talk briefly 
 about some of the glitches and the AI in this game. There are some glitches in the game. They aren't 
 nessassarily as bad as Mass Effect but there are definitely some annoying ones. Like I mentioned 
 before there are occasionally points where I should be able to climb to but can't and have to find 
 other ways around or drop down. Also there are some glitches with the bonus missions. For example 
 I killed a Templar (I'll talk about bonus missions in the next paragraph so skip down a bit if 
 you want to look) and for whatever reason it didn't count it and I double checked it. That's bull. 
 I was 37 templars in and now I have to start a new game to get that one because of a glitch. That 
 also happened to me with a flag. I was a 100% sure I grabbed all the flags in the Hospital district. 
 I went on youtube and gamespot and all that **** **** I even bought the $20 strategy guide for 
 the game but I still couldn't find the flag. I'm pretty sure it was a glitch that caused it seeing 
 as I wasted 5 hours searching for the damn thing. Anyway I'm sure these glitches will be patched 
 soon (or lets just say I'll be paying Ubisoft a visit) and the issue will be resolved. The AI can 
 be horribly, horribly retarded at times. Seriously. I can walk up behind some guard. Then stand 
 there in blend right on top of the dead body, a guard will run up and shout "WHO DID THIS!" then 
 I will just walk up behind him and stab him in the back until I kill all of the guards. It's retarded. 
 Then when you are in combat they will completely surround you with 12 to 1 and then take turns 
 attacking me. At which point I laugh and counterattack them. But when I attack someone they go 
 oh hell no! They grow some balls and attack me in the back. WTF? So apparently it's less frightening 
 to attack someone attacking another person with a sword then a guy holding still. W/e.
  
  There are also a couple of bonus tasks you can undertake for achievements and for aiding yourself. 
 One of the bonus tasks that is probably the most benifcial is helping random people that are getting 
 mauled by thugs. Most of the time this means combat unless if you have throwing knives (AKA instant 
 kill) . Once you save the sad ****s they either gather scholars (a moving cover through guards or 
 a hiding spot) or vigilantes (they hold guards) . Both are useful but I'd recommend saving the scholar 
 ones if you feel like a minimalist. You can also go around going on the viewpoints which are useful 
 seeing missions and save civilians. Again they repeat each other a lot so get used to climbing 
 the same spire over and over. You also can go on a templar killing spree which will net you a 40 
 point achievement. Other than that there isn't too much reason to do so and there is a glitch I 
 experienced where I killed a templar and it didn't count. Finally if you are extremely bored you 
 can find all of the flags. There are 20 in the assassin's city and 100 in every city and in the 
 kingdom. Again unless if you really want the 1,000/1,000 I wouldn't waste too much time with them 
 even with a guide.
  
  Overall the game is pretty easy and you shouldn't have any trouble difficulty wise... until the 
 end. In the end they took everything that made the game sweet and sort of threw it down the toilet... then 
 threw a pipebomb in the pipe... and then feed the leftovers to my dog. Seriously. All of the last 
 part of the game is combat. Which normally wouldn't be so bad if there weren't **** archers around 
 shooting you in the back while I'm trying to fight some chick and her 60 troops. Overkill much.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  I'm usually not one to judge a game based of it's graphics... and I'm still not. But I will say 
 the graphics in this game are amazing. The cities look rich and nice. Hell even my friend who said 
 Halo looked like **** was amazed by the detail in this game. You don't have too much of a problem 
 with everyone looking too alike and the models are sweet. Hell even repetitive as **** view points 
 looked sweet... even after the 43rd time climbing the damn thing. Where you can see the beauty the 
 most is on top of the view points. Then the eagle jump afterwards is sweet. Again I'm not much 
 to dwell too much on the graphic so I won't touch too much into it but you have to see the game 
 to believe it.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is decent in the game. However the beggars are annoying as all hell. If they meant for 
 it to be that way then good job... cause it worked and made me throw every beggar I saw into a river. 
 The sound in the cutscenes is good I sort of wish they had subtitles as an option though because 
 I hate trying to hear them when I'm playing at night and my families asleep. It's annoying.
  
  Achievements:
  
  The achievements for the most part are simple enough in concept. Kill 
 50 guys by killing them with combo attacks, throwing knives, and counterattacks. Then there's the 
 completing the bonus missions thing like saving all the civilians, killing all the templars, climbing 
 all the viewpoints, and finding all the flags. 2 things, one finding the flags is annoying and 
 2 the glitches make this annoying to do without venting your frustration and destroying the TV 
 (at least for me) . Then there are the story ones. Then are the fun achievements like run away from 
 guards for 10 minutes straight and take on 25 guys at once. For a complete list check out on of 
 the stickies in the Assassin's Creed forum.
  
  Playability and Replayability:
  
  The game is definitely playable and fun. As I've proved in the like 3 page summary before this. 
 The only frustrating thing is the combat, all the missions to get to the killing, and some minor 
 glitches. The running around and stuff great and works pretty well. How much enjoyment you get 
 out of the game is up to you. You could easily blow thorough Assassin's Creed in like 6 or 7 hours 
 but that wouldn't be FUN. You have to sit down and enjoy running thourough the city doing random 
 **** or you aren't going to have FUN which is what I feel a lot of reviews did when they were reviewing 
 the game...*cough* IGN *cough*. If you go throughout the game choosing all of the brainless tasks 
 you aren't going to have fun. And if you don't read everything that you can as far as extras in 
 the story you aren't going to understand the ending (although I still don't understand a part of 
 it to be fair) .
  
  As far as how much you can replay the game is up to the player. If you want to go around looking 
 for flags and hidden **** your in for replay mania! If you aren't you might want to replay it a 
 couple of times to see storyline stuff that you might have missed or kill more people. However 
 there's no denying that Assassin's Creed will probably have an expiration date on your console.
 
  
  FINAL REVIEW:
  
  Story: 8 b/c of the ending and unskippable cutscenes
  Gameplay: 8.5 combat is bearable but annoying and there some minor glitches
  Graphics: 9.5 **** 
 amazing
  Sound: 8.5 beggars are t3h annoying
  Replayabillty: 7.8 there's nothing too much to go back for besides extra flags and templars
  
 Achievements: 9 there are some pretty fun ones tho go for.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  The Good: Awesome gameplay as far as platforming goes. Fun assassinations. Beautiful graphics. 
 Just a very creative game that is nice to see as apposed to all the FPSs.
  
  The Bad: Unskippable cutscenes that I have to watch even after I beat the game. Repetitive viewpoints 
 and sometimes investigation missions. Combat sucks except countering system which make Altair a 
 god.
  WTF: Crawled up IGN's butt and died?
  
  Other last words:
  
  I just have to say seriously. IGN considers this one of the top 5 disappointing games? I can give 
 them 5.
  
  Vampire Rain
  Splinter Cell Double Agent
  Shadowrun
  Hour of Victory
  Halo 3 (as far as disappointments)
  
  IGN needs to chill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelratliff
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The story is amazing for an action game and the combat is hard enough to be satisfying when you 
 get that cool kill animation. You get rapped up into it and don't want to stop playing. This was 
 my favorite game from one of the greatest holiday seasons I've seen to date. I definitely recommend 
 this game for anyone. You will get pulled in and fight wave after wave of enemies. After playing 
 I was excited about what this studio could do. I had heard a lot of hype abut Prince of Persia 
 but never actually played it. After seeing Assassin's Creed, I understand why everyone is on pins 
 and needles for this studio's next release. The flags offer an odd bonus in the game, but trust 
 me, if you find EVERY flag in the Kingdom, you will more than likely have a small celebratory dance. 
 Any mature gamer can play this and more than likely tell everyone they know about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Story: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Tilt: 7
  Value: 7
  
  In the gaming world there are a couple of different game types that you will notice. There are 
 games that have some of the most mediocre graphics of its time but deliver in every other category. 
 Then there are the games that have gorgeous visuals but seem to fail in one or more of the other 
 categories. Assassin's Creed resembles the likes of the latter. That doesn't mean that the game 
 isn't worth playing, because it is.
  
  The story isn't as mind blowing as Ubisoft probably hoped it would be  with all that cover up 
 and such that they did for so long. Basically it's modern day, and a medical corporation that has 
 found out how to recover your ancestor's memories through the use of your DNA has abducted you. 
 All they need to do, and demand you do so, is to slap you on what is called an Animus. The Animus 
 is what allows you to live out your ancestor's memories, and thus make the game possible. From 
 there you take the role of Altair  an assassin that lived during the time of the Crusades (roughly 
 the year 1191) . From the start of the game you are stripped of your rank and weaponry after a mission 
 goes awry, and you are forced to assassinate nine men to recover the respect of your peers, your 
 rank, and of course your weapons. In between the odd killing you will be brought back to the present 
 and control Desmond long enough to walk to a bed and sleep (everyone needs sleep, even the distant 
 relative of assassins) . However, you will spend the vast majority of your time in the shoes of 
 Altair. You will go on a journey that gets repetitive quickly as you go collect information in 
 the same ways (eavesdropping, interrogation, pick pocketing, informants) every time before getting 
 permission from the local Assassin's Bureau to actually kill one of the nine. You can also save 
 some citizens from the guards, and in return you will be aided in the form of thugs, which hold 
 the guards at bay the next time you're running from them and are in the area. All of these things 
 are made easier to find by getting to high points in the cities. See that eagle in the sky? Go 
 climb that building that it's flying around and have a look around before you go on your information 
 hunting  it makes life easy. Oh, and you also get to jump off said buildings into conveniently 
 placed piles of hay (if you ask me, no amount of hay will stop your body after dropping nine stories 
 but that's just me) .
  
  Since we are dealing with the times of the Crusades, you will be spending a lot of time in the 
 Middle East. Specifically, you will be enjoying the sights that Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre. 
 Masyaf is also in there, but is basically your hub of operations  the location of the Assassin's 
 Guild. In between each of the towns you will travel through what is called the Kingdom which is 
 basically just the world outside of the towns with predefined paths that allow you to get from 
 place to place without much confusion via horseback. 
  
  It is of course quite obvious from the get-go that Assassin's Creed is a great looking game. With 
 the time period it's set in, the developers had some serious work ahead of them since the architecture 
 of the period can get quite intricate. They did an awesome job though, and in the end, made one 
 of the better-looking games of 2007. The buildings are spot on, the lighting is fantastic, and 
 the character models are also very well done. You can, however, tell that this is an Ubisoft developed 
 game when you take notice of the gestures of the NPCs. For some reason, a lot of games published 
 by Ubisoft tend to take superfluous hand gestures to the next level. This is fine though as it 
 only shows up in the NPCs that are least important  those who have any actual significance are 
 a little more toned down and realistic in their movements. When you take in the art direction, 
 the technical prowess and the two melded together, you have one truly magnificent looking game. 
 The only hitch in the graphical department is the odd time you will see some harsh clipping. This 
 usually only happens when fighting close to buildings and isn't noticeable otherwise.
  
  Assassin's Creed is, for obvious reasons, heavily reliant on its combat and movement around the 
 places you will be gracing your presence with, and for the most part they nailed it. The big selling 
 point of the game from the time the first trailer was shown was the ability of Altair to be the 
 ancient version of Spider Man, sans web slinging. This is the heart of the game, and is what makes 
 it as fun as it can be. The controls are the perfect combination of interaction and autopilot for 
 what feats you will be pulling off. For what it's worth, this portion of the game will never really 
 get old. Running from the 5-0 of the 12th century has never been so thrilling. 
  
  Of course, when you do on occasion get stuck in a corner, or just feel like committing acts of 
 guard genocide, being able to use a blade or two is a good idea. The combat system is well mapped 
 to the controller and won't get you too confused when you're in the fray. In the beginning you 
 don't have any special attacks to help you out but by the middle of the game you will have an arsenal 
 of moves under your belt. The most useful of these is the counter attack. The problem is, it makes 
 the game a tad too easy. If you have even the slightest bit of timing in you, wiping hordes of 
 enemies from existence is a cakewalk. When you first see the achievement for winning 100 battles 
 in a row your first reaction is probably going to be "Holy #@%$ !" but then when you get the counter 
 attack ability you will randomly see the achievement pop up. Again, your response will probably 
 be "Holy #@%$ !" Luckily though, the animations that come out of the special attacks are all brutal 
 and completely awesome to watch over and over again. If you get bored seeing Altair chop a guy 
 in the neck and then remove his sword by kneeing the person in the face well you're obviously 
 not hip or with it.
  
  The downside other than the ease of combat is how Ubisoft set up the difficulty curve. You will 
 blissfully walk through the entire game until you land yourself in the middle of the last two missions 
 and ending sequences of the game. Normally you would figure a game would get progressively harder 
  this is not the case with Assassin's Creed. I can see it now, the meeting of the minds, and someone 
 says, "You know, wouldn't it make life easier on us if we just threw in more drunks and beggars 
 in the streetoh and make random guards God-like?" Nothing will cause an ulcer to grow faster than 
 walking down a street and seeing a drunk or two walking towards you. It will cause such illness 
 due to noticing them not pay attention to anybodyuntil they see you. Then their eyes almost explode 
 as they start rambling on and move towards you. In a fit of uber-drunkness, they then push you 
 violently for no reason. This wouldn't be so bad if it wasn't always right in the middle of a group 
 of guards, which you inevitably hit and then have to wade through with your blade. Of course, the 
 beggars only get in your way, which again  not so bad, but they are the only people you cannot 
 brush off with the B button
  
  Speaking of those beggars, if it isn't the path blocking that annoys you, it will be their voices 
 and repetitive dialogue. It would have been nice to see some diversity in the voice acting for 
 the citizens of each town, but apparently everyone has one of three voices pitches due to what 
 seems to either be inbreeding or a bad throat infection. When you have hundreds of NPCs around 
 you, all spewing the same lines and in the same voice, it really nags at you and makes you wonder 
 why they couldn't have mixed it up a bit more. Luckily, the important characters have great voice 
 acting behind them, and lends to the story very well. Altair has a couple of weak moments where 
 the voice acting is poor, but on the whole, it's done very well.
  
  As for the rest of the audio department, well, it's average. The music won't get you very hyped 
 or on edge during the times you would hope it tosay, like when you're about to take someone's 
 life. The sound effects are pretty solid though, and do a great job of making you believe you did 
 in fact just slice the back of that dudes knee.
  
  In the end, Assassin's Creed is a slightly above average gameplay experience wrapped in a very 
 pretty package. The monotony of the missions and side quests will be ever so slightly enhanced 
 by the exploration experience and cool battle animations. Unfortunately, some annoyances toward 
 the end that ultimately lead up to a disappointing conclusion might leave a slightly bitter taste 
 in your mouth (In the end, it all comes down to seeming like an altered version of "The Da Vinci 
 Code.") . You will more than likely not play the game more than once through, and if you have the 
 gumption to go and collect the plethora of flags that they have set before you for extended play, 
 then you probably have more patience than most people. There doesn't seem to be much room for Xbox 
 Live downloadable content expansion, and so you will probably have to patiently wait for Assassin's 
 Creed 2 to get any more of your Creed on. Unless you will die without having an action/adventure 
 game in your collection, the better choice would be to rent Assassin's Creed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: map1273
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing it I thought it was a pretty cool game. After I finished the first 
 mission and went on yo the second I started to feel deja vu. It basically was the same as the first 
 except a different locale and different target. I thought maybe that would change the more I played. 
 Nope, more of the same all through to the end. It got very boring after a while. For a few weeks 
 I couldn't force myself to play anymore. Finally 2 weeks ago I told myself to finish it so I could 
 get rid of it and I did. Yawwwn !
  On the positive side, the graphics are exceptional, the controls are good, and 
  it has an intriguing 
 story line
  that got better the farther I got. The story is the only thing that kept me playing, I wanted to 
 know what was going to happen and then they give me a crappy cliffhanger ending that makes no sense. 
 UGGHHH ! Now if I want to know what will happen I will have to force myself to play through more 
 of the same in the sequel. Not sure if the story was that good though. We'll see, hopefully the 
 sequel will be different with more diversity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Putzwapputzen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was simply amazing. It reminded me of another Ubisoft game Prince of Persia. Assassins 
 Creed proves to be another great new innovative game that one can play on the 360. The gameplay 
 is unheard of, allowing gamer to virtually go anywhere. When i say this i mean it, anything that 
 looks like it is able to be climbed, it is. The word boundary has no meaning to this game. Assassins 
 Creed intergrates full out battle scenes to espionage where you have to sneak around obstacles 
 (whether moving or not) to reach your goal. This game has many side quests, but the main quest 
 alone has many hours of gameplay. Assassins Creed is a wonderful story that you should definitely 
 buy to find out and see for yourself. There are many types of features that make this game really 
 unique. There are horses that one may ride to increase travelling time, however being on a horse 
 descreases ones stealthiness, so you have to be careful. There are an array of weapons such as 
 a long sword, short sword, throwing knives, and the legendary hidden blade specifically meant for 
 assassinations. This game is truly amazing and does not fall short of its ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macius
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I'll begin with the graphics of the game. 
  The game is presented really well when it comes to technicallities and view. It's great that you 
 can climb to the top of anything and start spinning your camera around you while everything moves 
 smoothly around and beneath you. Everything looks crisp and amazing. The appearance of this game 
 is astounding and break taking when going at great speeds off a structure. 
  The game itself when thinking about it logically is not that good. I cannot stress enough how repetitive 
 the game is. I played through the game getting all the missions within the cities and i saw myself 
 doing the EXACT samething in different areas. Go find this, go collect thirty flags because a member 
 of your tribe doesnt like you or Alu Allym wants to test you out to see if you are doing well, 
 save the commoner from about seven rapists who stand the exact same way in every soon-to-be rape 
 scenario until you get there. You can stand ontop of a structure and watch them do the exact samething 
 to the person and nothing happens to them..... so it's bland in the view of side missions. 
  Story itself doesnt do a great job presenting itself. I found myself try to get my attention off 
 of the cut scenes due to them being pretty bad, though nice graphics. It seemed to me that i kept 
 doing the same thing over and over. Yes you are an assassin and yes you are supposed to kill but 
 i would like it if there were ACTUAL obstacles in the way that didnt take me a couple seconds to 
 get around or climb over. So, your main guys you chase down die so damn easily. The game doesnt 
 require any special degree of game playing experience to beat. I won't lie and say it's complete 
 horrendous piece of work cause it's not. The cut scenes required a bit more thought. When you are 
 in the rel world the cut scenes were dread full and i wanted to skip it entirely but you have to 
 listen to the old man..... your main character also doesnt really find himself panicking to a logical 
 point. He's been kidnapped and he doesnt know what he's even doing but all of a sudden YOU the 
 player are the character doing absolultly everything your guy denies. Murder and stealth.........
 
  Gameplay is really fun. Going sword on sword can be difficult at points but that is only if you 
 go on the offensive. Within the game you can use what is known as counter-attack which is pretty 
 much what it sounds like. You wait with your weapon out for someone to attack and you press the 
 buttons and you kill right away with a cool move. Though it looks cool and he does some insane 
 stuff which still contridicts you character it gets also repetitive after a while when you keep 
 defending yourself. Climbing up structures and jumping is really fun, no limits really. Which is 
 what makes the game good and not bad. Gameplay is fun. Combat mechanics i dont complain about and 
 movement and possibilities are incredible. This game is sort of similar to Spider-man 2 just with 
 better graphics, movement however, same deal with repitition. That cannot be stressed enough. If 
 you like side missions and doing the samething over and over then this game is right for you. However, 
 if you are looking for something more in-depth and that will keep you on the edge of your seat 
 due to an intense story ad twists then it is better for you to rent this game. This game could 
 have been the best game of 2007 if more thought was put into it. Good game but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excileEVK
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is and action adventure game from Ubisoft, it uses the game engine which was first 
 developed for the extremely successful Prince of Persia series. Having said that it does not have 
 the same feel of the Prince of Persia games, it instead replaces it with a much more enjoyable 
 gaming experience. The games storyline is a little complex to understand, but not as much as other 
 reviews have led me to believe. I will try to give a clear outline of the storyline without giving 
 anything away. You play as Desmond Miles; a bar-tender who is an assassin from the future, from 
 what I can work out the game is set in the year 2012. Desmond has been kidnapped by a pharmaceutical 
 company, Abstergo Industries, which is testing out a secret new invention called the Animus. The 
 Animus is a DNA encoding machine which can render Desmond's ancestors memories. The scientists 
 at Abstergo Industries target a specific ancestor's memory for reasons which become clear towards 
 the end of the game. Altair is Desmond's ancestor who you play throughout the game, he is an assassin 
 from the past but the year is not specific. 
  
  Obviously something has to go wrong at the beginning which makes the player's task a lot longer 
 and in most cases a lot harder, and Assassin's Creed is no different. Many games have tried and 
 failed using this storyline type and have failed miserably at it (Just look at the Metroid games) 
 but Assassin's Creed does it a lot of justice. When your first put into the Animus, it rejects 
 the ancestor's memory because Desmond's memory isn't in sync with Altair's enough. So you have 
 to start at the beginning of Altair's major task. After Altair screws up an important task he returns 
 to Mayasaf where the assassin's creed is located. He is killed by Al Mualim the creed's master 
 and is "reborn" and is demoted to the lowest rank, again like in other games his loses most of 
 his skills, abilities and weapons and gets them back after he completes an assassination. Al Mualim 
 then sets Altair the task of assassinating 9 people; you can visit 5 different locations in the 
 game Damascus, Jerusalem, Acre, Mayasaf and towards the end of the game Arsuf. The main kingdom 
 splits these different locations up with each location branching off on the map. 
  
  Where you arrive in each city, firstly you have to find a way of getting into the city because 
 the guards do not take too kindly to you being there and will push you back if you try to get past 
 them. This is normally solved by blending in with a group of scholars who slowly lead the way, 
 but this does get a little boring so by the end of the game you will most likely be using brute 
 force to get rid of any of the guards in your way. You are set a number of tasks to complete in 
 each city, and each set of tasks are set in the different district of the city. So by the end of 
 the game you will have explored each district in every city. The games environment is huge; one 
 of the biggest I have seen in a game for a long, so you can imagine how much there is to do. I 
 recommend completing all of the DNA tasks as well as the secondary task like saving citizens from 
 corrupt guards this makes the game a lot easier and you will unlock a lot of achievements at the 
 end of the game.
  
  The graphics are amazing, a good amount of lighting and sharp textures. There are a few minor graphical 
 glitches every now and then but you will really need to concentrate in order to see them. The cities 
 are very lively with thousands of randomly generated characters roaming the city, for the most 
 part of the game the citizens act normally and interact with you or other people. But one thing 
 that annoyed me about the crowds is the beggars and the drunks. The beggars will constantly bagger 
 you for money and will get in your way if you trying to blend in or walking. The drunks are the 
 most annoying though because if you get too close to tem they will shove you out of the way and 
 nearly all the time expose you, so you fail the mission and you have to run away from any guards 
 which can become very frustrating.
  
  The controls are a little complex for most players but once you get the hang of it then controlling 
 Altair will become an enjoyable task. You can climb pretty much anything in the city, jump between 
 rooftops and dive into hay stacks from a great height. The only way I can describe the controls 
 of Altair is using parkour/free running. The animation is very smooth and the game creates a sense 
 of urgency when you are running away from hundreds of guards.
  
  The storyline is brilliant too. Mind you, you do have to be paying a lot of attention to make any 
 sense of what is going on. The only major downfall the game have is its ending, it WILL leave you 
 confused and a little bit ticked off that you have just spent hours completing the game and the 
 ending is no where near satisfying as it should be. My advice is to play the game hoping that there 
 will be a sequel sometime soon.
  
  Score Breakdown:
  
  Graphics: 10/10  Even with the minor graphical glitches.
  Sound: 10/10  Perfect, really does 
 set the mood for the game.
  Gameplay: 9/10  again does really well, fun to play but may leave you a little bit confused with 
 the ending.
  Value: 9/10  You can find this game fairly cheap now, but the RRP (40) is still excellent value 
 for money considering that you get one of the best games in a long time.
  Review's Tilt: 10/10  I loved this game from start to the minute before the end. With the ending 
 aside this game is brilliant. I recommend it to everyone even if you're not particularly a fan 
 of action/adventure games.
  
  Final Score: 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Altair
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting to buy this game since it came out, and I did. The battle scense are in my 
 opinion 'epic'. You can go head strong, and walk the streets sword drawn and battle down any 'threat' 
 that gets in your way and become the feared assassin that everyone runs from or you can go stealth, 
 weapons concealed and nothing more then another face in the crowed and wait for the moment to strike 
 without anyone knowing a thing.
  
  From a game designer point of view, the guards AI is slightly lacking in where if you assassinate 
 someone and "blend" right next to the dead body the guards will not get the picture. As for the 
 kills they are more then easy. Some of the battles get interesting.
  
  The storyline has a very nice build up . . . I refuse to spoil it but the ending did hinder me 
 a bit. Not because it was bad but for other reasons that would give away the ending if I said so 
 I'll move on.
  
  Unlike other games this one has humor in it which adds greatly to the fun. The mobility is awsome 
 . . . except for the 'error' if you're playing the game you know what I mean but if you haven't 
 then the 'error' is when you reach a part of the memory in which is not yet accessed. This means 
 that part of the city is off-limits.
  
  Game was rather quick. So if you are looking for a really long game then this one isn't the one 
 for you.
  
  Overall this game was pure fun. I loved the options of turning off the hud elements. The graphics 
 were perfect.
  
  Word of advice: Enjoy the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwp1138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very straightforward game that, aside from attempting to track down all the 
 little extra points (flags) doesn't require a lot of exploration. Lots of movement, but not a lot 
 of exploration - after you've visited each city for the first time, most of the streets start to 
 look the same and you'll find yourself just blindly following your HUD ('heads-up display') compass.
 
  
  After a while, you'll probably notice that the game is pretty much just "climb all the viewpoints, 
 talk to informant, fist-fight a different informant, sword-fight some soldiers, assassinate the 
 'boss', fight some more soldiers, move to another city quarter, and repeat." 
  
  That being said, the graphics and sounds are beautiful, and the storyline is intriguing. Your character 
 Altair's movements are fluid, and although you may be blindly following your compass, you can have 
 a lot of fun doing it as you leap over rooftops, dive through merchant stalls, and shimmy up walls. 
 The same goes for combat - once you've mastered the basics (especially counter attacks) you'll 
 have a lot of fun forcing combat encounters with the various soldiers and Templars, just to watch 
 the slaughter.
  
  To sum up: a beautiful and fun game that, while too often repetitive, is still well worth owning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  There's undoubtedly no room left after the pretentious pun I used in the introductory line of my 
 review to describe Assassin's Creed - It is artistically accurate and the ultimate portrayal of 
 the age it depicts.
  
  I wonder whether the people of AD 1191 would've ever thought that they would be so magnificently 
 developed and projected in the future with such Zeus-like technology... I for one, never did!
 
  
  It would be sarcastic to remark anything about the gaming elements - Assassin's Creed to me is 
 not just a game or a look at a modified Turning Point in history. It is not just a piece of entertainment, 
 it is a standard! It is art at its finest. It is the portrayal (one of the best at that) of the 
 imperial crusades and it is a downright biography of The Assassin...!
  
  The game will definitely go down as a landmark in the history of entertainment and is a visceral 
 experience no one of you should ever miss... Hail Altair....!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game is totally random. At first, you will have 0 idea of what is going on and you will think 
 this game is totaly werid. But once you get past the tutorial to the first level and you see the 
 gameplay, sounds, graphics and start to understand the whole story. You will think wow. One of 
 the best games ever.
  
  I have absolutly no idea how the people who thoguh up the story for this game managed to think 
 up thw whole idea. Whoever made it must be some smart guy. This game manages to take a big step 
 away from your usual rpg games and take on a totally new idea of gamplay and storyline. 
  
  This game has a great tutorial which will let you understand the controle in just minutes. Accually 
 one of the best tutorials i've ever seen.
  
  This game is umberlievable, a true classic to be remebered thoughout hisotry. There will never 
 be another game like this one, a great idea and perfice in every way. 
  
  Buy it now, no matter how much it is buy it damit buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best stealth/action game out there. Assassin's Creed takes you back to the Third 
 Crusade into the Holy Land and puts you into a great environment with good interactivity.
  
  The Gameplay offers hours of fun, climbing buildings, diving through merfchant stands and jumping 
 off towers into piles of hay all to escape any pursuers that are after you. Even the crowd reacts 
 to your actions, some may even get mad at you and there are always those that like to harass you. 
 The Assassinations are by far the best, as you are given a high value target surrounded by guards, 
 and you must figure out how to kill him without alerting the authorities. The visual effects are 
 great, and I love the feel and vision of the cities being alive.
  
  The bad? Well there is no difficulty setting so anyway who gets really good at the game could take 
 on the whole military camp outside of Jerusalem and win. There is no challenge because half the 
 time you cannot stealth assassinate your target and must fight through some guards to get to the 
 target. But of course that is no challenge.
  
  Great game, just has no challenge. Recommended rent, mabye a buy if you love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kente10
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Me getting assassin's creed has a pretty long story behind it. I thought i was gonna hate it and 
 it was gonna be a stupid prince of persia game with stupid unrealistic abilities and an unoriginal 
 storyline. It took a really good friend of mine to convince me to like it. Finally i gave in and 
 asked for Creed for my birthday. as soon as i started playing it, my jaw dropped... The game was 
 so beautiful and so pure and rich, it had so much detail and even the small things with no meaning 
 became something that looked breathtakingly great. No matter where you are in this game, detail 
 doesnt disappear, whether your right in front of a building or 100 feet away from that building, 
 it still looks breathtaking. First impression seriously is a huge factor in any videogame, and 
 this game happened to pull me into the third crusade as soon as I turned it on.
  
  
  
  This game is based in the third crusade when 9 (real) historical figures seemed to disappear in 
 strange ways. Some were reported to vanish others were reported to be killed. The really cool thing 
 i like about this game, is that they used real history to make the game seem awesome. They played 
 off of this little factor and made one of the most badass characters in videogame history, that 
 badass happens to be Altair 
  (AL-Tee-Air) . Altair is one of the more experienced assassin's in the third crusade. Apparently, 
 altair, being the badass that he is, plays by his own rules and not the Creed. If you didnt know 
 this at first, a creed is a set of rules or a code to go by. Well anyway, Altair is apparently 
 breaking this creed therefore is banished from his experience and must gain all of his high ranks 
 back. to do this, he must assassinate 9 people. these people all have something in common but you'll 
 find out during the game.
  
  
  Now for the storyline. (there will be spoilers but nothing you might not already know)
  
  
 
  So altair is in this third crusade and doing his own thing, however there is more than meets the 
 eye. I'm gonna go all "M. Night Shymalon" on you and throw in a twist. this game is actually put 
 into the future. Your actually a bartender known as desmond miles. He's just some average guy with 
 an average life and not so average ancestors. So he gets kidnapped by this psycho doctor and is 
 being held hostage in this lab with a machine in the middle of it called the ANIMUS. this "Animus" 
 uses genetic memory to find out about previous things that may have happened in the past. Now this 
 "genetic memory" is apparently what you get from your ancestors, this machine takes you into desmond's 
 memories and let's you play as Altair, which is like desmond's great great great great great great 
 great great great grandfather. So thats the twist basically, not too much, but the storyline makes 
 this game 1000 times more fun than it woulda been without this factor.
  
  
  
  The gameplays really great. the controls may take about a half hour or so to fully understand, 
 but other than that its perfect. heres the layout
  
  
  The D-Pad is your weapon select button. the Left trigger allows you to lock onto a target and the 
 right trigger allows you to go into high profile mode... now highprofile enables you to do stuff 
 that you wouldnt see an average person doing. when you hold this in your buttons totally change 
 from acting civil, to acting like an assassin. this trigger enables you to run, jump, climb, and 
 attack. The other controls are pretty simple and dont need much explaining to do. The gameplay 
 is so fun and so pure. altair can do pretty much anything to get around the city... except swim. 
 He can run, climb, jump, and ride on a horse. basically everytime you play, you feel like your 
 playing a new game because the possibilities are endless. the fighting is perfect to, not too complicated 
 and yet so advanced. the counters are so cool they make you wanna keep playing the game and unlock 
 more of them. Frankly, altair has more climbing abilities than spiderman. He can climb pretty much 
 everything and can leap from building to building in no time at all. Anyway, the gameplay is just 
 perfect and shouldnt be changed at all. From throwing knives like a ninja, to slaying people with 
 the infamous hidden blade, this game will never be repetitive. the saying "too much of a good thing 
 is not always good" is totally bull when this game goes into play. Too much of a really good thing 
 is always good and thats exactly what this game brings.
  
  
  
  Overall, this game is just perfect. the only thing i would change is the the cutscene thing cuz 
 you cant skip through them but whatever, the game makes up for everything with its open world style 
 of roming around like the true assassin you are... whether youre on the ground stalking and following 
 your pray, or your on a 5-story building getting ready to jump off and land on your victim while 
 slitting his throat, this game is just phenomenal. Buy it as soon as you can, take it from me, 
 the dude that said he was gonna hate it.
  
  
  Perfect 10, and 2 thumbs up 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a game that actually takes place in two worlds. One takes place in the near 
 future and the other well obviously takes place during the crusades. I'm not going to spoil anything 
 but it makes the story quite interesting. Either that or it can ruin it for you. The story is pretty 
 complicated also but, still very interesting. The graphics are superb. Definitley one of the best 
 graphics of the year! The sound is great also. The city is very lively and the people there are 
 very live. It is a very realistic game. But the gameplay gets very repetitve and you may get tired 
 of it. But once again, the story is so intriguing, you might end up playing just to see what happens 
 at the end. Combat is great too. Sword fighting can be challenging but is still fun. Speaking of 
 the end, the end is very weird and strange. It leaves you with a cliff hanger and from there on, 
 there is definitly going to be a sequel. Here are the pros and cons. 
  
  PROS: Excellent and very well artistic graphics and visual design. City is lively and very real. 
 Sound helps with that. Great yet confusing story line. 
  
  CONS: Bad, confusing, ending that leaves you hanging. Repetitive. Some cliches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The action i Assassins creed is just very mind blowing, and the computer isnt some stupid badly 
 programed guard, they find a way to get to you, and when they find you, they will try to kill you. 
 so sometimes many guards at the same time can be overwelming, but its not so hard until you get 
 to the middle of the game. And dont get me started on the graphics, they are completly amazing, 
 they actually FORCe, assasins creed to be 1 of the best games of 2007. the story is ausome, and 
 the vioce playing is great, and the action in the game is crazy, and once you get the timing right 
 the camra zooms in and shows you alltires great fighting skills . So altogether this is a very 
 very great game. So I give it a 9.5. so stay tuned for my next review, and remember whos the best 
 gamer in the world, yeah thats right me, Cures Mark Chris, the great. So see you later !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinetyNineNives
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you pop Assassins Creed into your Xbox you can tell that one giant leap for gaming 
 has been made. The presentation of the game is absolutely amazing and it stretches the boudaries 
 of what an open world game should be. Assassins Creed is one of the most visually impressive games 
 that i have played, perhaps even more so than Gears of War. I was thouroughly impressed by the 
 way the developers at Ubisoft were able to visually recreate the Holy Land with such attention 
 to detail while not making it feel overwhelming. For the most part you really feel like you are 
 in a living, breathing world. As the game goes on you will begin to hear repeated lines over and 
 over and notice some locations, especailly view points, are exactly the same, but these issues 
 are rendered moot everytime you sit on top of a church tower and gaze over the entire city of Jerusalem 
 or are drawn into the dialogue preceding an assassination. The voice work and sound for the most 
 part are terrific, with only rare exceptions, and the story is, without spoiling it, very interesting 
 and unique.
  Assassins Creed's gameplay also stretches boundaries but at a cost. The free running system is 
 beautifully designed with every leap from building to building and every grasp of a stone looking 
 completely natural and fluid. I have never seen characters animated as well as in Assassins Creed. 
 Battles arent as fresh as the free running but are still interesting. Instead of a hack n' slash 
 which would have been so easy to pull off, the developers opted for a more complex scheme focusing 
 on timing rather than button combinations. Using a "puppetering" control scheme, with each face 
 button mapped to a different part of Altair's body you always feel in control of his motions and 
 never feel overwhelmed. The gameplay is at its best at the end of each memory segment when you 
 must combine Altair's stealthy freerunning and combat to approach and assassinate a target and 
 escape a trailing group of soldiers. Unfortunately, all this innovation comes with a price, and 
 the biggest pitfall off the game: repetition. Essentially, you are tasked with doing the same thing 
 9 times. You are given a target (or targets) which you must assassinate. This requires you to investigate 
 around the city to find information. Easily, this is the most annoying section of the game, requiring 
 you to do pointless tasks such as pickpocketing, eavsdropping, and worst of all, collecting flags 
 within a time limit. This wouldnt have been that bad but you must do it nine times and the tasks 
 never change. Fortunately, the assassinations are fun enough and the story is interesting enough 
 to keep you going.
  Overall, Assassins Creed is a great game and an excellelent start to a series that promises to 
 have one of the best stories in gaming. Hopefully next time, however, the developer will be able 
 to vary up the gameplay and deliver an even more interesting experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaiserWebb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The game uses amazing lighting and atmosphere to bring the world of the third crusade to life and 
 make this beautiful world believable. The scope and scale of this game is amazing with an astoundingly 
 beautiful landscape with animation head and shoulders above anything else on the market.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game sports a very innovated control scheme, basically the face buttons control 
 each part of you're body. A button controls the legs, Y is the your head, X is to control the left 
 arm and B to control right arm and use the shoulder button to do more high profile version of the 
 average action used when pressing A for example, when you usually press it you walk slowly keeping 
 your self in low profile so no one will notice you. When you had the shoulder button while pressing 
 A however you run faster those increasing the awareness that you're in the area. This may sound 
 confusing and awkward but its very intuitive and easy to learn. The gameplay is overall very solid 
 and makes for a very satisfying gameplay experience, only kinda blah point is between each assassination 
 you have to play as another character who I will not mention because I don't wanna deal with mail 
 about saying "You spoiled the game n00b", I will say this sections are tedious boredom and are 
 pretty much a waste of time but its nothing to bad sense these sections are quick and don't kill 
 the game to much.
  
  
  Audio:
  Great music brings the atmosphere of this game to life. The voice acting is amazing truelly bringing 
 each characters to life and every last character, even NPCs, have top notch VO.
  
  Overall:
  One of the most technologically and gameplay wise, impressive games of last year and 
 I must own title for anyone looking for a superb action adventure title.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajarbuckle
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is possibly the greatest action game on the market right now. It puts the player 
 into the shoes of the main character Altair and allows him/her to explore the holy land as it was 
 during the times of the third crusade. The beginning of the game puts Altair in Solomon's tomb, 
 were he fails to get the target assassinated, and loses one of his team mates. Once back at your 
 head quarters, you lose your rank and skills for failing the mission. To earn your rank back, you 
 must assassinate 9 targets for your master...
  After each assassination, you get back a weapon and/or skill that will help you assassinate your 
 target. The weapons system is a combo system were you can press multiple buttons (although when 
 you start playing it will be mostly button mashing) . 
  The story line is very interesting, but the game play gets somewhat repetitive for each target. 
 Even though you might get sick of the game play, you'll beat just to find out how the story ends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimApollo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Having followed this game from trailers and the Ubisoft behind the scenes videos, I cannot believe 
 what a let down this game is. What is more amazing is the fact people are giving this ten out of 
 ten, really is flag collecting that great !! That's not to say there isn't good stuff here the 
 game engine is truly beautiful the animation of the horse and Altair is brilliant. The sword fighting 
 has its moments as well, being surround by five or six enemies and cutting them down with out so 
 much as a scratch is fun for a while, but as its based on counter attacks you learn to wait for 
 them to move and then waiting for five or six enemies to attack is pretty dull.
  Ubisoft have made a great engine here but for me they seem to have run out of ideas, flag collecting 
 and climbing towers is enjoyable at the start but then after you get to the second city I really 
 wanted something more to do. I thought maybe the cities would be more interactive.
  For me its the kind of game you can play for a couple of hours but then your turn it off for something 
 more entertaining. The story is interesting I followed it for a bit then I just seemed to switch 
 off from it and try rush though to get to the next Altair part. 
  So really I am disappointed a game with a great setting, a great engine and animation just nothing 
 to do apart from wonder round and collect flags kill a few people here and there. I will say that 
 I am interested in where Ubisoft go next with this franchise and will I buy the sequel, yes probably. 
 You may think my score is a little harsh, but flag collecting and climbing towers are good ideas 
 for part of a game, not a whole one. For people who gave it 10 out of 10 all I can say is give 
 Crackdown a try lots of stuff to collect and co-op too its excellent fun, if however your playing 
 on PS3 this is probably the best game you're had it months so enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanzigThrall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Too say the least this is a fun game dont get me wrong or anything like that but its just that 
 the game itself repeats everything in the missions and the storyline itself is really predictable 
 and lame and doesnt fit with the setting itself and the ending is horrible and doesnt make sense 
 even with the aweful storyline it doesnt even fit with it. The gameplay is fun even when its repetative 
 but its fun running on the roofs and silently taking guards out and all that good stuff. Its bad 
 in the sense that you can kill a guard in front of another guard and he will be saying "Anyone 
 see what happened here?" Its like "come on man I am right here are you that dumb not to piece it 
 together?" And there are glitches visually as well like bodies spassing out on the ground or people 
 appearing on the roofs and not being able to get down from the roof itself. Now the story itself 
 is just well lets just say its a nice concept and hasnt been done before but it didnt go with the 
 setting cause well I guess its historical and all that stuff and it puts fantasy elements in it 
 and it doesnt fit well together and once you start playing the game itself you know what direction 
 it will be going in because its really predictable as I said before its not hard at all to see 
 where its going.
  But these things dont take it being a fun none the less away from it. I would say give this game 
 a try by renting it and if you like it then buy but dont buy it unless you try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I thought well how good can this game be if it's only single player? Even 
 though I'm not much of an RPG person at all, I think this game is amazing. Once I started playing 
 this game, I just wanted to kill people right away like everyone else wants to do. But as I got 
 into the game and I was motivated, the strategy that plays in this game is a huge part and a wonderful 
 aspect to your decisions. 
  Once you do the leap of faith, you'll just be stunned how awesome it looks. When you synchronize 
 right before you do the leap of faith, the view is absolutely incredible helps you out by showing 
 you where things are right around you. Another way the leap of faith helps is if a bunch of guys 
 are chasing you and you jump up a building to do the leap of faith, you can stay hidden long enough 
 in the hay so that you will become invisible and no one will know where you are.
  Don't get me started with the fight scenes. The fight scenes are unreal and absolutely amazingly 
 realistic. When you're in a fight scene, make sure you do a counter-attack. When you do a counter-attack, 
 it zooms in on your attack while you're doing it and shows you how you are killing the guy. It 
 just looks so sick. The moves the guy does is just nasty not to mention how skilled he is. BUY 
 THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The story goes about your character being kidnapped by a group of secret scientists who work for 
 a lab that's responsible for the most important technological breakthrus of the world. They have 
 kidnapped you because you are a distant genetical heir to Altair, an assassin from the time of 
 the Crusades. The scientists have a machine that can literally read your blood and work through 
 your memories back to those of your ancestors, in this case, it is targeting Altair, for reasons 
 I cannot say without spoiling the story of the game. 
  95% of the time you'll be on the table, and that means you'll be playing with Altair himself, the 
 other 5% of the time happen in between "missions", when the machine super-heats, or you get to 
 tired and you gotta get away from it, when that happens you comeback to the modern world, in the 
 room where the machine lays, and you can explore both this room and your bedroom, here you'll be 
 able to talk to two scientists and also uncover one thing or another which will explain a lot about 
 the corporation that kidnapped you.
  This game could be perfect, but somehow things became quite messed up along the way. It just doesn't 
 play right. You control an assassin, but he sure doesn't act like one, the game will constantly 
 require you to work your way in the most bloody manner in order to achieve your objectives, one 
 would expect a stealth and a behaviour like that of Mr. 47 (Hitman series) or at least Solid Snake 
 (Metal Gear Solid) , instead you have the twisted version of Prince of Persia, walking on walls, 
 killing loads of people to a super-human extent and so on. However this is not what takes the prize 
 away from Assassin's Creed, after a while you end up conforming that it's just a strange action 
 game and not a true stealth/assassination game.
  What will really make you made are two things, let's begin by the worse: gameplay, it's utterly 
 confusing and complex, sometimes you have to keep yourself in "desguise" (he makes as if he was 
 praying...) but you also want to look around for guards and it's almost impossible to reach the 
 buttons, the configuration of control is awful and the gameplay itself isn't much better. This 
 really messes up when your running away, sometimnes you'll want him to jump inside a tent before 
 anyone notices, but instead Altair will hold on the ledge of something, and the time it takes for 
 him to drop and get back inside the tent will be enough for you to be spotted, and have to find 
 a new hidding place.
  Finally, it's extremely repetitive, you're always doing the very same things. You'll go to Jerusalem, 
 Acre or Damascus and search for the bureau (all of them look exatically the same) , in it you'll 
 get some weak info, then you'll go out and climb towers in order to find good viewpoints where 
 you can pinpoint places of interest, then you'll go to those points and retrieve essensial info 
 to the assassination, the places are huge so it's really tiring when you are doing the same thing 
 over and over again, after a while you can come back to the bureau and get the authority for the 
 kill. This is even more frustrating, there're only two ways to kill the target and they are obvious, 
 you either fight till they die, or you hit them with your knife without them noticing. No matter 
 what, chances are you'll be spotted after the kill, and then have to run away; it's not like Hitman 
 where you were actually required to stop and think about your next move, actually learn the steps 
 of the enemy so you could do the hit and leave before anything at all was noticed. No, here you'll 
 eventually have to get your sword and kill everyone, there's no real "art of the kill" here, just 
 a brute disgraceful slaughter.
  After reading all this you must think I'm crazy for giving it 8. Well, despite everything this 
 game is good. There's just no denying the effort put into the construction of the scenario and 
 characters, and the engine itself, everything looks beautiful (though faces aren't the best around 
 when you get upclose) , the cities are unbelievably realistic, and the way things are scattered 
 around is absolutely natural, I mean, it doesn't look at all as if it was "made to be climbed", 
 it looks like a normal tower for instance, and Altair will actually grab on the exact spots a real 
 person would if climbing a tower or a house, or whatnot.
  You have a dagger, a long sword, a sort of a knife (used for professional kills, like the barbwire 
 from Hitman) , and throwing knifs. Sword/dagger fighting is wonderful, with realist counter-attacks 
 that are brutal and efficient, giving a cinematic touch to the game.
  The story begins good enough, not wonderful, but just enough to glue the game together and it goes 
 on pretty well. For some reason, in the end of the game some things happen that are just aggravating, 
 I'm not spoiling, but be ready for a twist that has nothing to do at all with the game's style.
 
  It seems that some things were overlooked in the game in favour of others, those others (rendering, 
 etc.) turned out like masterpieces at least, and the rest though retpetitive and not so good, can 
 be overlooked due to the beauty of the game as a whole.
  All in all, I really don't know if I hate or love the game, I'm sure however that this is a genuine 
 game that everyone must own, like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodeling_halo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  At first when i got this game i didn't know what to expect. However, when i played it, i knew i 
 was in love. Probably the best thing about this game is it's intense plot line. You're a prisoner 
 in modern times, you don't know were you are, and you cant remember how you got there. Strange 
 people are telling you about a machine, so you can see in the past of one of you ancestors, and 
 they're making you do it so they can find something. you have to figure the clues to them out by 
 your self. However at the same time, you're playing as your ancestors. The graphics are just genius. 
 The only few down parts are that, for example, if you kill guards, while some leave from further 
 away to help them, some guards will just watch. The other thing is, the game is a tad easy, not 
 enough for me to sort as 'easy' but the makers should be weary of this. All in all the game is 
 purely geniuseness. Plus this game isn't one of these run-in-and-shoot-everyone unrealistically 
 games. it seems like it could have actually happened, I can't recommend this game highly enough 
 to people who like the game 'Hitman'. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  I would just like to say first off that i loved this game from the moment i started. The graphics 
 and gameplay are completely up-to-date with all of the best games out at the moment on any console, 
 minus a few minor glitches scattered throughout the game.
  
  If you loved, or even had a brief crush on, Ubisoft's first wall-climbing, long-haired, sword-toting, 
 middle-eastern hero, the Prince of Persia, then you will no doubt look up at this game loosly clutching 
 your old tattered version of PoP: The Sands of Time, and immediatly drop it on the floor in favour 
 of its younger, hotter counterpart. 
  
  Assassn's Creed begins with a brief tutorial, just enough information to let you fight the bad 
 guys but still leaving room to find out some of the more advanced moves for yourself. But before 
 you kow it, all your fancy weapons are taken away from you and you're demoted down to the lowest 
 of the ranks and sent on your first mission, to gather information around the village. This introduces 
 you to the ever-present side missions such as pickpocketing and eavesdropping and although these 
 can be a great way of distracting you from the main story-line, i eventually found myself getting 
 bored of doing what appeared to be the same thing in a different surrounding. The real fun factor 
 in AC comes from the sword fighting, and although i thought that Ubisoft would have kept the old 
 PoP fighting style where you basically got to create your own style of sword play (as of Warrior 
 Within) , instead you make use of counter moves and combo attacks as well as the ability to switch 
 weapons mid-fight, e. g. knocking an enemy down with a sword then bringing out the hidden blade 
 to finish him off. This, sometimes, made the fighting seem a bit slow paced but overall was fairly 
 enjoyable.
  
  As for the actual assassination missions, these can be a bit more fun. The atmosphere that surrounds 
 the target is usually that of a busy marketplace or a crowded castle courtyard, this creates various 
 challanges to overcome which can be quite difficult , especially if you are trying to achieve a 
 clean assassination. Unfortunatly, straight after the assassination you are greeted with a rather 
 long and UN-SKIPPABLE cut scene, this can become very frustration, especially if you are finding 
 out for the first time that your character (while he is able to climb the tallest buildings around 
 and slaughter umpteen trillion men at a time) is unable to swim, and you then need to go back , 
 complete the mission again and listen to the cut scene all over again. 
  
  Onto the story; for fear of giving too much away, i'll just say that it's not what you'd expect 
 and Ubisoft have done a brilliant job of keeping it under their hats. It is very imaginative and 
 gives a decent plot line for the game to follow and stops the game from be coming a mindless "lets 
 kill everyone GTA style" massacre.
  
  Overall, Assassins Creed is one of the biggest games out at the moment. An Honour won because the 
 game checks all the boxes on the "thumbs up" list, including brilliant graphics, excellent gameplay 
 and a superb storyline. This is Defiantly a must have game, if not a long rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby_joe_is_in
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  K so im reading this magazine, and i read that this game got a 6 out of 10???? WTF!?!?!!??!!?? 
 I do not know how anyone could give this game lower than a 9!!!!!! It is very fun.
  It's open world cities r huge. The detail on the buildings and NPC's r so good. So it has big environments 
 and good graphics, "so what???" ur thinkin. If u thought that that was all that this game had to 
 offer u r incredibly wrong! Awesome fighting sequences and free running abilities r in this game 
 2. These abilities (free-running and open-world) mashed together add about 20 hours before this 
 game gets old. There r 40+ side missions and over 400 flags to collect. Once u do all the side-missions 
 and get all the flags AND complete the story, u would have clocked in bout' 40 hours! If u have 
 not heard yet, there is also twist at the very beginning. All in all, this is a great installment 
 to ur 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capelus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first started AC i though it really deserved something like 9, controls, animations, visuals 
 etc were brilliant.. then, after going through the first two assassinations I understood why people 
 blammed it for being repetitive. But I must say, during that time I couldn't change my X360 dics 
 to another game, I keep going back for more.. until it finished. Now after completing all missions 
 and part of the side missions in the cities I can say it deserves more than a nine. The plot is 
 cool, and its presentacion is really well done. Still if it could be blammed for being repetitive, 
 I don't get bored for redoing cool things ! I'd say please give me more repetitive cool things! 
 .
  
  Assassin's Creed is original in lot of things, and puts the bar really high for games to come. 
 Visuals - Brilliant, cities are georgeous, nice and breathing... I can't mention any game with 
 better visuals than this in the market now. Sound - At the level of the bests. Gameplay - It performs 
 quite new ways of doing things, controls are different but easy and fine. You get used to them 
 quite quickly. Game is really inmersive. Still you can finish it in a weekend and after doing the 
 main plot, you may loose interest and leave side missions. There's no multiplayer or online options. 
 So the game lenght is kind short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnoflife3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the most exhilarating, exciting games i have ever played. i dont know were to 
 start.
  GRAPHICS-thi sgame is one of the most better looking games ive seen in my life. sometimes i feel 
 as if i am in that time playin the role of the the assassin. the view is quite breath taking and 
 u feel u just want to stay there and warch but u hav peopel to assassinate!. there have been a few 
 technical glitched were i was inside a wall during combat and the animus was at anonymous. apart 
 from that there has been no problems
  SOUND-the sound of the game is really deep and gets in your heart. u cant really listen to the music. you 
 should be calm stand somewhere and just listen. its just beutiful really.
  GAMEPLAY-the game play is just fabulous. and u can do more stuff as you proceed through the game. the 
 game is not too tough or easy. its a game for everyone raelly. if u like tough games then this is 
 the game for you. but if u like easy games then this is the game for you. a game everyone can play.
 
  STORY-the story is great where you play as a assassin al-tahir and you hav to assasinate 9 people 
 to redeem himself. but all the peopl eyou assasinate are bad.
  this is an awsome game and recomend to all action adventure game fan and people who want to buy 
 a new action adventure game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter410
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  There is a shocking start, you wake up in a lab, on a machine which shows your ancestors past, 
 within your DNA. You first start your expedition trying to collect a treasure for the Creed, but 
 some of your old enemies are there, the worst enemy to the creed, he also wants the mysterious 
 treasure, but you decide other wise. You betray the creed and to of your partners have to fight 
 their way out, but one doesn't live, your punishment is death, but your master somehow just makes 
 you think you're dead, you then become a student again, and have to work your way up through the 
 ranks to unlock your abilities and weapons. After that an army comes to attack your town, you of 
 course must defend it. You have to run, climb, jump, fight and assassinate in many different ways, 
 just think of Prince of Persia and Hitman, mixed into one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenrirx
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  At first I loved this game, it was stunning to play and looked beautiful. By the time I got to 
 the fourth or fifth assassination I started to get a bit annoyed with the combat system. Just hold 
 the trigger and tap X at the right time to defeat anyone. In addition there are only a few different 
 mission types which are repeated again and again but with increased difficulty. 
  The movement system is amazing and running across the roof tops is really good fun. 
  
  It 
 could have been so good if they had added more interesting things to do. I hope they make a sequel 
 which increases the variety of mission types. Look at the GTA games, 
  a similar, simple principle but the creators managed to make it fun for hundreds of different missions. 
 
  
  Not a bad game but not the stunning graphics and cool acrobatics don't make up for the lack different 
 things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, currently available on the 360 and PS3 is an amazing gameplay experience to say 
 the least. Beautiful environments, thrilling battles, and some visual effects that will make you 
 go, "Holys**tthatsnice" are a few highlights of the game. And while it does suffer from a few setbacks, 
 it's still such an amazing experience that not recommending it would be a crime.
  
  Assassin's Creed takes place in 1191, during the Fourth Crusade. The Holy Land is being torn apart 
 by King Richard and Saladin in a vicious war that has brought death to the land. During this chaos 
 and turmoil, various warlords and corrupt politicians that have been left in charge of the area 
 have begun to exploit the cities for their own selfish greed. As Altair, a just-disgraced assassin, 
 part of a group of assassins, must locate and terminate 9 men who bring terror to the Holy Land.
 
  
  However, before all of this, you actually play as Desmond Miles, a bartender who was recently kidnapped 
 by a bunch of creepy people in white lab coats who are determined to make you play as your ancestor, 
 Altair in an attempt to find some hidden information. Yeah, I know, "WTF!?" Luckily, the gameplay 
 is good that you can just gloss over this.
  
  So, as Altair, your mission is to go to three different cities, perform missions to gain information 
 on your target, and then finally assassinate your target, and escape safely from the authorities. 
 There are a variety of ways to find information, including eavesdropping, pickpocketing information, 
 interrogation, and performing (sometimes menial) tasks for your fellow Assassin's, who for some 
 unknown reason, despite being your brothers in arms, still refuse to help you out unless you go 
 kill a few guys are collect some stupid flags because they couldn't be half-assed to do it themselves.
 
  
  Despite that, the gameplay is still very fun, and the concept of "Urban Stealth" plays a huge part 
 in this game. If you want to stay hidden, you could simply slide through the croud, quietly and 
 slowly. However, if you're a little more impatient, you could simply run through the crowd, wildly 
 knocking down innocent civilians, possibly alerting the guards. And if you're even more ambitious, 
 you could simply pull a Spiderman and jump across the rooftops of the buildings, killing the occasional 
 rooftop guard on your way. In general, Assassin's Creed is a pretty open-ended game when it comes 
 to how you want to get things done. Even assassinations, while more convenient to simply get stabby 
 on them and run, you could possibly just start killing people to get their attention and then kill 
 them in a sword fight.
  
  This leads to the fighting mechanics. When you fight, you can do a variety of things with your 
 different weapons, including throwing your opponent to the ground (however, stronger enemies like 
 Templars may simply kick you in the crotch for attempting to do so) , break their guard, dodge, 
 and counter. Counters are extremely satisfying to pull off and the fighting rarely gets old due 
 to the intuitive 4-button controls.
  
  Another great thing about Assassin's Creed are the environments. From smokey allies of the poor 
 district of Damascus to the sprawling Catherdrals of Acre, you will see a lot of things, and it 
 is unlikely that you will get bored of the environments Assassin's Creed has to offer. Put it simply, 
 the game is extremely immersive and it's so easy to simply get into the gameplay.
  
  Now, in case you're the rabid Microsoft/Sony fanboy who demands why I have deemed your amazing 
 game, only an 8.5 score, allow me to explain. First of all, the game is reptetive. Yeah, I know, 
 "open-ended" gameplay, but when it comes down to it, the game goes like this. Get a mission, go 
 to city, climb a tower, jump down a tower, save an old woman from getting harrassed by soldiers, 
 beat someone up for interrogation, pickpocket someone, climb up another tower, save another citizen, 
 climb another tower, return to the citie's Assassin's branch, watch a cutscene, find target, kill 
 target, run away. Rinse and repeat. This long list may sound interesting, but believe me, you do 
 it 9 times in a row, and it will start to wear on you. Not to say that the game gets boring though, 
 it's just that this game had so much more potential. I mean, look at the variety of missions in 
 games like GTA. I usually eschew games like it, but if there's anything it does right, it's bring 
 a lot of variety to the table, and I sort of wished Assassin's Creed had more. Imagine what kind 
 of missions could be carried out in a game like this, you could hunt down rogue assassin's, perform 
 reconaissance on the enemy, do something other than clmib a tower. So I guess what I'm trying to 
 say is that despite Assassin's Creed having a lot to offer, it still lacks in variety.
  
  My other complaint would be the AI. Seriously, a battle-hardened and well trained Templar shouldn't 
 have trouble finding me in a crowd simply because I hid behind a bunch of scholars with white hoods. 
 Or how come when guards fight, they always do the exact same thing every time? And how come I'm 
 automatically accused of murder just because I'm not praying? There are so many issues with the 
 AI in this game, it kind of interrupts the immersive experience.
  
  And one last thing, the story, well... to say it lacked concrete meanings would be an understatement. 
 Unless you have magical insight or work for Ubisoft, you will be going, "WTF?" many many times. 
 Dialogue is confusing and I won't say much, but the ending is ALMOST (not quite) as bad as Halo 
 2's. And you totally know there's going to be an Assassin's Creed 2.
  
  However, despite these complains, Assassin's Creed is still an amazing game. With its beautiful 
 environments, epic battles (30 Templar fight FTW) , and a great control scheme coupled with a lot 
 of features makes it still a game definitely worth playing for anyone with a 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xPascal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a great stealth action game that takes place back in the third crusade in 1191 A. D. The 
 combination of great plot, awesome game play elements, and great sound and visuals make assassin's 
 creed a great game to play. I have to say it is fun all the way down to the end... but then what's 
 next after that? It is a great game don't get me wrong but it is defiantly a renter for all you 
 power gamers out there. I think I even beat it in 3-4 days! Upon finishing the game, there is no 
 more purposes, no missions, only the chance to restart from square one. And I mean for all that 
 work you would think that they would add something fun! You will have fun playing as this stealthy 
 assassin Altiar, but rent it first my friends. There also will be sequels to come, they said this 
 will be a three part trilogy and this is only part 1. So hopefully the next 2 will be a bit of 
 improvement on this game. But if your in for some one player fun, or you don't have live. Pick 
 it up. Hopefully it won't disappoint you gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkMario2500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has been a long-awaited game that had plenty of attention for the past several 
 years. The game's smooth controls, great graphics, enveloping storyline that manages to avoid cliches, 
 and overall smooth and entertaining gameplay make it a fun experience for anyone who is a fan of 
 the stealth genre.
  
  When I say "stealth" by no means should you compare this to the Metal Gear and Splinter Cell, as 
 for a stealth game there's a LOT of action going on, and the system in itself is completely different.
 
  
  The game runs great. No framrate issues but an occasional lockup in FPS that will be resolved via 
 a system restart.
  
  The graphics are incredible, as is the soundtrack, which fits the game well. I'd put this soundtrack 
 up there with the soundtracks from any of the Half-Life and Half-Life 2 games, and Bioshock. It 
 really creates an amazing atmosphere. Every score of music in this game was incredible to my ears.
 
  
  The storyline places you as Desmond, our Adam Sandler-esque friend from the future. He's been taken 
 prisoner by a corporation to utilize a machine known as the Animus, to view his ancestor's memories. 
 This part of the story (and where the action goes on) you play as Altair, a Middle-Eastern man 
 trained in the arts of assassination.
  
  The controls are smooth and fit in well with the game's style, though at times the controls feel 
 a bit "over" simplified, but the catch is, the controls are only boring if you make them. In combat 
 the game functions similar to that of a fighting game, you can choose to just use basic moves to 
 win, sure, but it's not going to be as fun. Specialization is key, and eventually you'll find yourself 
 having your own strategy for battles.
  
  Gameplay in itself is great. The citizens are randomized for millions of combinations. To the point 
 the developers claim that you'll never see the same person's model used twice. It adds a sense 
 of immersion to the game that can't be felt by many others. The guards are surprisingly intelligent 
 (though they can seem dim-witted at times, such as when they follow you up massive buildings, despite 
 seeing two of their comrades get thrown off by you) it makes for some pretty entertaining encounters. 
 The assassinations are GREAT fun, mapping out the area, killing off any of those pesky archers 
 ahead of time, and the fact that timing is everything. The best part of it would have to be the 
 city-wide guard alert triggered after. Though getting to the assassinations can be a big pain. 
 The little "interrogations" you must complete (think like mini-missions of sorts) consist of the 
 same 4 missions again, and again. Pickpocketing someone, listening to a conversation, beating the 
 life out of a certain public speaker, and helping one of your fellow assassins by either fetching 
 some items for him within a certain amount of time, or stealth-assassinating two or more targets 
 in a certain amount of time. There are side-quests you can do for Achievement Points, though they 
 can be very annoying. The only side-quests that doesn't bother me is the one where you must seek 
 out and kill the 60 Templars in the game world, not so bad, but finding anywhere between 20 to 
 99 flags in each city, asinine.
  
  This game was born for free-roaming. The "Save the citizen" missions are useful for the fact that 
 you earn aid of either mercenaries or scholars, both of which have saved my hide several times.
 
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed delivers what it claimed, and does it excellently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  The instant I first laid my eyes upon Altair, the hero of Assassin's Creed, I knew I would love 
 this game. The game pulls out all the stops to deliver a absolutely gorgeous recreation of the 
 Holy Land during the third crusade and it is hard to find a piece of the game that isn't pretty 
 to look at. 
  
  The game starts off introducing you to Desmond Miles, the present day ancestor of our 12th century 
 hero. Desmond is a simple bartender who is captured by a secret organization with hidden motives. 
 They use a machine called the animus to access the memories of his ancestor hidden within his DNA. 
 Most of the story will be spent exploring the Holy Land in the memories of Altair, and you spent 
 a small amount of time exploring the confined laboratory containing the animus.
  
  The story and graphics are absolutely top notch. There are few games to date that offer as beautiful 
 experience as Assassin's Creed. However, the one place Assassin's Creed suffered is in its gameplay. 
 The free running and climbing abilities are an absolute joy to mess around with and even better 
 to watch in awe. The combat although is a little easy. You can survive onslaughts from endless 
 hordes of enemies thanks to an easy to use counter system that usually dispatches enemies instantly. 
 This is the only real gripe I have with the game, because it seems like common sense that an assassin 
 trying to stay hidden wouldn't take on a huge group of soldiers. 
  
  Although this doesn't mean that I didn't enjoy the game, because I did. I loved every second of 
 Assassin's Creed and had fun doing each and every side mission, exploring all the view points of 
 each city, and rescuing each citizen in need. These all culminate in an exciting assassination 
 requiring you to blend in with the crowds and remain unseen in order for you to reach your main 
 target without him being any the wiser. 
  
  Overall I recommend Assassin's Creed to any gamer who is looking to have a good time, and Assassin's 
 Creed is easily one of my top 5 favorite games of all time.
  
  Pros:
  -Beautiful graphics
  -Assassinations are satisfying each and every time
  -Great story that 
 leaves room for a sequel
  -Great main character
  -Free running and controls are top notch
  
  Cons:
  -Combat could use some work
  -Playing 
 Desmond in the future means we have to acknowledge that Altair has died : (
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyroger78
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those titles that most people either love or hate. They love the innovative 
 control scheme or the twisting story. Or, they hate the complex controls and the obvious plan to 
 make a sequel. It's a polarizing game, but it can't be denied that it was well-made title and worth 
 a playthrough.
  
  Gameplay-Assassin's Creed puts you in the robe of Altair, a 12th century assassin smack in the 
 middle of the Third Crusade. You are charged, after a fall from grace, with eliminating nine targets 
 who are suspected to be threatening the already chaotic Holy Land with their evil schemes. As you 
 progress, you start to realize that all is not as it seems.
  
  This game introduces a control scheme that, depending on your view, is either innovative or cumbersome. 
 The buttons correspond to a particular part of your body; head, open hand, armed hand, and legs. 
 This combination setup allows for a seemingly infinite number of options in any given scenario. 
 It also makes for a very smooth parkour (free-running) experience; climbing walls and jumping from 
 beam to beam to the ground from ridiculous heights has never been easier.
  
  The game is structured in blocks. You progress through each block, picking off the target (s) after 
 doing a series of investigations (such as interrogation, pick pocketing, eavesdropping, etc.) . 
 In between, there are a number of fetch quests to perform and Templars to eliminate, which are 
 good for achievements and for exploration.
  
  The only real drawback is that the game is a bit repetitive. You follow the same pattern for every 
 target; investigate, touch base with your bureau leader, perform the kill, and run like hell. But 
 if you don't mind finding different ways to perform the same task, than this is really a rather 
 minor problem.
  
  Visuals-Simply put, this game is gorgeous. The kingdom is a joy to just walk through and explore 
 and each town has it's own flavor. They bustle with activity and while some of the character models 
 are a bit redundant, there are a ton of them. Besides, you don't have time to pay attention to 
 who's who while you're running like your hair is on fire trying to escape the city guard.
  
  Sound-The sound is pretty good. The voice acting is decent overall, but there are a few wooden 
 performances and odd imitations of accents. The music is just there. It pops in occasionally and 
 then fades out, but never really makes an impact. The highlight are the sounds of weapons clanging 
 together (and striking, for that matter) and the sounds of a crowded city. They really nailed the 
 cacophony of a city street filled with people. It's a decent effort overall.
  
  Value-Assassin's Creed has enough to do to make it worth the money. You'll spend 40-60 hours if 
 you decide to gather all the flags, eliminate all the Templars, reach all the high points, and 
 do all the other little things there is in the game. If you decide to shoot through as quickly 
 as possible, you can clear the game in twenty hours maximum.
  
  Assassin's Creed is an extremely well made game. People may be dissatisfied with certain aspects 
 of the title, but it can't be denied that as an overall package, it's pretty good. And at the very 
 least, room needs to be made for the main protagonist, Altair, on the short list of great video 
 game badasses. You will see Assassin's Creed 2... I, for one, can't wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedmental
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed:
  
  Pros: Nice controls create fluid movement for the character; crowd physics pretty stunning; LEAP 
 OF FAITH; best graphics I've seen on a console for a long time; you get to do other things than 
 only assassinate; connection between virtual world and real world; ending leaves us questions for 
 the sequel; Ubisoft is Canadian.
  
  Cons: Repetitive gameplay (get mission, climb building, find information, assassinate, get new 
 mission, wash, rinse, repeat) ; story is so-so; sure, Arabians speak English, but why not the French?
 
  
  Achievements: They mostly rely on the player's skill and how much time the player is going to spend 
 playing the game while trying to find those 500 flags or so in the game.
  
  No question about it, this game's graphics are TOP of the NOTCH. The game is actually repetitive, 
 you do the same thing for each of the *cough* nine assassination targets. Oh well, it's still fun, 
 and even if it's repetitive, you do it in a different way every single time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Good: great graphics, has a good story line, great sound, good over all game play.
  
  Bad: controls can be confusing and terrible ending
  
  Story: Its 119 AD and you Altair 
 belong to the assassins creed. It jumps to the future where you are a man called Desmond Miles. Altair 
 is his ancestor. 
  
  game play: I love climbing the tallest building and leaping off it into a hay stack
  You will 
 be able to help monks and vigilantes. If you help a monk his other monks will let you walk around 
 with them getting you into restricted areas.
  
  Helping vigilantes will gain access to 4 men who will hold off guards as you escape. Assassinating 
 targets is the same no matter how much info you get. 
  And doesn't normal y go as planed and you will fight of huge amounts of guards. When you assassinate 
 your targets they will give a little speech listen to these to get the hints on the main story. After 
 every time you assassinate a target in a certain city the guards get more sus about the man in 
 the white hood. Combat is so much fun and even better once you have your combos.
  
  Over all a good game for all gamers AND ............
  GAME ON
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  A well structured action adventure game seems hard to come by today. These games come and go, but 
 shooters are still the center of attention. It's nice knowing that Assassin's Creed is shining 
 some light on this genre and in its own right, has a good start to the Assassin's Creed franchise.
 
  
  You'll play as an assassin named Altair, part of the Assassins back in the days of the war over 
 the Holy Land. If no one knows what I'm talking about, then lets just say that there's a war going 
 on and certain people on both sides of this conflict need to die. Badly.
  
  That's not all. The story has a huge twist. It's revealed very early in the game. Before you even 
 begin your first mission, it's shoved in your face. In fact, the instruction manual itself pretty 
 much nudges your shoulder about this twist. All I can really say is that while it is very clever 
 and unique, it kind of ruins the authenticity of the whole assassins thing.
  
  Moving onward, you'll quickly notice how the controls work are simple, yet strange at the same 
 time. Holding the right trigger takes you into High Profile mode, allowing you to do certain actions 
 like running, jumping, and anything that you wouldn't want to do when you want to keep hidden or 
 quite. Otherwise you're in low profile mode where you're mostly slow and natural. This works great, 
 but that's not even the half of it.
  
  The game world consists of 3 major cities, all linked together by a huge outside countryside-like 
 area. Each of them are downright huge. Each city actually has THREE different sections and they're 
 all HUGE and rediculously detailed. And that's where things start to work their magic.
  
  You'll spend lots of time climbing on things and jumping from roof to roof. You're probably thinking 
 about timed button presses and complex controls for each of them, but no. All you really have to 
 do is hold down the High Profile button and push the thumbstick where you want to go. It is literally 
 just like that. All the jumping and climbing is like on autopilot. Run off a building and depending 
 on what's there, you'll probably grab onto a ledge on another building, take baby steps on narrow 
 planks of wood acting as catwalks, swing on bars sticking off of buildings, the list goes on. Basically, 
 if there's an object that can be a foothold or something you can grab on, you can most definitely 
 use it as a means of getting somewhere.
  
  Movement fits just like a glove. Give it ten minutes to fit properly. Maybe less. Combat, however, 
 is just as simple. There's really only one attack button. Another button grabs your enemy. Switching 
 to High Profile mode gives you more options like blocking and using counter attacks. Don't get 
 turned off too much because of only one attack button as holding it down makes you do a slower-but 
 stronger attack. Basically, you just have to attack your enemies by pressing the attack button, 
 then time your buttons correctly for counter attacks. That's pretty much it. It's very, very simple 
 and it remains like that for much of the game.
  
  The bulk of your time will still be spent on exploration, but in order to progress in the story, 
 you must do some work. Boring work. You'll be interrogating people, eavesdropping, pickpocketing, 
 doing jobs for informants, and there's not much else to it. The worst part is that these jobs for 
 the story are the exact same thing for the rest of the game. You'll be pickpocketing people again, 
 and again, and again. Now do the same with the other objectives. Keep repeating the process until 
 the credits roll. But these missions actually assist and inform you of assassinating your target. 
 After all, you're an assassin. Assassination missions occur right after your investigations. What 
 can I say about them? They're just flat-out badass.
  
  Basically, once you're done gathering info, you'll have to locate the assassination target. Once 
 you're there, you'll have to sit through some cutscenes (which don't hold back) and for once, do 
 some serious thinking. It's not like going head-on into your target is the best way to do things 
 (but it pretty much most always works) . The cool thing about it is that you can do it however you 
 like. Take them out silently or get into a 1 on 1 brawl. That's only 2 of a lot of possibilities 
 that can happen. One of the coolest scenarios involves you trying to find a good way to get to 
 your target who is on a ship, and you'll actually have to jump through boats that are placed in 
 the middle of the docks. One slip and you'll drown. And after all of this, it will make you feel 
 like a total badass for taking this particular target down, no matter how you do it. The silent 
 stealth kills are made of total brutal epic death-defyingly awesome win with that awesome sound 
 playing whenever it happens. You might as well shout "Gotcha, *****!" right into his face when 
 you take him down.
  
  Even with those awesome moments, the game itself can just get really repetitive. Not only are the 
 same kinds of missions played out over and over, but the combat is kept at a fairly simple (and 
 easy) level. Counter-attacks are instant kills a lot of the time and there's really only one kind 
 of side mission which involves combat, and since combat is easy the side missions are easy. It 
 starts to make hiding from pursuers pointless. I said that full-on combat isn't the best way to 
 do things, but that doesn't mean that it's going to be hard if you try. 
  
  Despite this, the combat is fairly unique and very authentic. When you have multiple gaurds on 
 you, they will usually create a cirle around you if not trying to corner you. You'll be in the 
 center with your sword right in front of you like you're ready to do something awesome. Then just 
 one of the many guards surrounding you decides to strike you, but your counter attack sends him 
 off a roof. Even if they mostly attack one-by-one, it just feels completely natural. But not only 
 that, this makes the pacing of combat flawless. It's never too slow or too fast, and it still keeps 
 the intensity in the air. Plus, since the cities are so detailed and big, you can have a nice fight 
 pretty much anywhere. Fight in the streets or take it to the highest roof. I don't care. You're 
 in for a neat fight.
  
  There's also a lot going on without all the swords and blood. I can give a lot of credit to Assassin's 
 Creed just for its world. The amount of incredible detail put into this game is something everyone 
 needs to see. Civilians practically fill up the screen on every corner. They all act naturally 
 and actually seem like they're part of the world.
  
  I can't really say that the graphics are some of the best. It has spectacular graphics, to say 
 the least. What's really amazing is that there's really no load times when you're in a city and 
 it all looks and performs extremely smoothly. Find the highest point in the area and you're greeted 
 with an amazing view.
  
  It's also a given fact that this takes place in a world full of Muslims and heck, Europeans trying 
 to conquer the Holy Land. The voice acting in this game is about as unique as everything else in 
 the game. I can't say that there's really too much personality into the voices, but more than anything 
 they fit the setting and make the sound stand out. It's ironic though that the main character has 
 the worst voice out of all of them. It's good, but the problem is that it doesn't seem to fit with 
 the setting. Who knew that an elite assassin sound exactly like the average American we see today?
 
  
  Assassin's Creed is actually the start of a new series. It's off to a successful start, and I hope 
 it stays that way. In a sea of huge repetitive tasks and simplicity, AC manages to come back with 
 a totally natural and authentic experience. With lots more variety and a bit of complication added 
 to the formula, it's not too close to being a serious figure and role model in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanmano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a is a huge plunge into the games that allow you to free roam city's and nearly 
 every object in the game is not off limits.
  
  Previous games like these eg GTA series have allowed you to free roam around city's have been more 
 of a modren time frame well this has changed in Assassins creed Ubisoft has set the time frame 
 back to The Crusades and they have done a great job.
  
  Now the story of Assassins creed isnt all that great some times it leaves you a bit confused and 
 lost but if you pay attention to the story and stop assassinating guards you might pick it up again.
 
  
  Now the is a problem with the people you must kill as in the info that you need for each target 
 is the same for all of them and that really makes assassins creed fall a bit flat but usally these 
 hicks can but cured by going around killing randoms.
  
  The graphics are top notch they really worked on them and Assassins Creed looks great all round.
 
  
  Assassins Creed is a great game and is a must play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_cain
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I honestly really didn't know what I was buying when I bought this game. I didn't check out any 
 of the previews of it, never really kept up with it like I do with some other games. I was in gamestop 
 and saw some of the posters for it and thought it look amazing, so I picked it up and played it 
 when I got home. 
  Once every thing loaded up, I was just simply stunned. The game had a unique contol design, and 
 amazing graphics. Gameplay is fun and addicting. However it does seem to get a little repeatitive 
 after jumping off of a tower or a ledge a hundred times, and saving the all the people in all the 
 towns. But still even after that it is very replayable, and there is still nothing like sneaking 
 up behind a guard and assassinating him, or using your throwing knifes and watch guards fall off 
 of the rooftops.
  This game really does qualify as a classic and a masterpiece, it offers something different, and 
 something amazing. There may be games like Splinter Cell and Prince of Persia, which are similiar 
 and have that stealth/action style to them, this one really is in a league of its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  This game is simply gorgeous. Every town is incredibly detailed and alive. Character motions are 
 fluid and realistic. Sometimes I would catch myself pausing just to take in the surroundings. 
 
  
  The story is also quite excellent. A little history lesson mixed in with a philosophical take on 
 the world and what people believe and the things around us that we take for granted. I would find 
 myself advancing through the missions just to get to the assassination dialogs to hear their speeches.
 
  
  Cons:
  Unfortunately the game play itself suffers. In each of the 9 sections the quests are 100% repetitive 
 and duplicates of each other. Climb some towers, fight some guards, pickpocket, eavesdrop, done. 
 Repeat for each zone. These missions could have used more variety in their execution, even the 
 timed kills/flag collections were relatively easy. The flag collections were an interesting side 
 diversion, and more side quests would have also enhanced the replay value of the game.
  
  Combat as well is very easy. Even when surrounded by 10+ guards, simply holding guard/counter will 
 eventually whittle away at your opponent. There is no incentive to run or be stealthy when you 
 can simply "storm the castle" eliminating everything in your way.
  
  Overall the game is good, but suffers from its lack of challenge and overall repetitiveness. It 
 is still a very fun game though, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for an engaging game 
 to play over a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elothran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Gaming world have never seen a story like that before, forget every single medieval or middle-age 
 action games you have played. This game has no constant path to walk, not a constant man to kill, 
 not a constant way to fight.
  Jump, slash, dash, climb, ride and pray. 
  
  I really wonder why Altair has one finger less? ( is it because missusing the hidden blade and cut 
 his own finger when he was a novice? or Al Muallim cut his finger cuz he did something that not 
 told to him ?)
  
  No city can be compared to the ones in this game, they are massive, huge, collosal, every single 
 thing is detailed, including the shops in street bazaars and womens carrying pots.
  
  Riding horse when traveling from a capital city to another is so enjoyable, because the horse movements 
 are correct, horses are not runnng like a motorbike. 
  
  View points are a good idea to reveal the areas in a such big city . Therefore you can see if theres 
 any investigation that you have to do, or if theres a group of soldiers who are bullying a citizen. 
 Silent assasinations are the best part of the game I think. 
  
  We really have to appriciate Ubisoft for putting some facts in game:
  
  - Thanks G. D Assassin's 
 Bureau has no public accesable entrance.
  - Praying with scholars to avoid the guard posts? Great idea.
  - Synchronization bar instead 
 of health? Great idea. Because youre not playing as yourself, its your ancestor, so when you fall 
 of from a building or get hurt, there is some sycnhornization mistake in your ancestor's memory. 
 
  - Haystacks, empty banks to decrease wanted level? Great idea.
  - Different spoken languages including Turkish, French, Arabic and English, those languages were 
 really spoken in those cities at the time of Holy Crusade to Jerusalem.
  - Dolls for dying animations, always liked that.
  - Extra cinematics for counter attacks.
  
 - Real time action fights. It Rocks !!
  - Reactions of public and soldiers, the way it has to be.
  - Climbing every single structure 
 or building you see? Great idea.
  
  And some negative points about this game:
  
  - When I fell of a building for the first time in the game, it really sucked cuz I haven't got 
 the ability called "grab edge". I mean I can understand that I have to restore my inventory from 
 the beginning but why the abilites too?..
  - We (Altair) are like a one man army, we can cut people's heads off, jump on 'em, break their arms 
 and legs, stab them in the back, we can climb to the highest buildings in all the world.. but we 
 cannot swim... doesn't that just sucks !?!?
  - Sometimes Altair jumps onto space instead of the higher edge of the building (for example a wieving 
 point) and falls down... and of course.... dies.... that also suck. Actually thats both bad and good. 
 Cuz it teaches you to be careful at the every step you take on game. But it sucks cuz it just takes 
 away all your will to play the game.
  
  Although its a great game and worths playing. Playing forever.
  
  Goodluck and have fun.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kujosp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that I love this game!!
  Pro's
  +The fighting in the game is at times simple yet thoroughly enjoyable
  +Awesome story line and 
 cliff hanger, make sure to search the internet after completing for explanaition of ending.
  +Detailed, breath taking, and large world
  +Lots of stuff to do, It'll keep you busy for a long 
 time
  +Very little if any glitches, which you'll appreciate more after playing Mass Effect
  
  I love the game but....
  Con's
  -Repetitive, the side quests were all the same from city 
 to city, got kinda old
  -Thought the end battle was waaaaaay to easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Despite the awe inspiring graphics, the almost cinematic gameplay (which was a bit too easy) , and 
 the insane detail attention, despite all this the storyline was just aweful! Creative yes, but 
 still it really hurt my experience with this game, and I doubt I will play the sequel. Not what 
 I had in mind, good god guys keep making games with graphics like these, but lets add a story that 
 helps encourage immersion. After playing this I need a good rpg to mellow me out, cause I am honestly 
 a little ticked off. I waited and waited on this to come out, it is the first x 360 game I bought 
 since gears of war, and I am taking it back tomorrow. Whatever, I just want quality when I play 
 video games, I want a good experience and an overall feel good feeling in the end. Where is fable 
 2? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil-bucket
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  this is a very good game and i love playing all the time it is a very innovative and new idea and 
 awesome blending system and great story line, the battle sequences would be better if they could 
 be more difficult i can basically use just the counter maneuver to win absolutely every battle 
 that comes my way and i wish that wasn't so, but its only small potatoes. the graphics on this 
 game are great all the way through, you will get hooked instantly and some parts of the game will 
 definitely make you feel like a vigilante. it is a great game to start your collection as well 
 as continue it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kegeto
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Okay okay okay settle down everyone we know Assassins Creed is the best game out there. when i 
 first played this game i was in love with it on how the graphics and envoriment and acting is great 
 as well the gameplay you will always find new ways you can go back. Although the game is a neverending 
 game that you will go and save few people or climbing a big ass building and use your Eagle vision 
 to mind your surrendings. Though the Scifi flick mixed with the past biblical storyline was intresteding 
 i was kinda impress on how this machine can unlock your familys past i wished this was real lol 
 but any way back to the game. this game is been begging to be the best game that came out i believe 
 that this GAME CAN BEAT HALO 3. i mean dont get me wrong Halo games are always the best games on 
 the x-box but this game is the best on the 360. and besides i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightOfTheNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game really does bring another type of gameplay to the table. This game may not have a immersive 
 story but it is so much fun mainly because there is nothing off limits and when your not pickpocketing 
 thugs or getting imformation with a little bit of help with your fists, the sword fights are amazing. 
 Your counters are like liquid. You can take down countless number of guards with ease and outrun 
 them just the same. The games visuals are so amazing! Hopefully Altair will be back for more soon! 
 I highly recommend this game to all types of gamers! Till next time! see ya around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAENF0RCER13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that will leave your jaw dropping. It's graphics are amazingly beautiful, 
 the character models are great, the game play is amazing, and overall it's a great game. With smooth 
 responsive controls, this game is easy to control. Not that many glitches in this game though, 
 although there is this kind of small glitch this guy found out in youtube which will leave you 
 laughing. There may be some lag issues (I had lag issues) that will be in this game so it may leave 
 you frustrated. The only downfall of this game is the replay. Once you beat the game, there's not 
 much to do. You can still free roam and kill anybody you see but other than that, there's not much 
 to do. But I would only say that for the PS3, and soon to be DS and PC version. If you have it 
 for the 360 though, this game has just enough replay with the achievements. Apart from the storyline 
 achievements, some of the achievements have you collecting flags and killing templars which may 
 give some replay to those who want to up their gamerscore.
  
  Buy or Rent? 
  
  I would consider renting this game first because if you buy it and beat the game, there's not that 
 much to do.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Story 8/10
  Controls 10/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  Replay 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarzanman0
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a game that controls like no game you have ever played. The conrol scheme actually 
 works pretty well and lets you have more control of your character. Abilities like counter-kill 
 and throwing knives makes this game awesome. One of my complaints is that the guards in the kingdom 
 always know you are an assassin. Getting within a few feet and they attack. I try to assassinate 
 guards one by one without the others getting suspicous. This game is also very repetitive, but 
 when the gameplay is awesome, you can't complain. This is a very good game and I would suggest 
 it to anybody who likes games like Oblivion without the stats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt00384
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Just plain fun the games graphics and texture is also really good. But i also had one problem the 
 controls were hard at first but i got used to them and now the game is just fun. and it it is highly 
 adictive i would recomend buying this if you like games like being Assassin's. And again it is just 
 plain fun. and i would recomend buying it it is just to fun and it looks so cool when youre riding 
 a horse and everything is cool.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  aaaaaaaaa a a a a a a aaa a a aa a a a a a a a a aa a a aa aa aa a a a a a aaa a a 
 a a a a a a aa aaaadddf gfd gdfgdf gd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keli1989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Ok so this might be because of the high expectations but in my mind this was probably the biggest 
 letdown of the year.
  First of all the graphics.
  
  Graphics : 9.5 / 10.0
  The graphics were jaw dropping and since they were the first thing i saw my high hopes went even 
 higher.
  The graphics are probably the only thing that really stood out and are probably the only thing 
 that makes this game get some tens (from the graphic loving gamers) .
  
  Story : 7.0 / 10.0
  Well if you have completed the game you will probably know the reason for 
 me rating the story section the way i did.
  The story reveals a twist right in the beginning that kinda turns this game into another direction 
 then i thought it would, the story manages to build up great suspense when nearing the end and 
 then the end comes.... a big middle finger to anyone who spend their time in vein trying to figure 
 out the ending.
  If there is anything i hate it's games/movies which are so money greedy they don't end with a possible 
 sequel they are already pre-planned as a prequel.
  Since they could have left the player with some clarity in the end but decided not to, then i must 
 believe that the minute they finished this one they started the next one.
  Of course i could be wrong and this is the way they are truly going to end this, and if that is 
 the case the story deserves nothing more than a 6.
  
  Gameplay : 8.3 / 10.0
  So the gameplay starts of amazingly well and you run around climbing these buildings and getting 
 into fights with the templars and the guards and you in the beginning exploring all the possibilities 
 is extremely fun.
  But then you reach a certain point where you realize that this is all your going to be doing for 
 the rest of the game, that point is a little sad.
  With the Investigating, pickpocketing, intimidating and helping your brothers do their job for 
 them you would think the staff had enough to work with to make a handful of original quests, but 
 no, they all end up the same and by the second half of the game you have pretty much played them 
 all.
  Well all except the main assassinations which are pretty fun to do ill give them that.
  
  Overall 
 : 8.5 / 10.0
  This game had true potential but with the blurry ending, the repetative gameplay and the easiest 
 fights you could ever imagine this game does not come close to what i expected it to be.
  This game is still a pretty good play but maybe it is best to wait for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-Beer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  I got myself Assassin's creed on monday, and I just want to say that overall it's a wonderfull 
 game with the right settings of crowd and guards at the right places.
  The AI of the guards is not the best, all you hafto do is hold A (X i think if you play it on the 
 PS3, havent tried) to blend and they wont see you, (care about anyway) and in combat, they will 
 dance around atacking one by one and embrace the slaughter. This is especialy easy when you unlock 
 the counter-kill. I know that not all the guards is as stupid as the next one, some will attack 
 even when you blend. Especialy the Templars are smarter. They WILL spot you no matter what.
  The hiding spots is also an important part of assassin's creed. I know this is said by others, 
 but how can someone hide by sitting on a bench next to other people, and dosen't anyone notice 
 that you have a lot of deadly gear on you when you blend withe the scholars. The haystack and window 
 garden make good sence, but why don't the guards just peek into those curtains.
  The game would be a lot harder, but that could be a good thing and you would hafto break the line 
 of sight a little more.
  
  Many complain about the voice acting and that the dialouges is word by word the same all the time. 
 The repeated dialouges I agree with, but the repeated voices (exept from Acre) are easily explained 
 by that the animus translates everything to English (I have heard French and German to, but mostly 
 in Acre, again)
  I agree that the future parts of the game could have been dropped and made out to cutsceenes, but 
 who can blame ubisoft for wanting to make a cool sci-fi game!
  
  The weaponry in the game is fantastic. And it is easy to acess the right equpment at the right 
 time. At the beginning of the game your weapons are stripped, and restored one by one when you 
 take down one of the targets, also you get back one of your assassinatoin skills that you odly 
 lost togheter with your rank. (I blame the knife in the gut thing)
  
  I must admint that my favorite waeapon become the short blade as soon as I got it, and you can 
 use your throwingkniwes at the same time, those nice instant killing distancet hrows and beautiful 
 counter-kills with the short balde.
  
  Something realy usefull is the horse and when the destination thing is very good to have when you 
 don't want to ride over kingdom to get to Acre.
  The game is a stealth game like MGS or splinter cell but without all the fancy gadgets, so all 
 thief fans especial should try it out
  
  Overall Assassin's creed is one of the top two games on my personal top list. Mostly becouse I 
 love the free-running and freedom it brings.
  
  I recomend all people with a 360 or a PS3 to buy assassin's creed, or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Incubuskid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  It is very ambitious, and a fun game.
  
  Graphics are beautifully rendered, even amazing. You can easily find yourself lost in the life 
 of our protagonist. Sound is great as well and it also helps to immerse you into this world.
  
  Controls are intuitive. They are simple enough yet allow for some variety. However, the combat 
 system may not appeal to some, because it relies heavily on only two buttons. I personally found 
 it to be fine.
  
  Game play is where it shines and dulls. Playing the game you will soon become familiar with the 
 somewhat monotonous game play. It is very fun and fresh at first, but soon you may grow tired of 
 the unvarying missions: pickpocket, eavesdrop, assassinate, fight, and collect flags... Wash, rinse 
 repeat.
  
  Replayability is non-existent, once you have completed the game there isn't much else to do, but 
 relive the assassinations if you really want to.
  It is a great to play only once. (Like I said rent)
  
  Some type of online play would be great, 
 however it is non-existent as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrillyum
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  i went into gamestop and bought my xbox 360 with the two games call of duty 4, and assassins creed. 
 Those were the two best games out at the time and i figured i would get some awesome thrills out 
 of both of them. Everyone was excited for it and i was the first of my friends to get it, so of 
 course that was the first game i played. I was at first kinda disappointed by the odd story line. 
 After i got over that and got the controls down, i began to get into the heart of the game. The 
 goal of the game is to assassinate 9 important people. I played the game and assassinated only 
 3 of the 9. I have no desire to finish the game because its too repetitive for me. Every mission 
 is pickpocket this guy, eaves drop on this person. It just got kinda bored with it. Its way overrated. 
 If you like that sandbox style gameplay where you can run around everywhere, there are definitely 
 other better games to play. But sneaking around is definitely fun, but not enough fun to buy this 
 game if you already haven't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is truly a very innovative game. It takes known formulas and brings them to a 
 whole new level with a very good result.
  
  The story is absolutely compelling and you d'on't know the truth almost all the way to the end.
 
  
  Obviously there is no multiplayer campaing which is something you should expect in this kind of 
 games but the single player experience is very rewarding. I've been playing for over two weeks 
 now and still have plenty work to do to complete all objectives.
  
  The achievements are pretty fair and you can expect to squeeze almost 80% of the 1000G at the end 
 of the game without sweating too much (This doesn't mean that you'll have them easy... but they 
 are "doable") .
  
  Bottom line: If you like "single players" buy this one without thinking it twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Even though Assassins Creed is beautiful to look and fun to run through, it's a game that gets 
 repetitive and old quite quickly.
  
  The voice acting of all the supporting characters are amazing, but sadly the lead character sounds 
 like he's reading straight from the script. Monotone and drab, with little to no game acting skill 
 at all.
  
  The music is nice, but sub standard, especially in the days of huge orchestral scores following 
 great games. I guess I was spoiled by Bioshock & Halo3.
  
  The game itself is fun, even though the "futuristic" aspect is a little goofy in my opinion. The 
 game itself gets very, very repetitive after a while, losing a lot of the desire to purchase Assassins 
 Creed outright. I suggest every one gives AC a try to make their own decisions, but serious gamers 
 ( and even novice) will not be to challenged to making it to the end and feeling very let down 
 during the final scenes. 
  
  Rent AC, but don't purchase the game. Hopefully the sequel will leave the gamer feeling more fulfilled 
 at the end. You will never forget playing AC, but sadly you will never replay it again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halochief_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I just borrowed this game from my friend and iv'e been playing it 4 hours straight until finally 
 i was afraid of my xbox overheating ( which it probably wouldn't cause i have a fan beside it ) 
 and the first thing i noticed was the beautiful enviroment and graphics, it's just amazing. I like 
 to do counter attacks and stuff like that, also the camera views how they let you move them around 
 and stuff while your talking to somebody. Free Roaming is just awesome you can go up to a view 
 point and almost everything you see you can go to, then you jump down into a haystack. I have found 
 this game quite reapeative like all your doing is killing people go to this place, assasstionating 
 someone, ect
  
  This game is awesome you should get it 
  
  9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Riding on a massive media rollercoaster, Assassin's Creed is a game that had me worried from the 
 start. The idea of being able to run across rooftops freely, kill with ease, and blend in with 
 the crowd is a technical gaming feat which is hard to master. Ubisoft Montreal ran with this idea 
 and produced a sugar coated fantasy which didn't uphold to everything it promised, but gave enough 
 to leave you satisfied in the end.
  
  Assassin's Creed is based off of two story arches and two characters. These two characters are 
 Altar, an assassin living in 1191, and Desmond Miles, a distant relative of Altar living in the 
 21st century. The game revolves around the idea that Desmond has been kidnapped by a secret organization 
 which wants to analyze the memories of a particular ancestor. To do this, they have Desmond lay 
 on a machine called the animus which can search through his genetic code for key points in the 
 memory of his ancestor, Altar. The main plot is largely uninteresting and seems uninspired. For 
 someone who's being kidnapped by a shadow organization and being forced to relive the memories 
 of his ancient assassin ancestor, Desmond seems perfectly fine with it and cool to a point. Desmond's 
 actions and emotions seem out of place and do nothing to elevate the plot.
  
  Fortunately, Desmond is jacked into the animus early into the game and you are taught the simple 
 controls of Assassin's Creed. In Assassin's Creed, there are two types of actions Altar can perform: 
 Low Profile and High Profile. Low Profile actions, for the most part, will not draw the attention 
 of nearby guards or civilians, while High Profile actions do just the opposite. By holding down 
 the right trigger, every button that was originally mapped to be Low Profile will now become High 
 Profile. For example, instead of walking, you will now run, and instead of just gently pushing 
 people out of the way, you will tackle them or throw them to the ground. However, once you get 
 farther into the game and perform more assassinations, choosing to be Low Profile or High Profile 
 don't really matter anymore, because just about anything will make the guards want to kill you.
 
  
  Thankfully, the rest of the controls are fairly easy to learn. Climbing buildings requires no effort 
 at all. You just grab onto a building and use the left analog stick to move in the direction in 
 which you desire. Other than scaling buildings and jumping across rooftops, Altar also has a special 
 ability called Eagle Vision. When fully synchronized (which means when you have full health) , Altar 
 can look at his surroundings in an entirely different way. The sky and ground become dark and blurry, 
 but people, such as allies and guards, become more prominent and easier to spot, which in turn 
 makes your current job easier.
  
  The main objective of Assassin's Creed is to gather intelligence on a certain person, find out 
 where they're hiding or what they're doing on the day in which you plan to assassinate them on, 
 and then follow-up by performing the hit. There are three ways in which you can gather intelligence 
 on your target: pickpocketing, eavesdropping, and interrogation. These short mini-games are fun 
 the first few times you do them, but throughout the game, you will be doing them over and over 
 again, so they quickly become repetitive and boring. Aside from that, you can also save citizens 
 from corrupt guards, but this only provides you with protection from "vigilantes" or scholars, 
 which for the most part is unneeded. There isn't a whole lot of depth to the gameplay of Assassin's 
 Creed until you get to the actual assassination itself. There are many different locations in which 
 the assassinations take place, and every assassination is different (albeit the actual kill) . Altar 
 must always be close enough to the target so that he can take out his hidden blade and kill them 
 with it. This means that no amount of throwing knives can kill your target, though you can weaken 
 them with your blade. After each assassination is complete, you are shown a cutscene in which Altar 
 and the assassinated target speak. These cutscenes are meant to add more drama to the story surrounding 
 Altar, but in the end, they are bland spices sprinkled onto an already boring and tasteless plot.
 
  
  Between Altar and the target are hordes of enemy guards but Altar has a selection of weapons 
 at his disposal to take care of them. This includes a long sword, a small dagger, throwing knives, 
 his fists, and his hidden blade. The long sword is mainly used for taking down a small number of 
 foes at a time while the small dagger is better for quickly and efficiently taking down larger 
 groups of enemies. Throwing knives can be thrown either in or out of battle and each hit will usually 
 kill your target instantly. For the most part, unless you're fighting another person who is also 
 using their fists, getting dirty with just your hands is utterly useless unless they're being used 
 for interrogation purposes. Last, we have the hidden blade, Altar's ultimate weapon. If done while 
 not having nearby guards alerted, the hidden blade can be used for either Low Profile or High Profile 
 kills. The hidden blade can also be used while in combat, but it is not a wise choice to do so 
 as it leaves you unguarded against your attacker's blade.
  
  Other than defending against throngs of enemies by yourself, Altar also has the chance to ally 
 himself with scholars and vigilantes. To gain access to these two types of allies, you must first 
 save a citizen or scholar who is being abused by the city guard. After killing the corrupt guards, 
 the citizen or scholar will thank you and either the vigilante or scholar allies will then be unlocked 
 to you in that specific area of the city. Vigilantes are helpful when you are being chased by numerous 
 guards, as they will leap out to defend you and keep the following guards occupied by grabbing 
 onto their arms and allowing you a chance to make a break for it. Scholars on the other hand work 
 as moving cover: if you are being chased but you have broken the line of sight between you and 
 the guards, you can blend in with the scholars to walk away freely. As helpful as these two allies 
 may seem through words, they are actually quite useless and it is only by chance that you might 
 accidentally run by one of these two groups while fleeing. It is much easier (and satisfying) to 
 just kill the guards yourself, and finding rooftop garden sheds and piles of hay is a much more 
 efficient way of hiding rather than searching for a group of scholars.
  
  However, if not to add a sour note to one thing about Assassin's Creed, the game is simply beautiful. 
 It's clear that Ubisoft Montreal put a whole lot of effort into their building design and characters. 
 You won't usually see (or notice) the same citizen twice, but it still remains the fact that they 
 are there. Beggars and drunks will usually use the same character models (and sound effects) , but 
 it really doesn't matter in the end because the game looks completely seamless. Even a great deal 
 of time went into the water effects of Assassin's Creed, even though you don't spend a lot of time 
 wading through it (or swimming for that matter; Altar can't swim) . Assassin's Creed is flowing 
 with a mysterious atmosphere, and you can really feel at times that you are an actual assassin 
 out to gather intelligence on a target, no matter how mediocre or repetitive the objects may seem.
 
  
  A big let down from the graphics, however, is Assassin's Creed's sound effects. The voice acting 
 is great, but the same voices for the beggars, preachers, citizens in need, and several different 
 dynamic characters are recycled and used over and over again. Just listening to the sounds of Assassin's 
 Creed is as repetitive as completing the in-game objectives. It almost feels like Ubisoft Montreal 
 tried to make the game's sounds as annoying as possible. Beggars will follow you relentlessly begging 
 for money, you will hear the same person over and over again asking for help, and you'll hear the 
 same person preaching to a crowd about the effects of the Crusades and how it is taxing everybody 
 and how bad Richard the Lionheart is. It just takes so much away from what little, imaginative 
 gameplay Assassin's Creed clings on to.
  
  Aside from completing the main storyline and saving citizens, there are also dozens of flags hidden 
 throughout the three different cities and its outside kingdom. But, just like in every game ever 
 made, collecting things is just boring and pointless (unless you're an achievement junkie) . A good 
 mix Assassin's Creed does show with collecting things is the lives of 60 different Templars scattered 
 around the kingdom. Rather than just searching for a flag and then running over it to collect it, 
 you can also search for these different Templars and then kill them to obtain your reward. Templars 
 are often overpowered and, if you fight fairly, a challenging target to beat, but these fights 
 are always rewarding and it makes Altar not feel like a superhuman, killing-machine. Templar fights 
 are, dare I say it? Fair?
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a fun action adventure game for the first few hours, but quickly becomes 
 boring and repetitive as the game drags on. It seems that Ubisoft Montreal knew that the game was 
 going to feel repetitive as you assassinated more targets, so they just put a lot of emphasis on 
 the unrealistic fighting by making guards more aware and wanting to kill you for simply running. 
 It's a shame too, because Assassin's Creed was a game with so much promise and appeal, but Ubisoft 
 Montreal just ended up failing with the execution of the formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antimat0r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Like many people at xmas, i got this game as a present as well as Mass Effect. Of course i ignored 
 my family and friends for the rest of the day and went straight to the one thing that doesnt judge 
 me, my 360!
  
  Assassins Creed has some of the most intense visuals i have ever seen on a next-gen console. I 
 was afriad that after seeing the trailer on the net (same as the opening sequence) it would be 
 nothing like the actual game, boy was i wrong! Also, the moment of your character is superb is 
 most ways, apart from when in a chase and then every building seems impossible to climb, although 
 this could just be me...
  
  The problem i found with this game, which is the main reason for this review is that the gameplay 
 life is very low, i dont have a short attention span but (partial spoiler) going to a city, killing 
 some1, going to a city, killing some1, going to...... gets very repetitive, very quickly.
  
  This means i found my self using this game as a break from playing Mass effect every few hours.
 
  
  Worth getting, but it plays on its graphics more then its gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supes36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is unbelievable while a steep learning curve starts out once you get around it 
 you find a world of wonder ready to be explored. Alright lets get this out of the way, yes it is 
 gorgeous. Unlike Mass Effect where you will catch it loading up during cut scenes there really 
 isn't many graphical glitches or hitches that come with the beauty and that my friends is refreshing. 
 The gameplay is so intuitive and fun that you'll be pulling off insane acrobatic stunts and assassinations 
 like nothing. Another thing this game made me sa wow many times and everything oozes coolness. 
 I'm not going to spoil the story but i will say its good even though the ending isn't what it should 
 have been. In my eyes this game is nearly flawless if not for the fact that there are only so man 
 assassinations, small gripe therefore i award this a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kari_23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is amazing to put it mildly. The thought and genius that went into this game is 
 astounding. Assassin's Creed is my personal pick for Xbox 360's game of 2007! While no game is 
 perfect, this one comes very close in my eyes. 
  
  The graphics and sound effects are innovative; the world you are emerged into is full of life and 
 just waiting for you to explore. It is also a nice change to be able to have sword fights instead 
 of gunfights. Moreover, leaping off buildings in a single bound is great fun... even if you do land 
 in a pile of hay! 
  
  As I said before no game is perfect, but I must say I was surprised at some of the criticism's 
 I have read on here. One is that Altair's voice acting is bad, because he does not have the appropriate 
 accent. However, it is not "really" Altair, but Desmond in a memory so of course his voice is going 
 to have an American, and not Arabic accent. 
  
  Secondly, the character of Altair has been called undesirable and/or unlikable. This is true that 
 he starts off as a bit of a hothead, but it shows that he is only human. Who here does not have 
 some kind of flaw? No one is perfect! The main thing is that Altair grows, changes, and learns 
 throughout the game and becomes the hero. Every hero has some kind of struggle, Altair's is his 
 ego, and overcoming it and becoming a better person makes him a better Assassin and therefore a 
 better hero! I like the fact that Altair has an ego in the beginning; it gives him a human element. 
 
  
  Thirdly, the game has been called repetitive. Yes, I can see where it could become so, but only 
 if you let it. There is so much to do and see. Yes, you do the same types of missions over and 
 over again, but you can do them in any order, and mix up saving citizens and scaling viewpoints 
 in between. Plus, there are hundreds of flags to find in each city to collect... It is not so bad 
 believe be I have played droning repetitive games, this is not one of them! 
  
  Lastly, the ending had/has disappointed many people. Let me say this is a trilogy people! This 
 is only the first game, more are coming. I know it is hard to be patient, and a lot of questions 
 and confusion are/is left in many people's minds when the game ends, but have faith that in time 
 we will know all the answers! For those of you who have finished the game check out this link! 
 It will help you to understand many things about the ending and make it more intriguing! Please 
 only look if you have completed the game, I do not want to spoil the ending for anyone! 
  
  *SPOILER* http://www. computerandvideogames. com/article. php? id=175552 *SPOILER*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Starting Assassin's Creed, it takes a little bit of time getting use to the controls and the story. 
 However, the story becomes easy to follow and the controls turn out to be fluent and original. 
 Assassin's Creeds' graphics are candy for your eyes and shows an unbelievable amount of detail. 
 The voice acting in the game is convincing, though Desmond/Altair's voice might have been a little 
 too plain. There are plenty of things to do, including "Leaps of Faith" and climbing buildings, 
 which are tons of fun to do.
  
  This is why I don't get a lot of critics and reviewers saying the game is too repetitive. The game 
 is called "ASSASSIN'S creed" For those of you haven't figured it out already, an assassin is someone 
 who is HIRED TO KILL. It is completley unfair to say that it is too repetitive to kill people IF 
 THAT'S THE WHOLE PURPOSE OF THE GAME! What else is an assassin supposed to do?!! Escort prostitutes 
 to their pimps? You must keep in mind the main goal of the game and not rush to conclusion by saying 
 "this game iz sooo b0ring im g0nna g0 p1ay halo 3"
  
  Anyway, Assassin's Creed is an underrated masterpiece that must be played if you own an Xbox 360 
 or PS3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theafiguy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is an innovative blend of stealth and action gameplay set during the Crusades around 
 Jerusalem. The hype on the game was immense and it almost killed this game because unfortunately 
 it isn't everything that people were making it out to be.
  
  The story of the game is that you are an assassin named Altair who is trying to regain his rank 
 and status after driving a mission into failure and jeopardizing his fellow assassin brothers. 
 You can go between 4 cities and an area called Kingdom which is sort of a level selection place. 
 You have your safe haven at Masyaf, and then you have Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus. Although the 
 story seems like it was more of an after thought to the gameplay.
  
  The graphics in AC are beautiful, everything shines with brilliance as you pass through the cities 
 and countryside. The cities poor districts look poor and the rich districts look rich. The animation 
 of Altair himself is quite amazing, with every move your clothes and environment react realistically 
 to what you do. The facial animations in the game are fairly well done although there could have 
 been some work on them. With only some low points, the graphics are some of the best out there.
 
  
  The controls in the game are kind of confusing, but once they are learned the game plays with the 
 utmost ease. The only issue with them is how odd they are; every button has about three different 
 actions and each of them are triggered through a base button which brings you to a new set of controls. 
 That sounds confusing right? It is. The best thing about them is that you'll almost never press 
 the wrong button because they are so complex, you always focus on what you're doing. The most graceful 
 thing though is that you switch from normal to fighting modes with the simple press of a trigger. 
 The fighting controls can become even more complex, with button combinations that hit 4 different 
 buttons to do the same action.
  
  The gameplay itself is a wonderfully well constructed system of movements. However, this game is 
 extremely easy... like ridiculously easy. You'll have to do only a select few missions more than 
 once and that would be only because you weren't paying attention. The objectives for your targets 
 are only three things: Pickpocket, Interrogate, and Eavesdrop. Of course you'll do your fair share 
 of killing. Pickpocketing is the only one of the 4 that actually present a slight challenge, in 
 the fact that you have to pay absolute attention to everything that is going on around you. Eavesdropping 
 is as simple as sitting on a bench and pressing Y... WOO! Interrogation is a little tricky, but 
 all you have to do is follow your target to a secluded area and hit him until he gives you in the 
 information. There is one nagging thing about the game that brings it down. You can interact with 
 everything which is nice... but you'll find yourself grabbing the wrong ledge or jumping the wrong 
 direction to grab the wrong ledge. This move can severely irritate and make you shut off you're 
 360 within seconds.
  
  Some of the more innovative things about the game though are the ways that you evade your pursuers 
 when you do get in trouble. There is a little status indication in the top left of the screen that 
 blinks red when you've been spotted and are being chased, it goes yellow when you have broken line 
 of sight with your pursuers. During this time you can either jump into a pile of hey, a box like 
 structure covered in curtains, blend with scholars (who are dressed like you) , run past a crowd 
 of large people, or simply hide in the crevases of buildings. The status indicator blinks green 
 during this time and after about 5 seconds everything returns to normal and you can continue on 
 your way. 
  
  This game is very innovative in several ways but the biggest and most nagging thing about it is 
 that it's just too easy. The lack of objectives and ways to actually accomplish them also makes 
 the game very repetative during times and walking and hiding to everything can make moving 50 feet 
 a 20 minute affair. All in all, Assassins Creed is a great game with shortcomings that are typical 
 with a new style of gameplay. It's worth a buy, but you should check for a used copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldjango
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an action-adventure game from Ubisoft Montreal (makers of Prince of Persia) 
 that puts you in the shoes of master assassin Altair. As Altair you will assassinate 9 political 
 leaders in the year of 1191 and to do that you be running, jumping, climbing and -- most importantly -- assassinating.
 
  
  Story 8/10
  As previously mentioned, you will be playing as Altair Ibn Ahad... but you won't. In a rather perplexing 
 decision, the story actually revolves around a bartender named Desmond Miles in the year 2012 who 
 gets kidnapped by some people from an organization by the name of Abstergo. The reason for the 
 kidnapping is that our DNA holds the memories of our ancestors, and Altair just so happens to be 
 Desmond's ancestor. This still doesn't answer the question of why Abstergo kidnapped Desmond, does 
 it? The answer is that Altair knew where something was hidden and it's very important to Abstergo 
 that they find it. Thus the kidnapping of Desmond. Abstergo plans to stick Desmond in an ancestor-memory-reading 
 device called the Animus to watch Altair's exploits and find out where the object is hidden. This 
 object will come into play later in the story, more than likely in Assassin's Creed's 2 sequels.
 
  Over all, the story is inventive and it's a good bit of fun to see what happens to the ever cynical 
 Desmond and badass Altair.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  It seems that what mainly kept Assassin's Creed from getting out earlier was the awesome graphics 
 engine the game is touting. All the environments in Assassin's Creed are completely life-like and 
 the 3 major cities, Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem are huge. We're talking massive as well as not 
 needing to load outside of the first time you enter the area just before the city gate. They are 
 also brilliantly designed and believable. The textures in all of Assassin's Creed make you wonder 
 if your TV is a conduit to the past and you're actually looking at the places you see on the screen. 
 As for the characters, they are beautifully modeled (Altair especially) and animate greatly. Strangely, 
 Desmond Miles also happens to look like Adam Sandler and his awesome model does nothing to diminish 
 the resemblance. 
  
  Sound 8/10
  I'm going to go with the masses and agree that Ubisoft has a weird thing going with the audio side 
 of its game. Let me tell you why: Altair is the first American-accented, 11th century assassin 
 I've ever heard of. It got less jarring about one assassination in, but you would think with the 
 great voice actors everyone else has, that Ubisoft could've gotten someone with the proper accent. 
 Its not that he's a bad actor, its just the accent... though Altair has the weakest voice, quality-wise, 
 in the game. That's not to account with the ever-present, brain numbingly annoying voices of the 
 beggars (whom we'll get to later) . On the flip-side, the sound effects are nice as is the background 
 music, though you probably won't be hunting down the soundtrack.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Assassin's Creed can be a both fun and enthralling experience or it can be a repetitive and slightly 
 tedious one. The gameplay works in 5 simple steps: Get to a city by way of horseback (after 3rd 
 assassination you'll get a warp option) , find view point in certain district of said city, investigate 
 the assassination target, ice the target, run back to the assassination bureau to finish the mission. 
 This may seem repetitive and... it is. The only side missions would be finding all the view points, 
 saving random citizens around the 3 districts of each city, hunting down 60 hidden warriors called 
 Templars, and collecting flags scattered around the game world. However, if taken in short doses, 
 Assassin's Creed will be the fun and enthralling experience I've mentioned. Jumping around the 
 expansive cities, interacting with the citizens (probably by throwing them around) and killing 
 guards is a good bit of fun and it helps that the combat is also a good deal of enjoyment. When 
 fighting, or attacking of any kind, Altair has access to a hidden blade (retractable knife attached 
 to the place where his left ring finger was) , a long sword, a short sword, throwing knives and, 
 of course, the good old fists. The battle system has only one guard attacking at a time, an interesting 
 decision but not necessarily a bad one. It makes it easier to perform "counter-kills". These are 
 literally cinematic counter attacks that-unless you are using the hidden blade-don't actually kill 
 the attacker 100% of the time. There are a few for each weapon and they look great as well. Luckily, 
 you aren't constricted to counter-kills; there are also your usual one-button combos which have 
 a unique attack of their own called "combo-kills" (counter-kills but offensively) . It's not button-mashing 
 either. There's a button for dodging maneuvers, a button for grabbing/grab breaking, blocking and 
 guard breaking. When you're not in open conflict with people, you can go up to people and assassinate 
 them from any direction (however, you will lose some of your regenerative health if you kill people 
 other than guards and targets (you can punch people without penalty though) ) , toss them, or... whatever. 
 The actions differ when you switch between low-profile and high-profile. This is basically makes 
 it so Altair will be sneaky and assassin-like or take-no-prisoners,  
 respectively. Gameplay as Desmond is pretty much standing around and watching cutscenes... at any 
 rate, the achievements are-for the most part-simple to get. There's an achievement for killing 
 75 people with throwing knives, pick pocketing 200 throwing knives, collecting all the flags from 
 a city, killing all the hidden Templars and performing 50 leaps of faith (jumping from a view point 
 into a bail of hay) .
  
  Overall 8.5/10
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a really good game that, albiet slightly short (clocking in at about 
 10-15 hours with little replay value) , deserves a playthrough by any fans of the action-adventure 
 genre. The battle system is tight, the "platforming" is fun, and the story is interesting. Unfortunately, 
 it doesn't live up to the hype. It tries, but doesn't quite make it. This game might not deserve 
 a buy (depends on the person) but definitely a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXHackettXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most hyped games of 2007. And for good reason, with exciting looking 
 gameplay, where you assassinate people in the day and use crowds for cover rather then darkness. 
 The game turned out great but fell short of its true potential. 
  
  The game is set in the medieval times during the time of the crusades. The environments look great 
 and very historically accurate, with the sense that these cities are alive. This great atmosphere 
 really brings you into the game, and makes you care about what you're doing. This would all be 
 great if it wasn't for the constant trips back to the future (which is the present) . Were you learn 
 that your going to be forced to relive your ancestor's life to help the scientists locate something 
 valuable your ancestor came in contact with. This really adds nothing to the story and I wish it 
 wasn't in the game. 
  
  Once you've master the controllers which shouldn't take to long the game can really get fun. The 
 climbing works great and the crowd controllers are perfect. But this is where I get to a problem. 
 Once you learn the counter attack (LT and X) your almost invincible. You'll be taking out armies 
 of enemies with ease, since they all attack one at a time. This can be fun, but makes the game 
 far too easy. 
  
  The game is long enough with an interesting story but will soon become overly repetitive. Before 
 you assassinate each of your nine targets you must first climb to every tall building and then 
 find the four or so side guests they let you do to gain info on your target. This is fun at the 
 beginning but after a few assassinations you're dreading another interrogation, or someone else 
 you have to pick pocket It seems that every person you interrogate is the same person. Why wouldn't 
 they have a different looking person to interrogate in each city? Or maybe there all identical 
 twins
  
  Overall this game is still great with some of the best visuals out there, but falls very short 
 on its true potential. The story is good but the big plot twist happens in the first few minuets 
 of the game, and adds nothing to the game. And the ending is one of the worst I've ever seen in 
 a game, because there really isn't one. Not to wreck it but you'll find yourself wandering around 
 wondering what you have to do then it ends Assassins Creed is fun but overall just a rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny3ya
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a good game, but i dont think its all its cracked up to be.
  some things could be made harder like when jumpindg accrross poles all you need to do is hold down 
 a button and your away that could of been made alot harder
  it also dosent have xbox LIVE which is a bit of a bore
  the graphics are very poor when it comes 
 to fighting, u hit the cpu with a sword and blood just sprays and dissapears not a mark on him 
 more was needed for the graphics their
  but apart from all that i found the story very interesting which i dont normally this game impresed 
 me although it did not have live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IStKI
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an interesting mixture of many other titles currently on the market. It combines 
 deftly the acrobatic nature of Prince of Persia with a unique atmosphere entirely its own in the 
 form of a quasi-stealth assassination game. However, despite its interesting style of gameplay 
 and incredible graphics, Assassin's Creed grows old very quickly.
  
  As is the style with many other video games (most notably Metroid Prime) , you start the game with 
 a plethora of weapons and abilities and then lose them all early in the storyline. The remainder 
 of the game has you progressing the story while at the same time regaining what you have lost. 
 This idea, while common in the industry, does not work as well in Assassin's Creed, and in many 
 ways is complete nonsense. After each assassination you find yourself gaining either a new weapon, 
 ability, or both. Acquiring a new weapon is on the whole quite satisfying; it provides you with 
 numerous additional ways in which to dispatch foes. However, the lack of variety in the weapons 
 gets old fast (leading me to the combat system in a moment) . On the other hand, you relearn abilities 
 as you progress as well. I'm not really spoiling anything when I say that relearning 'tackle' isn't 
 as earth shattering as one would hope, especially since Altair has no specific reason to suddenly 
 forget how to ram into people in the first place. In a practical sense, these 'abilites' are nonsensical, 
 and from a gameplay standpoint the acquisition of an old ability could have been a great opportunity 
 to instead learn an entirely different, acrobatic move.
  
  The combat system in Assassin's Creed is passable in the sense that it works if fighting is kept 
 to a minimum. Weapon-wise you have your hidden blade, sword, short blade, and fists. In battle 
 the hidden blade only works when used as a Counter, the main sword has a basic combo system in 
 addition to a powered strike, the short blade doubles as a throwing knife, and the fists don't 
 really do much at all. Further, you have the basic 'Counter' moves, in addition to directional 
 throws, but physically you have no other abilities that will aid you in battle. In this way, when 
 you are surrounded by a group of foes, one would expect from a game such as this that your character 
 would put their acrobatic abilites to good use. No. You are left countering and attacking with 
 the X button. While fun in the beginning, after the first dozen times you softly nudge a guard 
 and set him off, you'll quickly tire of the repetition.
  
  Story wise, the game finds you hunting down 9 targets, and for each, you must do a number of minor 
 investigations to unlock the final assassination target. For the first target, this is an interesting 
 concept. You have 3 or 4 different investigation types, and doing all of them greatly aids in the 
 final takedown. However, every single eavesdropping investigation, for example, is exactly the 
 same. There is little to no differentiation between target investigations. For all intents and 
 purposes, you are doing exactly the same investigations for every target, and if you are a completionist 
 and intend to do every investigation, this will become readily apparent. In addition to annoying.
 
  
  Story wise, the story of Altair, in the form of a memory, is a very unique way to reveal a story. 
 However, perhaps the most important part of any story, the conclusion, appears to be missing. In 
 one storyline more than the other. In Altair's story, Altair somewhat satisfactorily ends his storyline. 
 Desmond's story within Abstergo with Vidic, on the other hand, does not. One could argue that there 
 isn't even a cliffhanger. The ending doesn't even exist.
  
  And, in quite possibly the most idiotic move in the next gen of video games, you can only have 
 one save file. GOOD JOB UBISOFT.
  
  In conclusion, Assassin's Creed presents an interesting storyline, wrapped with an engaging atmosphere, 
 incredible graphics, and.... I dunno. Thats about it. With a maximum of ONE save file, no ending, 
 repetitive target investigations, and a redundant and juvenile combat system, Assassin's Creed 
 delivers graphically and technically, but only to a small extent creatively. 
  
  At best I would recommend this game as a rental only. Completion of the first assassination is 
 a complete spoiler for the rest of the game, unfortunately, and total completion time should run 
 out around 15 hours.
  
  OH, and I almost forgot. Collection. Achievements for collecting the 400ish flags scattered thoughout 
 the game world. Oh man, that brings back memories. BAD MEMORIES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElementOfEarth8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome but there are a ew things that upset me. I believe I had my expectations to 
 high for this game. The controls were great, the actions were great and the visual affects were 
 great. But the game play was very repetative and annoying. You do the same thing in every assassination 
 but in different cities. Also you hear the same things all the time, you would think a game with 
 over 400 Non Playable Characters would have other things to say. Also, you see in the opening movie 
 you see Altiar with a crossbow ... i want a crossbow. There needs to be a bigger selection of items 
 to use and make the climbs a little more challenging than pressing up on the joystick. All in all 
 the game was great but the game play needs a little work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiiDeFekTiii
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game. Beautiful in every aspect. The story was good. The worlds were nice. Although 
 I completed ever objective I did not opt to find every flag in the game. 
  By the end of the game I was bored with it all. Don't get me wrong. This is a great game, but leaves 
 you feeling very repeditive toward the end. The AI got harder but I still felt like I was doing 
 the same things over and over and over again throughout the game. 
  
  Altiar moves well in the game. Even prettier then Prince of Persia. The gaurds give you run when 
 you get caught making it hard to escape. If your not careful enough sometimes you end up on the 
 opposite end of the map and find yourself back tracking all the way back to your last checkpoint. 
 
  
  Still give 2 thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anths1987
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I first found out about this game nearly a yr ago back in Jan. 07, and when i did i was instantly 
 captivated by the great music, awesome graphics, and somewhat intruiging storyline. After finding 
 some of the gameplay videos and gave them a look, i was rather impressed by the vastness and more 
 importantly, the stealth aspect, which seemed very rewarding and nevertheless fun to my eyes. 
 
  
  Now that my wait is over, and i finally played the game after waiting nearly 10 months to get my 
 hands on it, i will say that while it is a great game, it is not what I expected. 
  
  First off, the graphics are sheer beauty, the shadows of the characters, to the draw distance when 
 ontop of a large building are a sight to behold. 
  
  Secondly, the sound and music is also very incrediable, at some moments if may make your heart 
 pound, and at others it may make you feel calm and warm inside. 
  
  Sound effects are done perfectly. To the sound of swords clanging together, to guards falling off 
 roofs, and the crowded streets below, it makes you feel like you are in the midst of the Third 
 Crusade. 
  
  However, while this game has MANY good qualities, it still has it flaws, and while some people 
 might disagree with me, for me, it just doesn't feel "right". 
  
  While the control scheme is good for most situations, i can't help but to notice that when climding 
 upon the walls of a building or just a wall, Altair will go in some directions that you wish he 
 didn't , and as a result, you intentions are wasted and you become noticed. 
  
  The fighting is well done, however, there are some times when it may feel somewhat "unresponsive" 
 and it could become slightly frustrating when dealing with multiple guards. To add to the same 
 topic, there are some areas where you are forced to fight your way through to get to your target. 
 By that point in the game, it can start to wear down on you, and become more of a chore to play, 
 rather than entertainment. 
  
  Also, the repeitive nature of the game becomes noticable by the time you get to your 4th or 5th 
 assassination. However, there are ways to make this dim down a bit, by changing your approach and 
 just experimenting with the situations differently than before. 
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is one of the good games of 2007, maybe not the best but still very 
 good. It is a great refreshement to all of the FPS that came out the past yr as well. So if you 
 are looking for something much different than shooter, and you like action/adventure games, you 
 must give this a try at the very least. 
  
  My true rating: 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekRubin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has certainly set new standards in gaming. With it's grand cities, for the most 
 part fascinating story, and slick controls, a new level has been set.
  
  Right away the fluid controls really draw you in. Scaling buildings, and rooftop hopping both always 
 manage to never get old. You feel a great sense of freedom, being able to gather information at 
 your leisure, and being able to explore the kingdom and such. Unfortunately the repetition, as 
 many agree, really held it back.
  
  Really heres the game. You gather information in four ways: eavesdropping (sitting on a bench listening 
 to two people converse) , pickpocketing (following someone around hoping they don't look back towards 
 you as you do it) , interrogating (beating up someone until they talk after following them) , and 
 assisting other guild members in timed exercises doing things like flag collecting (not as bad 
 as it sounds due to the fantastic platforming) and stealth killing guards after them.
  
  All of these things are no doubt enjoyable in their own right, but they suffer hugely because that 
 is basically it. Just collect a certain amount of info, and then go after your target. If they 
 could have added other things to the game to give it a more adventure like feel it could have been 
 an OUTSTANDING game. The game play mechanics are revolutionary. It's just unfortunate it has been 
 applied to 20 hours of doing the same thing.
  
  The action system itself feels great too, and doesn't get old. It's a timing based system, with 
 counters and such providing satisfying ends to your enemies. One of my favorites of those being 
 a punch in the stomach, followed by a spin and a throat slash with the short knife. It could have 
 been a little more in depth with more combos, but it's satisfying and really gets the job done. 
 No Ninja Gaiden or DMC, but it gets the job done in flying colors. It just shows how fluid the 
 gameplay is considering that all you have is counter, grab break, one combo (pressing the attack 
 button again right as you strike the enemy) , defense break, and grab; but it never feels like a 
 chore.
  
  Even with a great system in place, I kept wanting to actually doing something fresh. The only difference 
 is that with each target the information is merely different, and that it's in a different district 
 of each of the three cities. The guards get a bit tougher too. I just felt like I spending all 
 my time roaming through the city following markers if you get my drift.
  
  At the end of the game though it finally does what I've been wanting of it, and the things you 
 do are a lot more interesting. Unfortunately this is like the last 10-15 minutes of the game.
 
  
  The story as well gives you a feeling of it could have been more. Too many questions and not enough 
 answers. You come into the game not knowing anything about anything, and though you get answers 
 and a deal of closure, you really feel like you just didn't get the answers you needed. You can 
 really tell it was constructed as a drop off ending, and it does scream sequel. I just feel it's 
 kind of low to build up to that point, forcing the gamer to play the next game getting the answers. 
 It's all corporate games.
  
  Playing through Assassin's Creed no doubt draws you in with it's huge environments, and fascinating 
 premise. It's overall definitely worth picking up for anyone who enjoys a fascinating premise, 
 and an open ended atmosphere. With a better constructed plot, and more variety, it could have been 
 this generation's RE4 or even I daresay OOT.
  
  Fortunately most developers (excluding Bungie) tend to listen, so we might have a lot to look forward 
 to in #2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Its kinda funny how such a anticipated and polished game can get through with so many tiny flaws, 
 assassins creed is a great game, but falls short of perection
  heres why
  
  Cons: gameplay can get repetitive-storyline is quite confusing due to no subtitles and hard to 
 understand accents-the cutscenes are long, boring and cant be skipped thou they are interactive-load 
 times are ridiculous-combat, thou cool is, at its heart, just button mashing-for such a realistic 
 game some things are just laughabley hard to believe-the cities lack difference and are kinda dull 
 after a while-some ledges look like theyre in reach but really arent-certain people can be kinda 
 frustrating while trying to be stealthy-stealth is kinda hard-the collectibles are pretty much 
 ridiculously tedious and difficult to get
  
  Pros: assassinations are fun and intense-*MILD SPOILER* i like how all the dudes you killed justified 
 their actions-HUGE WORLD-fun sandbox feel to the game-really gives you a bunch of diff descisions-load 
 times are interactive-combat kills are awsome-the weapons are officially sick
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  The hype for Assassin's Creed pre release was ridiculous. Everyone wanted, PS3 fanboys thought 
 they'd be the only one to get it, then it goes multiplatform then it comes out. While great, it 
 fell short from the expectations many had for it.
  
  The positives of Assassin's Creed are many. Its a unique setting that hasn't been done (if not, 
 done a lot) before. A fun twist on stealth gameplay. Gorgeous visuals. Interesting story. And true 
 freedom. There is nothing like being far outside a city and seeing the skyline and all the high 
 buildings knowing that if you wanted to, you could climb up those big buildings. 
  
  While playing the game, it's just fun to stalk your next victim until the time is just right at 
 which point you pull your blade and go in for the kill. It's also fun (though at times frustrating) 
 running from the guards after the kill because well quite frankly, fighting isn't the game's strong 
 point. But all the running sequences are disturbed by one of the games positives oddly enough, 
 the crowd.
  
  All the cities in Assassin's Creed are alive. The streets a literally packed with people who will 
 either help you, screw you up, or just stand in your way while you're trying to run. The graphical 
 quality of everything with the sheer amounts of AI NPCs in the street is something to be marveled 
 at.
  
  That being said, the bad. Most of this has been said before, but it's worth mentioning. The two 
 major gripes I have with the game are, 1. It's repetitive, as in the side missions are pretty much 
 all the same. And 2. Enemy AI is dumb. Thats good in situations where you need to get away, but 
 when you can kill someone and then go in your "Scholar" stance and just walk away with a guard 
 looking at the corpse, thats just pretty bad.
  
  Nevertheless, with some improvements, Assassin's Creed will only become better and reach the level 
 in which the hype set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Well were to begin, as you all know everyone who heard about Assassin's Creed was hypered up but 
 did it life up to everyones standeds? well the answer is NO. I said no because Assassin's Creed 
 isn't really a stealth game as and everybody else had expented. Well you play as Altair a assassin 
 in the late 12th century and u are a cocky guy at the start who shorty gets stripped down to a 
 noob rank and you are in a Metroid game then as you lose all weapons and ability apart from free 
 running. You are tasked with klling nine men who as you play through the game know each other somehow, 
 but the problem with the game is you are not really Altair but Desmond a bartarder who has been 
 kidnapped and put into a machine that reads our ansentor's memory's which is why we play as Altair. 
 
  
  The gameplay is great but has a few problems which is in swordplay, you really don't use your sword 
 yourself as you nearly always really on counter attacks, but the highlight of the game is the free 
 running as Altair moves from building to building fast enough for quick escapes and it is just 
 fun to run from roof to roof. 
  
  Now there is one thing in the game that was just stupid Ubi Soft added flags for you to find everywhere 
 and i mean everywhere there get you acheviements for getting a full set but it has nothing to do 
 with the story which is just strange like The Matrix (first one) is, the ending in the game doesn't 
 make much sense but it will hopefully be explaned in the next Assassin's Creed game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0dazubeN
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  I'm really starting to "feel" the Next Gen games, I know I bought my 360 for games like Halo 3 
 and Bioshock and those WERE next gen, I suppose Current Gen now, but now I'm feeling the stream 
 of Nest Generation flow through my console. 
  
  Assassins Creed has an interestingly enough storyline to keep people interested, you start off 
 as a kind of "Guinea Pig" for this new device that lets you see into your ancestors memories. And 
 thats all you need to know right now, story-wise.
  
  The gamplay is where Assassins creed is at. You have stealth, adventure, free roam, realistic behavior, 
 everything you need in an open world society game. Your character has to perform assassinations 
 for your organization. You have three cities you have to go between, Acre, Damascus, And Jerusalem, 
 all of which ARE MASSIVE, HUGE, LIVING, BREATHING, CITIES. When I say huge I mean it. The areas 
 are dense and full of people, guards, buildings, and shops. The gameplay is fast and fun with and 
 arsenal of cool weapons at your disposal, and each of them are useful, never dull, and serve their 
 purpose, the fighting system is fun with a type of combat which allows for you to be attacked by 
 10 guards at once, and see, watch, and know all you need to protect yourself but without baby feeding 
 you, you have to watch your enemies at all times and decide on what to do best. 
  
  The Assassinations themselves are cool with their own situational moments where you must choose 
 what approach you want.
  
  The Graphics are FANTASTIC, the cities are each their own with different art styles and architecture. 
 Everything is detailed, to the last brick on the last wall.
  
  With a fun and fresh game with great graphics, a fun story and cool ideas, you must be wondering, 
 WHATS WRONG? What I can gripe about is that the save system is a tad annoying and the game's main 
 story isn't very long, the looking around for flags and templars and stuff at each place makes 
 for an annoying and unsatisfying experience in the end. 
  
  But with all it has working for it Assassins Creed is a great experience that you will love from 
 beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoelling
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  First i want to say that this game is great.. love the controls which so many other games falter 
 on like controls and camera angles.. this game is great in those areas... the fighting system is 
 the best i have ever seen in my life... the moves are great and the counter moves even better... the 
 story is pretty good and the graphics on the plasma tv are insane! 
  
  The bad: the ending was really confusing... the achievements for the xbox360 players were horrible 
 i thought... finding flags and things like that dont fit in this game i dont think... i thought they 
 could of done alot more with leveling up so that way u can change and alter your character make 
 it more personalized... also i wish they could of had more enviroments.. u go back to the same towns 
 over and over... otherwise the game was fun.. and i wish it was longer...
  
  i look forward to the next chapter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Assasins creed starts you off playing a man named Altair I think it is if I can spell it right. 
 Anyways your on this mission and then you fail and you get banished and have to do these quests 
 to get back your rank. I won't spoil anything but its just really interesting.
  
  The good --------------------------
  
  Its like hitman but in the medieval days. You stalk your 
 prey wait for a moment then jump out or come behind him and then STAB!!!!!.
  
  It offers a new type of gameplay I have not played a game in this time period like this.
  
 
  It offers freedom to just wonder the city or the kingdom if you want.
  
  You can kill anyone.
  
  The music and the sounds of the people and the town are just really 
 nice. They did an awesome job of making the city's come to life by adding like speakers. Who talk 
 about the crusades and events around then. And you hear people talking to merchants and stuff. 
 And theres just a crap load of people. It really feels like a living breathing town.
  
  If you want you can just run around killing gaurds and speakers.
  
  The graphics are really 
 nice. The first time I got to my first town I climbed as high as I could just to look around and 
 I was like HOOOOLLLLLYYYYYY **** It is just amazing and breathtaking looking. 
  
  The missions are pretty neat they offer a variety of options and different type of stuff. Its not 
 just all killing. Sometimes you listen to conversations, sometimes you assasinate, sometimes you 
 pick pocket. Its really neat
  
  The story is really nice.
  
  The voice overs are phenominal.
  
  I did not run into many bugs which is good.
  
  The 
 
  
  It can get repetative which does suck. It gets boring. Theres not much to do after you beat the 
 game.
  
  The story could of used some tweaking here and there that would of been nice.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  All in all its a very good game that I enjoyed. I would recommend it to fans of hitman, grand 
 theft auto. And pretty much anyone in general. Its just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geger255
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful
  
  If there're games with awesome and strong graphic, Assassin's Creed is delivering the new criteria 
 Beautiful. For its sophisticated reconstruction of the land of Palestine, to the detailed texture 
 of the environment made you felt inside. 
  
  The smooth and detailed movement of Altair, from jumping roof to roof, climbing, assassinating, 
 also gave you the feeling as like Desmond Miles that jumping into the animus. And the historical 
 fact blended in it, became the essence that kept you want to knowing, what was the truth beyond 
 what we already known.
  
  Thought, at one point the game could be felt repeating a pattern, as the tasks from one mission 
 to another is same and the AI kept doing the same activities from time to time, but Assassin's 
 Creed already put a right foundation for its franchise. It's a start of an ambitious project, which 
 always keeps improving on the next sequel. 
  
  My score for the game, 9.0, intended to show my appreciation of the game that's so beautiful, but 
 improvement must be done to the sequel.
  
  So by next year, Assassin's Creed 2.0: Assassinate Harder had taken its place on my list.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazingchoccobo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  great game fags need to shut up!!!!!
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS 
 BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  FAGS BE WARNED
  I KILL 
 
  
   a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a 
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me say that assassins creed is a great game. You are an ex assassin whose memory 
 is being tapped into from his ancestors which just happened to be assassins as well. Without giving 
 to many plot points away this game plays on a lot of very significant historical events. If any 
 gamer friends you have are deeply religious and not open minded they may want to overlook this 
 lol. The graphics on this game are excellent. The environment really takes a great part in the 
 game as you climb view points to survey the area. Climbing those tall buildings doesn't seem such 
 a hassle when you have such a great view to look at when you reach the top. The character models 
 have a nice finish with average npcs looking a little less detailed then main characters which 
 is easily overlooked. The game plays real well and you can chose whether to be sneaky or just straight 
 forward slashing through everyone. Oddly enough both tactics are fun in there own way. It is also 
 easy to find your own style of play for this considering there is difficulty in both tactics. The 
 downfall to this game is it's repetitiveness. After you have done your first assignment you pretty 
 much have played the core of the entire game. Of course as you progress you will gain new weapons 
 and abilitys which make the game playable and combining this with a great story will keep you going 
 throughout the entire game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geist9049
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  assassins creed is a mixed bag of the good and the bad in a game. while the combat and storyline 
 are very entertaining at first. you will quickly notice that the game becomes very repetitious 
 in a very bleak environment. the game is simple. travel to a city, locate the guild. spent an hour 
 saving citizens repeatedly from the same cluster of bad soldiers. while you climb towers to look 
 around. then you do three of six possible investigations which change little over the course of 
 the game besides what is said about your upcoming victim and then go kill said victim. rinse and 
 repeat nine times in three cities. ultimately once you have seen a city. it doesn't get much better. 
 the shock and awe of the size wears off shortly after the first time you have been there. as stated 
 earlier the combat is fun and killing a 25+ guards is easy enough in a fight but when you get to 
 the end of the game. all your skills may be for naught when you face your master and his clones. 
 that being the only point in the game that gave me some frustration. the old coot looks barely 
 strong enough to lift a blade and he tosses you around quite a bit. i suggest you spend your time 
 learning how to use the short sword and throwing daggers to defeat him. thankfully this was a gift 
 and i didn't feel i had invested a lot of money into it verses just going out and renting it for 
 a couple days which would give you plenty of time to win. one other thing.... you never get to beat 
 the scientist to death at the end and oh does he deserve it. i'm willing to rent the sequel just 
 for that opportunity alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  THis game has many good points the its grapphics combat and very good story. But it does get a 
 little repetitive. altair does do many good moves and has many weapons the a sword his fists throwing 
 knives. And he can jump from tall buildings and land in hay. the assassinations are probably the 
 best part of this game. the side quests are good oo but they are the repetive part of this game. 
 But i wont spoil anything about them youll have to expirience them yourself. solid game from begining 
 to end. tthe lighting in this are top notch the sun will sometimes blind you. the beggers are by 
 far the worse part of this game. they chase you jump on you youll be so frustrated you sometimes 
 stab them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveGray
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, a brand new franchise from Ubisoft Montreal, is most likely not what you'd expect. 
 Although the game appears to be set in major cities of the Holy Land in the 12th century, you'll 
 find out in the first few minutes that you're actually in the future, only revisiting these events 
 through the memories of your ancestors. This storyline ties in with gameplay, by giving you a heads-up-display 
 (HUD) and the ability to scan environments to determine who is the crowd are enemies, allies, or 
 those that carry information.
  
  The story is more science fiction than historical fiction, as it involves a group of scientists 
 forcing you to visit the memories of your ancestor and carry out his same deeds, which includes 
 assassinating nine major players, along with whatever else is necessary to carry out the assassinations. 
 The reason why you're involved is unclear, and even upon completion of the game, you're not really 
 sure how you fit in. While you are in control of your character in the future portions of the game, 
 and you are taken back and forth through the various time periods as the story progresses, all 
 of the meat and action comes through essentially what are flashbacks.
  
  In each of the nine missions, you'll start by visiting the Assassin's Bureau to get the identity 
 of your target. From there, you'll have to scale large structures and scan the city, where you 
 will be notified of ways to gather information on your next kill. These mini-quests will show up 
 as icons on your HUD and may include: pick-pocketing, interrogating through intimidation, eavesdropping, 
 or doing favors for an informant. Once you have completed a few of these, you'll get the okay to 
 return to the Bureau and get your final orders. From there, you stalk and kill your target, and 
 then escape as a hoard of guards chase you through the city.
  
  The process is exciting, involved, and fun.
  
  Once.
  
  However, where Assassin's Creed 
 fails is in variety. The first two hours of the game is used learning how to utilize the system, 
 and the meticulously-paced tasks that you're sent to do seem fresh, interesting and tense. But 
 as the game progresses, these things don't change in any way, and they quickly turn to tedious 
 and slow. Information gathering is especially bad, as it's not very difficult or even entertaining, 
 and you just feel like you're going through the motions until you get the green light to kill your 
 target. For example, interrogations consist of going to the general vicinity of the icon from your 
 map, scanning the crowd to determine who you should be listening to, and sitting on a bench nearby. 
 That's it. The others are much the same. Pick-pocketing involves finding the target and walking 
 behind him, holding a button to steal. Interrogations mean waiting for the mark to walk in a secluded 
 area and then punching him a lot. The only exception to these is the informant missions. While 
 these are also the same each time, and have you killing a few people as a favor, it's more challenging 
 and involved.
  
  The nine main assassinations are fun, and each has its own different style. Some are more secluded 
 and you can perform your kill stealthily and almost unnoticed, some require crawling to great heights 
 to gain access, and others lend themselves to a "swords-a-blazing" style. At some point during 
 the hit, you'll most likely be detected and have half of Jerusalem on your ass, so you'll need 
 to escape. This is done by either killing all your pursuers, or running from them, breaking their 
 line of sight, and hiding. You can stow away in piles of hay, tents up on the rooftops, or even 
 in plain sight, if you can find an appropriate crowd or a bench to sit down and blend in.
  
  The combat is decent, and gets better as you go, learning new skills after each of your main 
 missions. You learn to use different kinds of blades, different methods, and even upgrade your 
 damage abilities as you go. The fighting seems choppy at first, but once you begin to unlock some 
 additional moves, it makes a lot more sense and becomes less frustrating.
  
  A lot of the things you'll do requires waiting and patience, but that is made easier because your 
 environment looks fantastic. The game, visually speaking, is top notch, and really shows what this 
 generation of hardware is capable of. On top of its technical merits, the graphical design is also 
 flawless. The buildings, which are all climbable, do not look out of place. The design team did 
 a great job of allowing players to access the rooftops from nearly anywhere, without making the 
 various way to scale the buildings stick out like a sore thumb. The soundtrack is equally great, 
 helping solidify the setting, and the voice acting is not perfect, but passable. As good as the 
 graphics and sound are, the real achievement to this game, and its mark on the industry comes through 
 its character animation, specifically the climbing. It's all done on the fly, and your character 
 reaches and grabs for offset ledges, automatically jumps to graspable nubs. In short, it looks 
 really, really cool, and you, as the player, don't have to do a lot to make that happen.
  
  The whole concept of the sci-fi future starts to tie together with the ending, but it seems confusing, 
 contrived and a difficult way to tell this particular story. I assume that this was done to allow 
 for sequels. If such is the case, Ubisoft can take the player to any time period, in any setting, 
 using this same basic set of controls, and give consumers a brand that will sell like hotcakes.
 
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a very good game, but one that you'll most likely be making yourself 
 finish. It burns twice as bright, but half as long, so to speak, and you'll see all that there 
 is within the first few hours. The quality of the environment and character animations make everything 
 you do look cool, but often fun is sacrificed. At the end, you're left tired of the experience 
 at hand, but hopeful to see how they can expand on the new concepts that they've created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toon9110
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that are just perfect. The difficulty is just right, I mean, perfect 
 in the range. And it gets a bit harder through the game which is awesomly good. Its a very addictive 
 game, very. The way the controlls are set up is just unique. The fighting system is good, and hte 
 kick ass counter attacks, well... they're kick ass. The weapon selection is small, but good. You 
 have your bare fist, the small sword, sword, throwing daggers, and everyones favorite, the hidden 
 blade.
  The gameplay and structure of each city is unique. The structure looks like it came from that era 
 of the city, with the windows and style of it. And some thing that makes the game special is the 
 drunks and the poor people, but they may get a bit anoying some times. But one of my favorite parts 
 of the games is when you reach the top of the veiw points of the game. But the most disapointing 
 part of the game is the ending. I hope there's a sequal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theclint
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  i was excited to get this game ever since hearing about it in Q1 2006. was promising and didnt 
 fullfil what i expected
  
  Graphics: The graphics and art in this game are mindblowing, good job to jade. The character models 
 and enviroments look great. Even the cloud shadows are great. 9/10
  
  Sound: The sound is great, as well as the score. You really feel like your in it when you here 
 the gaurds trying to find you. As well as the civilians when you bump into them. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game should truly shines, but fails to. the first few hours are great, 
 but the repitition is annoying. the same combat moves and the same objectives over and over. pickpocketing 
 and listening in shouldnt always be the only way to assisinate someone. the assassinations where 
 amazing though.
  6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vysethethird
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I will say that this game does define some good attributes. Breathtaking graphics, responsive controls, 
 and a interesting story. For a game, it has all the components for a great classic one, but the 
 flow is repetitive. 
  
  
  The graphics do wonders, making the game somewhat realistic looking. Sure, it isn't all detailed, 
 but i doubt it would be on the market if the gore was shown with each kill. So all in all, 10/10 
 for graphics. 
  
  
  Controls are excellent, crafted well to handle jumps and grasping certain edges after one point 
 in the game, and make combat less frustrating, even after when the game throws numerous enemies 
 at you at once. 10/10 for controls. 
  
  
  Now the story, yeah, no spoilers, have to play. Why? Cause I rather people see it for themselves. 
 9/10 though for it. 
  
  
  Sound. While there isn't much music, the audio fits the game greatly with dialog that is not so 
 modern and well placed here and there. From the beggers in the streets, to the cry of 'infidel' 
 from guards. So 10/10 for sound. 
  
  
  
  Now, the downfall.
  
  
  The problem i have is how the game flows. The first and second blocks are mere training parts, 
 but three through five, you will find yourself going through a cycle that goes like this: "Task 
 given, head to city, seek information in 4 ways by either pickpocketing, eavesdropping, interrogate, 
 or by doing a task for a informant, report this to a fellow personnel, track down target, then 
 slay them after they do horrible act, then get back to fellow personnel to report it."
  
  
  Sure, some games have some cycle they follow, but a game never had this much repetition in 
 gameflow. This is what makes up most of the game, with some small parts. I could compare it to 
 Megaman X, where you have the intro level, the 8 mavericks to fight, then the final levels and 
 a fight with Sigma, but that game saga had some variety at least. This just seems to rinse and 
 repeat the process. 
  
  To be clear, this is like watching an episode of the original "Fist of the North Star" series, 
 where it has the same sequence of events through every episode. 
  
  
  To be clear, the game has a nice look to it, but it repeats way too much. I have to greatly agree 
 with EGM on the rating, the game is very repetitive. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballer85257
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  This game is unbelievable. Graphics are great, story line is great, game play is great. It just 
 doesn't get much better then this. This game is a definatly a buy and a game that u'll play over 
 and over. I haven't played a game that i enjoyed this much since gta 3. I would of gone out and 
 bought the game instead of waiting till xmas if i new it was this good. Ok, ok, enough build up 
 already but you won't be let down. Your an assasin with a heavy work load that you won't be dissapointed 
 by the ending. They could of left out the whole modern day part of the story but it was a nice 
 twist. If you don't own the game already, go out an buy it. Definatly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visnovsky17
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. It kept me busy for hours on end until i finished. I played nearly nonstop since 
 christmas and finished it about a week later. The gameplay is a bit repatitive, but this is helped 
 along by the fact that you get new moves and weapons to fight with after every assassination. i 
 never got tired of assassinating and/or counter attacking in battles. another thing people have 
 complained about is having to ride down the mountain to get anywhere, but i found all the kingdom 
 viewpoints and after i had been everywhere could just teleport. the storyline was a little bizzare 
 but seems to set up for a sequel set in present times. the ending made sense to me, and was very 
 open ended. and the text on the ground creates a lot of intrigue if you can figure out how to interpret 
 it (gamefaqs. com has a faq that will) . so overall it was a very enjoyable playing experience. the 
 music was awesome and added to the mood and feeling no matter what you are doing. the graphics 
 were ok, but even on HD could have been a lot better ( i noticed almost no difference between HD 
 graphics and regular) . I would reccomend this game to anyone who wants one of the big games from 
 last fall (get this over mass effect) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, the latest and greatest from the Prince of Persia team, pushes the envelope of 
 te adventure genre. As protagonist Altair, you travel the world of the Third Crusades completing 
 missions and assignments given to you by the master of your guild.
  Throughout the game, as Desmond Miles, you are forced to recover your ancestor's, Altair's, memories 
 so that the present-day Templars can find their treasure that was stolen in Altair's time. As you 
 take control of Altair, the world of Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus, and everything in between, is at 
 your fingertips. As you assassinate the nine main Templars, you regain some of your abilities and 
 weapons.
  The entire concept of the story is very interesting and compelling, until the ending, where the 
 present-day Templars have the locations of all the treasures and leave you in the facility to do 
 whatever. That, is the ending. There is no true end cutscene or anything. It's kind of like an 
 episode of Heroes, where you must think and wonder for a week about what the heck is going to happen 
 next, but this time, there is no next episode to look forward to that soon.
  The controls of Assassin's Creed are very fluid and sharp, with the pulling of the right trigger 
 changing the style of your gameplay. The slower stealthier gameplay takes place when you do not 
 hold down the right trigger. This type allows you to walk around and blend in with the environment. 
 The faster free-running takes place as you pull the trigger. You can run, climb, swing, and traverse 
 the rooftops.
  The visuals of Assassin's Creed are truely revolutionary. as you climb viewpoints in the world, 
 new areas that you can travel to become visible. The climbable surfaces of the cities are completely 
 disguised with the architecture. The climbing is so fluid that you learn to pick out the most inonspicuous 
 places to get up a wall, or hide from the guards.
  The music is very consuming. It takes the player's involvement in the game to a whole new level. 
 I truely feels and sounds like you are Altair in this world that is around 800 years in the past. 
 It sounds like the music is coming from people playing it for money in the street.
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a very well put together game with many innovations, such as controls 
 and gameplay mechanics. It is a must play, even though the ending of the extraordinary experience 
 is a little shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemon25dre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game even though long cut scenes made you lose intrest, killing people made it 
 all worth it. There was a great disapointment in the game. So I'll just break it to you now. Only 
 4 weapons! If they come out with a sequal thaey should make at least 10 weapons only at the minumum 
 but I have to admit jumping of and onto buildings was cool but eagle diving into hay never got 
 old. You would just want to keep on climing the same tower over and over just to jump off again. Personally 
 the X-box 360 has the best graphics so that made the game that much bettter. All and all this was 
 a great game so when I beat it I just played it again. I'm going to hope for a sequal with more 
 weapons and I hope you enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmare502
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This was a good game. Graphics were excellent. Controls were simple to use. . Performing kills 
 was always fun. The game had a great storyline I liked the side story you could discover during 
 modern time. I think one of the best parts of the game was climbing and leaping from building to 
 building. The assassin's knife was one of the funnest ways to assassinate your targets. 
  
  Unfortunately, there was one thing that held this game back. It was extremely repetitive. Every 
 level had you performing the exact same tasks. In some areas, you would perform the same tasks 
 multiple times. And there was no real reward for performing all the tasks in an area. The game 
 could have used a little more variety.
  
  Overall, it was a good game. Great visuals and sound. Compelling story throughout. Great gameplay. 
 Fun to play. The only real negative was the constant repetition in tasks you needed to complete. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_bone221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Yes, yes people say it is repetitive and i aint going against that. But it has a well balanced 
 mix of quests and activities to do throughout it other than just assassinating you main objectives. 
 Involving good fighting, exploring, saving civilians, even some assassinations in the side quests. 
 This game has a great storyline and i dont think it is ruined in the beginning at all and might 
 suprise you in the end. Also another one of the game's strong points is its wide range of exploration 
 value. Just to climb everywhere, on anything sticking out 2 inches or more is amazing! Looking 
 around is beauty in its self. Sometimes you'll find your self doing various other things other 
 than the main quest. A great and must by. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SRC_319
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an enjoyable, very fun, yet very repetitive game. You play as the main character, 
 Altair, and you are sent on missions to assassinate your target in order to regain your status 
 in the brotherhood. You find out why you lost your rank in the beginning of the game, so I wont 
 spoil it for you, you can find out on your own! The world in the game is huge, the horse-back riding 
 is pretty cool, the voice-acting isn't bad, and the sword fighting is probably the best experience 
 i've had with sword fighting, so that part of the game should not let you down!
  
  Starting out with the graphics, they're amazing. As I always make sure I state this in my reviews 
 so people know, I play on a SDTV and the graphics are simply amazing. I've seen and heard other 
 reviews with people who played this game on an HDTV, and they talk about how amazing the game looks, 
 and im sure that they're everything that the people say they are, because playing on an SDTV it's 
 still amazing. You can see the blood squirting from your enemies perfectly, you can see the dust 
 picking up greatly when your riding through the world with your horse. The graphics should not 
 let you down!
  
  Voice acting isn't bad either. I don't think it was great and I dont think it was bad. I guess 
 it was just right, but i've deffinetly played other games where I thought that voice acting was 
 better. I dont really know what it was about the voice acting I didn't like, it may have been the 
 cast they chose for it, im really not sure. All in all, it wasn't dissapointing or anything, and 
 it didn't lead me away from the game, so it isn't a big deal.
  
  The fighting in the game is one of the best i've ever encountered. The sword fights were alot of 
 fun, and although it seemed like your character was unstoppable, it was still very enjoyable. You 
 will be very happy with the fighting in this game!
  
  The game was just about the right length for me though. I didn't go around searching for hidden 
 things or anything like that, so the main story took me a little over 8 hours to complete. Although 
 the game was short, it was just right for me. The repetitiveness of it kind of made the game get 
 boring. If the game was any longer than 10 hours, I think I may have gotten bored of it. So, I 
 think with the things your given to do in the game, the lenghliness of it was just right.
  
  Overall, I think it was a great game, one of my favorites for the 360. Although it did have 
 a couple of things I think it could work on, which are the voice acting and more things to do. 
 And if they gave you more things to do, then the game would have to be much, much longer. With 
 the time I spent on this game, it was overall an enjoyable experience, but I don't think i'd replay 
 it again. I already know what happends, but I will surely be picking up the second one, as this 
 is supposed to be a trilogy. I'd like to see what happends in the rest of the game, and I think 
 if they improve on a few minor things then this could seriously be one of the best games on the 
 ps3/360. Other then the few flaws I mentioned, the story was great, and I am looking forward to 
 seeing what happends in the future. All in all, I would say you should deffinetly take a look at 
 this game, even if you just rent it. Give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: My_Name-Keyes
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  The best game ever i love it good job guys and the graphics are just fantastic and really really 
 great i love the game so much it blows my mind and the gamplay is just great the you can just assassinate 
 a person is really cool money well spent on this if you see on shelves you buy it and if there 
 sold out which they probly are order one love it so buy it today and open a world of fun that is 
 know as assassins creed . assassins creed is perfect for every gamer very violent lots of action 
 and jam packed full of people to kill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Before i start as i shall say this, this is an awesome-ish game, it's never to reinvent gaming 
 revoloutionize the 360, but it's a good game.
  
  I was really looking forward for this game since february 2007, I was geared up for the best medieval 
 RPG since 2001. So was everyone else as well.
  
  For the first 2 hours or so this game was that, it was fast paced, huge, brilliant scenery and 
 realistic. Then it merely became tedious.
  
  After about 4 hours of admiring the beautifuly sculpted Holy Land I realised that it all looked 
 the same. Same old tree, same old frontier towns.. same old everything. 
  
  The nine assassinations have enough variety between them, it the 'investigation' parts whee this 
 game falls on it's arse. After 2 or 3 you feel that you're just repeating yourself.
  
  The 8 is for the 2 or 3 hours that I really enjoyed myself, shame about the rest, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tto55619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most graphically stunning games i have ever seen (tied with TES4: Oblivion) , 
 honestly i have never seen a better view than standing on a 600ft tower looking down on a small 
 11th century town.
  
  Anyway, assassin's creed is pretty obvious, you go around slicing and dicing.... yes? no. 
  you 
 can choose to be shadow... but that is boring and slow. I reccomend running around , dodging guards 
 and slowing down before your targert, approach him and slice his neck with your hidden blade (the 
 coolest weapon EVER)
  But there is also a sci-fi thing to it... you are Dezmond, a 21st century assassin, 'captured' 
 by the templars (your enemy in the 10th century)
  but there not wearing funny helmets anymore :D.... they put you in an 'animus' to relive your past 
 as alitair.
  If this confused you, do not worry, i had no idea what the hell was going on until my 2nd playthough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed
  
  Assassins creed is a 3rd person action game in which you play Altair, an assassin who has failed 
 in a task and must regain his rank by assassinating his targets.
  
  The Good:
  
  In the game you can jump from building to building and in the game you can climb every single stand, 
 house and castle, the climbing in the game is very well done and it smooth and flawess as you climb 
 up huge buildings.
  
  The combat is very fun and the counter moves that you can learn later in the game are very brutal 
 attacks that have to be seen.
  
  Assassins creed has a very good story and is really easy to get into and the story keeps you guessing.
 
  
  It has been announced that there will be 2 more games in the assassins creed fanchise.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Once you finish the game you cant really go back and explore, if you want to 
 go back after the game you can only go to key moments like assassination attemps etc.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall Assassins Creed is a must have game for any 360 owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakikiu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game dindn't just break the mold, IT COMPLETELY @$*#@$% SHATTERED IT! If you have ever owned 
 a third person adventure game, ie. grand theft auto, be ready to see a completely interactive environment, 
 few bugs or glitches and a game that will try your patience forever. Drunks and madmen randomly 
 punch you, guards are quite alert to suspicious activity. All I have left to say is that Ubisoft, 
 you PWND AND I MEAN PWND THIS STYLE OF GAME. I am pleased with the fact that you can create your 
 own soundtrack for this game, oh the possibilities! WOW THIS GAME IS SO NEAR PERFECT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foddle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 8/10
  Sound 9/10
  Gameplay 7/10
  Longevity 3/10
  Plot 7/10
  
  I'm going to keep this review short, as anyone who give a damn about this game already knows how 
 it works.
  
  Now when ubisoft got down to talk about creed, they probably said this : "lets make a game that'll 
 get us a lot of money, AND good reviews, with amazing cities, but lets not put in TOO much effort"
 
  
  you see, creed is a game which is really, really fun for about a few hours, and then the boredom 
 sets in... luckily by this time all the official review had left the press and it was too late, 
 so here we go - a review from someone who has played the game for long enough to comment on it...
 
  
  Firstly , the cities are amazing, the combat is cinematic and nicely brutal, and the plot is passable, 
 if a little unorigional...
  so wats wrong ? 
  
  well, after some time , everything is just the same .. the same few different types of guard, civilian, 
 objective, fight.. etc.. ect.. . sure, at first it's great but after a while it's really, really 
 boring to play. who can be bothered to get all of the save citizens, or the spot heights, or the 
 hundreds of flags added as an afterthought to try and add replayabilty .. or something..
  
  now the whole animus idea was cool, but if anything the gameplay needed a bit LESS freedom, and 
 a few more scripted, cinematic moments as in the beginning of the game, and less of "find the  
 to/collect FLAGS (i mean, wth , is this a platformer game now, you're meant to be an assassin) 
 for the informer". .and repeat at leasty 3 times to unlock an often well scripted assasination, 
 which is always fun but somehow never quite as good as the trailer....
  
  So in the end it gets more interesting again, but it's just fighting.. and fighting the same way 
 as you do ever since you unlock counter attacks.. ie you hold block to make yourself invincible 
 and press x when someone attacks you.. and it dosent take "timing", as people claim. the truth is 
 that you pick it up in 2 minutes and the use it for the whole game.
  
  Now onto the difficulty.. well, anyone who says that this game isnt too easy needs to rethink their 
 life.. .i mean, you have too much (recharging) health, a too easy way to kill people and a nice 
 friendly thing that tells you when guards are around.. this isnt classic splinter cell or theif, 
 this is a VERY watered down version of the genre.
  
  The graphics are pretty, no doubt, but again, the limitations creep in with experience. eagle vision 
 makes the good environments look ugly and at a distance objects in the game have very little detail. 
 of course, the graphics are very pleaasing on the eye in general with great shadows, textures, 
 and environments, which is why i rated them as an 8, as they are far more than passable. plus the 
 game looks much nicer than its ps3 brother, which is a little washed out in colour. The animations 
 are also a large part of this, as they are incredibly high quality, but theway that the guards 
 freerun ( ie the same way as you) is just annoying, especially when the "perch", eagle like, on 
 walls. . come on ubisoft, they're guards, not extreme freerunners.. they're meant to be slow, comparitively 
 malcoordinated , and fun to kill.
  
  But the sound is special. this redeems the game for me as when you walk the streets of the cities 
 or climb to the highest towers the sound is incredibly immersive. The music, by the same composer 
 as heard in the Hitman games, is brilliant.
  
  Now of course many people will argue that this game deserves better, but play it for long enough 
 and ubisofts laziness shows through. some details are there, many are not, and it's the details 
 that make a game like this. 
  To be honest it's a hard game not to recommend, but rent it rather than buy it.. it's not worth 
 40 by any stretch of the imagination.
  
  (played in HD on a 360, so no excuses ubisoft ;) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic777777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of if not my favorite games of the year! Now here if you had a passion for 
 the Prince of Persia series you'll absolutely love this game as well! Sure it may be repetitive, 
 but to me it's fun repetitiveness. I just can't get enough! The closest resemblance to this game 
 I could think of is that of the Spider-Man 2 movie game, I must say this is far funner in almost 
 every way, but ultimately on the same premises. There is something really fun about climbing, running, 
 and jumping throughout the many fantastic building's and luscious landscape of this game! The story 
 is really very intriguing along with it also! You'll just have to play it, I can't tell you about 
 it, you just have to play it for yourself! Maybe if the game had more variety and better cut scenes 
 it would have been perfect, but non the less a must play game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackspycool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is so breath taking. The views, the blood, and the graphics. The button scheme is so 
 perfect you can't mess up. The game makes sense. The difficulty is just perfect, but the training 
 was a bit disappointing, and the one file. I made a profile for my friend and it deleted mine. 
 So this was a hard decision but I have to rate a 9.5. Because of the long beginning and the long 
 training. Remember if you want me to rent a game at all just tell me the game and I will play it 
 and rate it plus it is free. My email address is zachdark@gmail. com. Thanks you
  
  
  All Rights Reserved ZB Industries 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SARGE3D
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  if you don't have this game and your a RPG'er thats hardcore, this is the game for you, 10 star 
 rated. you have many challanges, unlock your achivements. be prepared to fight, be social or you 
 could get kill. you don't want to alert the red guards by doing your missions. must be cool in 
 this game or you will die, this is the first RPG i have ever played and really enjoying it. hope 
 all who like RPG'd,, this is the game to get. big maps, lots of adventures. think before you act. 
 always pay attentemtion to the story line, it helps 100%. get you flags from all sections, kill 
 all guards that is required, be careful and not to kill the innocent people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdemoboy52
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  
  Well, well, well, the long anticipated Assassin's Creed. Played it, beat it, thought it was great 
 but just one problem: repetition. Now don't get me wrong this is a GREAT game! The graphics are 
 fantastic, the controls are great, and the gameplay is fluid. The storyline is a bit different 
 but after the first couple of missions it starts to make sense. But the repetition is just annoying. 
 The first three missions are great but after that it's the same thing over and over again. The 
 game does try to add some spice to itself with different types of objectives but it falls short. 
 The objectives have all been done before and they usually suck in the other games that have tried 
 it. Now on to a positive note, the graphics. Oh my God! These graphics are so great! I didn't get 
 a chance to play it on my HDTV but even on SD it's something spectacular. The way they lay out 
 the cities and the way they have them looking, perfect! Also, the voice-acting is great! Everything 
 the people say, and how they say it sounds and looks real. The storyline, like I said, is a bit 
 unusual but it works. I think, from the ending, there will be a sequel. In fact, I'd be surprised 
 if there isn't! I won't spoil anything but the way they ended it didn't really answer all the questions 
 and leaves off like the end of a TV show would at the end of the season. The game does take a while 
 to beat, however. If you're like me, you'll want to go for all the side quests (which I did by 
 the way, just to get the achievements) and that will add about 1 to 2 hours of gameplay. The game, 
 without the side quests, will take about 6 to 8 hours to beat. Maybe longer, that's just a estimate. 
 This game is a definite rent but if looks really appealing to you, then definitely buy. Chances 
 are you'd be better off buying it cause you'll probably rent it more than once. Luckily for me, 
 my friend let me borrow his copy. So I'm good there because I'm not going to play it again because 
 I got other games but if it looks really good then buy it. If not, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeah_write
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  After months of teasers and speculative trailers, Assassin's Creed's great secret has finally been 
 revealed. Yes, believe what you've heard, the game is in fact repetitive. Even though it may be 
 a monotonous experience at times, most will find a few pleasant surprises along the way.
  
  While Ubisoft tried to play coy with the story leading up to the release, it wasn't hard to spot 
 the strange sci-fi influence in the game. It turns out that Assassin's Creed has two storylines, 
 one in the clean sterilized real world, and another in the memories of Altair. Both stories drop 
 enough twists and keep the player involved, but unfortunately only one of them gets resolved, while 
 the other is left wide open for the expected sequel. Still, the game wears its sense of intrigue 
 well and does an admirable job of propelling you through the monotony, despite the anticlimactic 
 ending.
  
  As for the repetition, it's definitely there and it does hurt the score a bit, but it's not a deal 
 breaker by any means. The game is set up similar to most sandbox/open world games. You visit a 
 city, you complete missions to advance the storyline, and then a new city or area is opened to 
 you. The lack of variety in the missions available is what makes the game stale. You will have 
 seen every thing the game has to offer within the first city. It would have been nice to see some 
 more missions introduced later in the game, or maybe have a few stipulations placed on the ones 
 already available, like having to pickpocket a thief on the run, or ambushing a group of soldiers 
 transporting an informant. There are more areas to explore, new techniques and weapons to earn, 
 and secrets to be found, but the core of the game doesn't change much. That's where the story, 
 and more importantly the controls come in.
  
  Assassin's Creed uses a puppeteer control scheme that makes you feel less like you're inputting 
 commands and more like you're steering an intelligent program. It doesn't sound like it would be 
 much fun, and Ubisoft took a gamble, as it could have easily slid into something too robotic, but 
 they managed to hit the perfect balance of player input and computer automation. By just holding 
 a few buttons you can effortlessly scale walls, swing from poles, race across rooftops and more. 
 The controls keep the game fresh, skipping across rooftops and climbing dangerously high towers 
 never gets old. It's an exhilarating experience that's aided by the incredible scenery. Based on 
 real world locations, the gorgeous cities act as playgrounds for Altair without looking too obvious. 
 There are a few conveniently placed carts of hay, but for the most part, the cities feel like real 
 cities, complete with marketplaces, town squares, churches and more. In other words this isn't 
 like a Tony Hawk game, you won't see an oddly placed skate ramp in the middle of a village. The 
 objects that Altair can interact with are seamlessly blended into the scenery, and it really helps 
 sell the experience and immerse the player.
  
  While stealthy assassination is the name of the game, Altair will frequently have to battle it 
 out with a group of attackers. Just as they did with the free running controls, Ubisoft took a 
 gamble and placed all of the combat maneuvers on one button, a scheme that works well, but could 
 have used a little more. Pounding on the attack button in different ways will yield different attacks, 
 while a counter move and block serve to spice up the action and move combat along. With three different 
 weapons and several entertaining, brutal animations, the combat is fun to watch, but not always 
 a blast to participate in. The sketchy enemy AI can be a chore to battle. Twelve men may surround 
 you, but they'll each take turns striking at you, most of the time. In some rare instances your 
 enemies will go crazy and pummel you with unmanageable blows. Altair could have also benefited 
 from a few more acrobatic moves, as the combat feels a bit stiffer than the fluid free running.
 
  
  The questionable AI isn't confined to the combat either. Sometimes bumping into a guard will cause 
 a full alert while other times simply running past him will. It's possible to murder a person in 
 the middle of a crowd and walk away as if nothing happened, but sometimes if you throw a knife 
 three stories up and stealthily kill a guy the whole city goes on the hunt. And running from pursuers 
 is a joke when cutting a corner and sitting on a bench can fool the AI. These strange instances 
 are only frustrating because they pull you out of the immersive experience the game works so hard 
 to create. Like the repetitive missions, the inconsistent AI isn't a deal breaker, but it sure 
 is annoying.
  
  On the plus side the graphics are absolutely stunning. Each city has a colored filter that gives 
 it its own personality. There's the dusty yellows of Damascus, the drab blues of Acre and the proud 
 greens of Jerusalem. There's also a connecting hub called the Kingdom that beautifully replicates 
 ancient Mediterranean landscape. The scenery is a joy to behold and a pleasure to explore, whether 
 on horseback or on rooftops. The cold, clean laboratories from the real world portions are also 
 nicely done and help set the mood for the story. The characters also look great, and as you would 
 expect from the developers of Prince of Persia, they animate smoothly and realistically. 
  
  The sound design is as expertly crafted as the visuals. The music is epic and it builds in 
 all the right places, and the voice acting is top notch. The accents and languages for each location 
 are spot on, with Altair sounding appropriately out of place with his modern American accent. The 
 cities sound alive with chatter from the citizens and crowds in the markets. The only misstep with 
 the sound would be the repetitive phrases spouted by the guards and citizens, but other than that, 
 the game sounds as great as it looks and plays.
  
  Overall
  If you're a fan of the Prince of Persia series, parkour, or action-adventure games you owe it to 
 yourself to play Assassin's Creed. The game has its flaws, but the high points-the incredible free 
 running, beautiful graphics and intriguing story-make it worth a play through. A normal play through 
 will take 10 to 13 hours, though you can get much more out of the game by completing every mission 
 and searching for hidden flags. It should be noted that the repetition is only as bad as you make 
 it. If you want to complete everything, you're in for a more monotonous experience than someone 
 that just wants to casually play through the game.
  
  Purchase?
  This game is definitely a must buy if you're an action-adventure fan, but if you're nervous about 
 the controls or the repetitiveness you can probably get enough from a rental. Either way, it's 
 a game that should not be missed and an experience worth the wait.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smuggler2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, one of the best games since Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. The story is one of 
 the best I've ever seen in my life. The fights were spectacular with a counter here and a grab 
 there, and then whoosh! Go in with the hidden blade and end that soldier's life. The free-running 
 idea was pure genius. You could run up a wall in an alley, jump across to the opposite wall, grab 
 onto a window sill, climb to the roof, and hide in a bale of hay. I really enjoyed those sequences, 
 where you were outnumbered, but had a good chance of blending and hiding. Repetitiveness was seriously 
 avoided by switching cities for each assassination. The idea of investigating was also well put 
 together: a pickpocket here, an informer there, interrogate someone for information... and voila!!! 
 You are set to kill. Finally, one of the most well thought story lines in history pulled this game 
 together to form a true masterpiece!!! The only downside is that critics are going to dye trying 
 to find something wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGravy02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed met all my expectations, but it's not very re-playable. For the time it took to 
 finish the game originally, though, was a very good experience. It had a story unlike any I have 
 ever seen, dwelling on the Creed's background and how it still exists in the future. The gameplay 
 is very intuitive having a whole different set of controls seperating socially acceptable and unacceptable 
 behaviors. This made the AI easier to understand for a new player, showing them that running and 
 tackling civilians is an easy way to blow your cover. The main assassinations are very fun and 
 teach the player more and more about the developing storyline and Altair's realization of what 
 is really going on behind the Crusades. If this first installment was any indication of things 
 to come, I could see the next 2 games in this trilogy being some of the best games we have ever 
 seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I held off getting this game to finish Mass Effect and wasn't sure about getting a game based on 
 stealth elements, I don't have too much luck with those games. But I really was hooked by the beautiful 
 presentation of the game and that it didn't punish you too badly if you failed the stealth portion 
 of it. Assassin's Creed was a lot of fun and kept me busy for awhile. I have a few things I didn't 
 like and since I am sure they are going to have a Assassin's Creed 2 these are things they could 
 fix. Flags... I hated the flags, finding em or running after them during a timed mission... I don't 
 mind collection quests but the hundreds of flags you could be finding in this game was silly. Also 
 the missions, helping citizens and climbing viewpoints got repetitive. Maybe some variety, mixing 
 a mission and finding a viewpoint? Something, by the end of the game I just did the minimum missions 
 to start the assasination. Other than that fantastic game and I look forward to the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtreamWolverine
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  It's not often that I come across a game that isn't hugely disappointing, and it is even less likely 
 that I should come across a game that had me as enthralled as this one.
  
  This game really feels like the natural successor to the Prince of Persia trilogy, as it encompasses 
 a lot of the aspects of it's predecessors (e. g. wall running, climbing buildings and sword battles) 
 but also expands on them and makes them more of a natural occurrence rather than something that 
 is used only when needed and, in Prince of Persia, could probably kill you if you used it at the 
 wrong time.
  
  The huge landscapes are detailed down to the tiniest cracks in the rocks which your character, 
 the masterful assassin Altair, can use to climb the highest of buildings.
  
  Unlike in Prince of Persia, where the ledges and things to grab on to occasionally feel out of 
 place, in Assassin's creed every crack, every decoration and addition to the landscape which helps 
 your character travel about the game, feels totally natural and perfectly placed to add even more 
 depth to the graphical aspects of the game.
  
  The characters are also very well modeled, and although your character's clothes can sometimes 
 look odd in the way they move or their edges, he more than makes up for it with the intense detail 
 of his head, hands, amour and even his hood and weapons!
  
  The wide landscapes also mean a lot of characters, from religious/political preachers who seem 
 to love the fact that there are thousands dying in the crusades even though they are on the side 
 of those being attacked to the poor beggars who follow you around so persistently everyone seems 
 like a natural character for the time and place you are in and everything feels so real.
  
  This is definitely a must have game that any collection needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneidamedic
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Like Ninja Gaiden, Prince of Persia, but better. Jumping on walls is cool and all but this adds 
 in silent killings! There was a bad transition to part II, though. Seems like they were just tired 
 and said "I'm done". I do like the history and the legit scenes. I really like the authentic feal 
 to the land and the story. Although, in this day and age, jihad games are kind of iffy. Im still 
 not sure if the whole future looking back thing was needed. It also was way too long to start the 
 game. I know the controls are a little more complicated, but it should have a training mode to 
 cut down on the tutorial and begining story. I tried to start over to play it again and gave up 
 because of bordom. Once you get started, say good bye to your love ones for 20-30 hours! If this 
 game had a level up feature it would be a 9.5-10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  + Graphics are very stunning
  + A great combat system
  + Open adventure lets you do things different every time
  + Great Storyline
  + Side objectives 
 such as flags and rescuing citizens add replay value
  + Citizens and soldiers have a more realistic feeling to them
  
  The Bad:
  - Gameplay doesn't 
 change much as the game goes on
  - The ending is confusing
  
  Assassin's Creed is simply one of the best games so far in the new gaming era. It is a great game 
 from start to finish, with beautiful graphics, easy controls and a huge storyline and adventure. 
 It will be remembered for years.
  
  Assassin's Creed actually takes place in the near future. It is the year 2012, and you are Desmond 
 Miles. You have been taken by a scientist and his assistant Lucy, and have been put in a machine 
 that shows memories of ancestors. The ancestor that the animus (the machine) is reading is that 
 of Altair, an assassin who was around during the Third Crusade in the Middle East.
  
  In the Middle East, you take control of Altair, and are given nine people to assassinate for certain 
 reasons, like showing cruelty and greed. There are three cities that you must visit, and all are 
 visibly different. The first is Damascus, a desert city that has an ancient feel to it with its 
 Middle-Eastern theme towers and buildings. It is really sunny and looks nice, especially when you 
 go up its tall towers. The second is Acre, which was taken over by crusaders and when it is in 
 the poor district, it looks really poor, due to destruction. It also has a hint of blue to it, 
 adding to the feel. However, it also has a nice fortress and a citadel, as well as a harbor, so 
 when it is in the rich district, it looks really nice. The third is Jerusalem. With its green look, 
 the Dome of the Rock, gardens and Cathedral, it is arguably the best looking city.
  
  In these cities, there is plenty to do. You must do several investigations to learn about your 
 target, such as if he has guards defending him, his bravery level (whether he'll fight back or 
 just run away) or if he's doing anything special on that day. You do this by pickpocketing people 
 of maps or letters that they have, eavesdropping or helping an informer that will give you tips 
 on your target.
  
  Also, you don't need to jump right into the investigation. You can complete the map of the district 
 you are currently in by climbing view points, rescue citizens, fight guards or just simply roam 
 freely around the city. You can also do side quests such as flags and eliminating the Templars.
 
  
  The combat system is simple and fun. You can fight with a sword, dagger or throwing knife, and 
 you can do combos, deflect attacks and counter-attack to instantly kill foes or knock them down. 
 Defending is mainly about timing, such as counter-attacking or pushing back people who grab you. 
 You can also use your hidden blade to people who are unaware of you or soldiers who have fallen 
 to the ground to kill them instantly. It is also the best way to assassinate your target. You can 
 also grab and throw soldiers, and sometimes you can kill them this way, such as throwing them off 
 buildings and tossing them into wooden structures like merchant stands and small wooden platforms.
 
  
  With the open gameplay, you also must choose how to behave in public. Gently pushing your way through 
 a crowd, using a ladder and walking won't get you noticed. Running and tackling your way through 
 people, knocking down stuff that people are holding, climbing, throwing around people, punching 
 people, and pulling out your weapon will get you some attention from citizens and guards. In the 
 top left hand corner, a dot indicates how your being watched. Yellow means that guards are a little 
 suspicious of you, and will tolerate only some of your behaviour. When it flashes red, anything 
 socially unacceptable will make them start to attack. If the icon completely flashes red, they're 
 after you.
  
  There are two ways to get guards off you. The first way is to kill them off, as explained above. 
 The second way is to run away and hide. Instead of fighting them, you can just run and hope you 
 get out of range. The best way to do this is to take many turns and climb up ladders and such. 
 When it starts to flash yellow, that means they're chasing you but they can't see you. This is 
 the time to hide. You can hide in bales of hay, covered gardens on rooftops, sitting on a bench 
 or blending in with a group of scholars. When the icon is flashing blue, that means your vanishing 
 and only need to wait for it to turn green before your safe.
  
  The controls are also great. It is really fun to do things that aren't as fun in other games. It 
 is fun to jump from rooftop to rooftop throughout the city. You can also climb buildings, by grabbing 
 objects that you can grab on in order to advance to the top of the building. When you get to the 
 top of the view point and access it to complete part of your map, you can do a leap of faith. This 
 is when Altair jumps off the high building into the bale of hay. This is a breathtaking moment, 
 the most breathtaking in the game and perhaps one of the most in gaming history. Him going down 
 through the air a long way and into a bale of hay is not only fun, but also great to watch, and 
 it never gets boring.
  
  The envoronment is also very interactive. Each pot and urn has a nice design to it, and the people 
 also look distinguished. They react to their environment, and do things such as sneeze, talk to 
 others, and react to your actions. And doing things such as jumping through a merchant stand will 
 destroy urns and get people mad at you.
  
  However, no game is without negatives. And while Assassin's Creed is a great game, it is not without 
 some flaws. From the first trip to Damascus to the last trip to Jerusalem, the overall game doesn't 
 change much. You still pickpocket, eavesdrop, help informers and citizens and look up view points 
 the same way you did earlier. You learn new moves throughout the game, assassinate different targets, 
 change districs and get upgrades, but that is just about it.
  
  Also, the controls can be a bit frustrating sometimes. For example, when you try to climb up a 
 building, Altair will sometimes jump up a few steps and back down, or jump off the wall. In the 
 combat system, Altair just doesn't seem to block, even when in the defensive stance.
  
  Despite some of the negatives, Assassin's Creed is truly an outstanding game. It is easily one 
 of 2007's best games, and its interactive environment, great atmosphere and storyline will keep 
 you glued for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammerOFdawn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  this is a really good game. cool fighting moves, really good graphics, incredible gameplay, awsome 
 storyline, and a lot for stuff... buy thid game... its really worth it!!! it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it im writing it because it 
 has to be 100 words... a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARO1993
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is a very good game, and I suggest you buy it even if sword fighting games are not 
 your thing. But I am sure you know that it is a good game, so I would rather tell you about what 
 is not so great. The story sounds very cool when you read reviews about it, but in the actual game 
 it doesnt really play a very big role. You can be running around doing assasin things to redeem 
 yourself, but in a time of 2 hours you may only see one or two cutscenes advancing the story. Another 
 part that is annoying is that when it comes to the actuall assasination there isnt really any way 
 to assasinate the target is a hidden area or anything like that. you basically just go up to your 
 target and knife him. this can also be frusterating at times because sometimes you willl be using 
 your concealed knife, and even though its away and your target is facing the other way he always 
 seems to suddenly turn abound and call out to his guards. This would be very frusterating if the 
 guards weren't so easy to defeat. Once you understand the easy fighting system you can destroy 
 masses of 20 guards without being at risk of dying. These flaws are minor and I have over emphasized 
 them, so focus on the good side and get this game because there are after all alot of things that 
 make this game good, but its still not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altiair
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Hello this is my review for the assassins creed video game for the xbox360. I love this game I 
 would pay one hundred dollars for it but I didnt have to because its only 60$ The action is awsome 
 and the detail makes it more fun. You get to chase your targets on rooftops, and cimb buildings 
 to find people in trouble. But basically the game is all about altiair which if you noticed is 
 my gamertag for this website. Altiair is an assassin who brakes a creed/ rule of the brotherhood 
 and has to kill 9 guys to make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lineker78
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Whilst there is nothing seriously wrong with this game - the visuals are great and controls slick 
 - it is an unsatisfying, repetitive and shallow game. There are about 6 tasks that are repeated 
 in 3 different locations, 3 times. this means you do a version of each task 9 times. There is so 
 little variety that you can complete the game within 8-9 hours - not long enough for a game that 
 claims to recreate living cities to explore.
  
  On top of this the game has infuriating cut scenes to the 'real-world' storyline that break up 
 the play in between missions, as well as graphical glitches when you perform certain actions (every 
 single time you synchronize your view on top of a building the video shows your clothes wafting 
 through the walls) . 
  
  The game has had very good reviews, and it isn't without its merits, but it feels like a let down 
 once you realise you have experienced each type of task and have to repeat it over and over in 
 different locations to complete the game. 
  
  Overall, give it a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuinessQ
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game! Assassin's Creed gives a believable perspective to the player as he / she experiences 
 Desmond through his ancestor and current self. I find myself enjoying being stealthy and trying 
 to blend with the crowd just as much as engaging in epic battles with tons of guards. I haven't 
 completed the game yet but the storyline is exciting and highly interactive. Inside the Animus 
 you literally feel yourself altering events within the holy land as Altaiir removes officials from 
 power. As you stalk your prey and plan your attack, you get a true predatory sense as if you are 
 creeping in the assassin's shoes. As the beggars and crazies approach you, you genuinely curse 
 them as a nuisance. The climbing system is fantastic; Altaiir actually uses footholds and outcroppings 
 to make his way up walls and towers. In general, the gameplay is smooth and the controls feel great. 
 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snokex
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the more impressing games on the Xbox 360. The graphics are wonderful and so 
 is the AI to. But to me I get a little bored with the missions, especially the "save citizens" 
 missions. But when you look at it overall its quite an amazing game. To be able to move around 
 in very nicely animated cities and be able to do whatever you want is very good. And I never get 
 tired to just jump around on top on the roofs, finding a high tower and do the Leap of death into 
 a haystack. The ending is very weird and doesn't end the game. So I think there's a big possibility 
 that there will be a sequel. But if the sequel is as good as this one I would definetely buy it. 
 And the control is also very smooth. It's easy, but still quite complex. The environments are also 
 very good. So to summarise, this game have excellent graphics, sound, controls, AI... Basically 
 everything in the game is good, so if you're looking for a new game this should definetely be on 
 your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4-spartan117-4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  I have many mixed reactions about this game. Starting off with the main character Atair. He looks 
 awsome, has nice weapons, but his voice acting was a bit shallow but not too shallow it was just 
 rite.
  
  The areas and city's you visit are just simply beutiful, the graphics and detail put into them 
 make the game fun to play.
  
  Next is the enemies, the guards are detailed very nice. They use their surroundings to their advantage. 
 For example if you run or climb atop a roof they will try to follow you up. The voice acting from 
 the guards is well done.
  
  The weopans in this game that you have to your disposal are the following;
  1. Short blade 
 
  2. Sword
  3. Throwing Knifes 
  4. Hidden Blade.
  All these weapons work really nice and they work affectivley. Personaly my favourite weapon is... 
 not one of, them but all of them. Its hard to choose which one because all are very affective and 
 usefull for certain things. 
  
  Next are the missions, the missions are not too hard but just rite. They do get repetitive after 
 a few hours of play but everything else makes up for the repetitive gameplay.
  
  I hope this review helped you alot on deciding if you should by this game or to spend your money 
 on something different. I got this game as a gift along with Halo 3 but either way if i didnt get 
 it as a gift i was going to buy it anyway. So i'm not going to keep you waiting any longer. You 
 know the drill go get the game and play! PEACE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  Like any aspiring gamer in the early years, we have all played a genre based vid that cemented 
 our love for games as a whole. Adventure games would be my preferred tonic. Since the pixelated 
 days of Prince of Persia and modern day endeavors in urban settings like GTA, my curiousity to 
 see what is next for the genre is constantly building. With Assassin's Creed, the bar has been 
 set! Ubisoft could easily continue banking on well known franchises, but this medieval adventure 
 takes the genre to new heights of expectations. Sadly, many of AC's flaws are so apparent its hard 
 to ignore them as you trudge thru the final bits of the game only to be left wanting so much more 
 when the credits roll. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Awesome controls don't even begin to explain how well AC plays. Most people complained about the 
 button layout which is undoubtedly strange at first, but quickly becomes second nature as you gain 
 new abilities and hone in on your own play style. Starting the game off you have everything at 
 your finger tips which is cool, but as the story unfolds your striped of your rank and assassin 
 goodies. Seems like a cheap way to give you purpose while completing missions, yet aquiring more 
 gear and skills in not the focus. I would have to say its more about how you use them. With that 
 in mind, you traverse a pretty well detailed land that plays host to small towns and cities full 
 of hidden items, elite guards who attack on sight, tons of side missions that help flesh out story, 
 and my personal favorite... the best contextual based controls I've ever played with. All that 
 said, especially the bit about the context controls, everything mentioned serves no major purpose 
 in driving the actual game. You could easily use the same attack on every enemy, travel down the 
 same path, skip every side quest and totally ignore every chance the game offers variety with little 
 to no consequence. Truth be told, after traveling thru the 3 major cities where story takes place, 
 there is a good chance skipping regurgitated content will seem like a viable option. 
  
  VISUALS
  If you been playing videogames long enough to know what the term "draw-distance" is, 
 you owe it to yourself to see this game in action. Even if your TV is lacking in size and quality, 
 scaling large buildings and looking over the massive digital cities is quite the awe inspiring 
 sight. But the fun doesn't stop there, because you can conveniently leap from building to surface 
 and admire the wonderful level design up close with no hic-cups in graphics or NPC activity. With 
 5 main areas being the meat of where action takes place, each has its own distinct look and plenty 
 of space for your main character to rip loose Batman style. While story unfolds, feel free to enjoy 
 the small perks of adjusting camera angles and moving characters so that you can appreciate the 
 facial animation work which is well done. Other than well designed walkways, try not to get too 
 close to the pretty water because our main hero seems a bit untrained in the art of swimming.
 
  
  AUDIO
  The people of Ubisoft seem to have a real good understanding of overall presentation, which continues 
 to show in their voice and sfx work. You could easily sit thru mission briefings with the volume 
 on mute, but that would be a major loss since the voice work has a diverse cast that ranges from 
 authentic and believable to over the top and plain silly. Thankfully, when controlling the main 
 character his speech is limited to story based exchanges and combat grunts. Not saying his voice 
 is unfavorable, but it helps relating to a assassin lead who isn't of the talkative type who speaks 
 only when words are necessary. As for combat grunting, you get a fair dose of villian lingo saying 
 everything about how scared you are to face the edge of their blade to them crying for mercy when 
 you cut their legs from under them. Sword combat IS repetitive, but easy to stomach with extremely 
 satisfying bone and meat sounds as blades clash and clang with targets. 
  
  EXTRAS
  The most difficult thing to admit about AC is even with so much great gameplay and visuals setting 
 a new bench mark in the adventure genre, little is left after completing the game. While going 
 thru the story you can squeeze a few extra bits out of side missions which sadly play exactly the 
 same in every city, leaving variety seriously lacking. You do have to perform a certain amount 
 of tasks before taking on the main missions, which is understandable. But everything past that 
 is achievement foder exploring view points, saving citizens, killing off elite guards, and finding 
 hidden flags. Not bad for completionist, but after combing thru the cities and open areas for every 
 flag and target the feeling of 10-20 point achievements really feels lackluster in the long haul. 
 
  
  OVERALL
  I really wanted to love Assassin's Creed with all my gaming heart, but something about visuals 
 being favored over expected gameplay just sits uncomfortably with me. No doubt I throughly enjoyed 
 the wonderful presentation, but the idea that every mission was an exact copy in every area felt 
 terribly wrong. Replay value should never be a major issue when debating a good adventure game, 
 and AC is a great adventure. Yet, like the main character who cuts down every baddie who crosses 
 his path, so much was well done from start to finish you can't help but feel like something special 
 was cut from this game. Maybe its the lacking story or possibly the lame Ai. Its tough to really 
 hate this game, but nothing you want to push away from without giving it a fair chance. As a weekend 
 rental, AC has all the makings to blow you away and give a good glimpse as to what future adventure 
 games should offer... and strangely what they should do right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo-gnome
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  ive seen many reviews saying this game is rubbish but i think its amazing the free running part 
 is fun in itself i mean youi can run aroun rooftops and climb up buildings for hours then drop 
 into the streets and save a random peasant from a group of corrupt guards then run up a wall and 
 back onto the roofs then jump off into a haycart. Another thing is the combat system it works smoothly 
 and looks brilliant but the camera sometimes goes wonky and gets caught in a nearby bush and you 
 cant see whats going on but the crystal-clear graphics, smooth gameplay and interesting storyline 
 make up for it. speaking of storyline it takes a strange twist and the end suggests towards an 
 assassins creed 2 anyway if you like free-running and killing people randomly then you will enjoy 
 this even if you dont you will still enjoy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stebbinsd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  Nobody knows stealth action like Ubisoft. They're also famous for the platforming perfection, Prince 
 of Persia. Assassin's Creed combines the best of both of these games in a game that is addictive, 
 exciting, and fun.
  
  One of the funnest parts of this game is the platforming. There's practically nowhere you can't 
 get to in the game if you find the right path. In fact, there are two achievements that you can 
 obtain from the game directly involving platforming: Climbing to the top of a bunch of really tall 
 buildings, and collecting a series of flags on rooftops. The platforming itself is fun, achievements 
 or not. Sometimes, in the HQ village, I find myself just running and jumping on buildings just 
 to see what I can pull off, with no specific goal in mind.
  
  Combat is a little tough to figure out, but it's insane when you do. A bit of advice, btw: You 
 do NOT have to hold down the left trigger to lock on to someone; you merely have to tap it and 
 the game will take care of the rest. You do, however, have to hold down the R trigger to remain 
 in "high profile," and you have to be in high profile in order to swing your sword.
  
  But where this game REALLY shines is in the main quest; where you assassinate nine bad guys (you're 
 the good guy, even though you're a hit man) . Gathering information about the person's whereabouts 
 and activities is fun and shows shades of Splinter Cell. Assassinating one of the nine major guys 
 will cause him to speak some last words to forward the plot, and then getting away is a challenge.
 
  
  If you like platforming, sword fights, and stealth, you will adore Assassin's Creed. It's one of 
 those few games that truly shines in an industry full of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  To say the least, Assassin' s Creed is a game that had a lot of potential, though it was slow on 
 the start up, the first inital kill in the game was a breath of relief of creative gameplay in 
 a world where everygame sometimes seems the same. Obviously with the word "assassin" in the title, 
 you kill people in a Hitman like style, in which you must blend, use stealth to reach the final 
 person. THis game is also driven with a great story. On a technical stand-point, this game is flawless 
 as well. I could nitpick about how I fell through the map once or twice, the texture filtering 
 sometimes leaves a little line flowing across the ground, but even so Assassins Creed is the best 
 looking 360 title to date. With all these positives, you must be asking yourself "Whats not to 
 Like"
  Assassins Creed Is sure with its problems. The combat is extremely dry, button mashy, and boring 
 on top of that. The sidequests are all the same, as is each assassination you must perform within 
 the game. Basicly you kill the same guy several times, only the scenario is different. On top of 
 that the diffulculty curve is all over this place for the game. Adjusting at first was challenging, 
 but since its a relatively new game experience, but after you get into it, it sure feels easy and 
 i started to enjoy the game. But the last few hours are just break-the-controller hard. I grew 
 exceptionally tired with the game, by the end, and I'd find it suprising if anyone else felt differently.
 
  Overall I had very mixed feelings about assassins creed, since the story doesn't wrap up very 
 nicely im inclined to think that there will be a sequel. Hoping the gameplay gets a bit of a make 
 over, it sure shows promise. But Assassins creed overall, is not a perfect package, and absolutely 
 far from it. The important question is "is it worth it?" I'd say maybe a few years from now at 
 a bargin price, but for now, Assassins Creed is a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan6692
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This games was said to be the best it could be and they did not lie about it. This is one of the 
 best games I have ever played. Keeped me in my seat untill the vary end. The achievements I have 
 to say are really fun to get. The only thing is those flags. They are hard to find unless you like 
 to wander around it random hiding places. Some are kind out there but others not so much. The ending 
 I have to say was great. Some might be mad at an ending that leave you yelling and asking whats 
 going on. I though it was a great ending. The thought of another game like this blows my mind. 
 The signs on the walls really makes you think about what will happen next. Have to says its a buy. 
 I mean it my not be so fun to run through twice but really fun. You'll need more time then a rent 
 can give you to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misteryork
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  After the incredible hype and the support of most video game analysts (I mean, its understandable 
 after getting to know the games lovable producer :) ) , Assassin's Creed is awesome in terms of 
 graphics and production values.. 
  
  But then, the actual gaming experience is not in accordance with all these high ratings you see 
 everywhere, as well as is not in accordance with the word on the streets.
  
  Assasins's creed is boring and HIGHLY repetitive. Most cities and towns look (and more importantly 
 FEEL) the same, aside from some signature buildings (like that very very tall cathedral in Acre 
 from where is fun to jump :) ) 
  Details like the assassin's buro being each and every time the exact same building, the absence 
 of worthy opponents or at least anything resembling the achievement feeling of confronting a boss, 
 and the fact that in almost all missions you'll feel like you are doing the same thing over and 
 over again, are real turn off for the game. 
  The bright side is that you'll end up playing it anyway, as moving the character though the environment 
 feels that good. That, and the urge to finally get "somewhere" in the game... and then, just as 
 you think that the good stuff's gonna start...
  
  Of course you'll have to play it to find out for yourself. And well , as this game is nothing but 
 a prelude for something else to come I sincerely hope this guys put more of an effort to deliver 
 a better product in the sequel, in terms of a whole gaming experience, not just amazing production 
 values. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeaisis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was fun, don't get me wrong. I enjoyed stealth killing guards, getting into fights, 
 and jumping through cities, but all in all the experience was somewhat forgettable.
  
  First, the good parts. Assassin's Creed has its moments. The best part of the game is the 'free 
 run' system. Basically, you can run and jump your way through whole cities atop building and little 
 platforms. You're basically spider man without the web. Its very enjoyable in this respect, and 
 even enough that you want to get in trouble and have guards chasing after you. The combat is fun 
 for the first half of the game. But its all very standard, not really giving you anything new. 
 You can counter, parry, block, etc etc. You have two different swords, and throwing knives. But 
 thats about it. I found that it relied WAY too heavily on countering blows, and I ended up ending 
 most of my fights that way. For me, the combat got kinda boring after a while. You basically fought 
 every person the same way and such. If you couldn't handle it, you ran. And running was sometimes 
 more exciting anyway. The other grievance I had was that when your in the heat of escape, its kinda 
 tricky to place your feet on the right platforms when your 'free running', and sometimes you trip 
 up and the guards catch up with you. You'll spend ALOT of time running sometimes, trying to find 
 places to hide. You really only have a couple options with hiding too... basically get out of sight 
 and jump in a hut on a rooftop, apile of hay, or (which I found to never work) , blend in with scholars. 
 Escaping can get kinda clunky and take too long sometimes.
  
  Besides this, the assasination system works well, and the parts of the game where you 'act' like 
 an assassin instead of an insane rambo-esque god-of-war-inpsired killer of the masses, work very 
 well. You plan your assasination by gathering information, spying, pickpocketing and interrogating. 
 You find these sub-missions by climbing high 'view points' on top of the city. All this, and you 
 otherwise try to 'blend' in when you can. This is interesting and exciting at first, but gets really 
 old really fast, as EVERY assassination mission plays out this way. Go to the assassin's bureau, 
 find a viewpoint, gather info, make the kill. Thats basically it.
  
  And then of course you have the random, sci-fi storyline thrown in there that I found to be enormously 
 out of place. Its like they took two completely different games and threw them together. Oh well, 
 I suppose. The last, and final annoying aspect, and it is the MOST annoying part, was the dialogue. 
 The game's story, I found wasn't very interesting, trite and tedious, and very boring. You really 
 didn't know the characters enough to care about them, but for some reason you had to listen to 
 them talk EVERY time they say something. And if you die, or restart from an earlier part, I'm sorry, 
 you have to listen to it again. And not skip it. And if you fail a mission, go back and try a gain, 
 you have to listen to the entire spiel over. This is the most annoying part I can say, because 
 you really cannot do anything while people are talking to you, you just sit there. Besides the 
 fact that the system gets boring, and you can't skip 'scenes', Assassin's Creed is a fun little 
 weekend rental that you play so you can have a good time jumping from rooftop to rooftop and lunging 
 on unsuspecting guards with a blade hidden in your right arm. Theres really nothing new here, except 
 for the interesting 'blend into the city' thing, which they didn't really go far enough with, in 
 my opinion. A boring storyline that never caught my attention propels this game, and I found myself 
 playing it only for the adrenaline it gives you for successfully performing that perfect assassination, 
 and really nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami5436
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Everyone mainly knows what the game is so I won't explain that.
  But, the main story is that your a person in present times that's used for researching memory on 
 your ancestor Altair the assassin, which apparently allows for the information on technology back 
 in the time.
  
  Mostly, the highlights and best things in the game are:
  The Graphics Climb on Almost Everything
  Very Fun Designed Perfectly
  Awesome Story Makes Killing 
 Fun
  Assassination and Cutscenes are Superb
  .... and one of the Best Games Ever. 
  
  Great Detail done to the 3rd Crusade's cities of about 1197 (or 1191) AD.
  Including in the cities, 
 is Acre, Masyaf, Jerusalem, and Damascus. It may be a hard game, but the amazing scenery and the 
 great gameplay and story line make up for everything. A very interesting and extremely fun game.
 
  
  The controls are quite simple but are complicated at times, and the fighting style is very realistic. 
 All 4 different weapens are fun to use especially the hidden blade which is used for assassinations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4Chelski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Assasins creeed is a absolutley great game for the first 15 - 30 hours because as it suffers from 
 a thing that most games have it does get repetive after awhile.
  
  I would say this game is a somewhat hard game to reccomend to buy id of truthly been more happier 
 if i rented it out but you see the downfall of the game is once you have completed this game theirs 
 not much replay value as it gets boring having to do all the same things over again and your basically 
 doing the same things over and over again throughout the story ie. beating up people for information, 
 pickpocketing, eavesdropping and finally assasinating thats not alot to do.
  They have been generous enough to add little sidemissions but these sidemissions all tigh into 
 the storyline so you basically feel like you have to do it not because its fun but for that bit 
 of intel to take down your target.
  
  I can not and will not say this game is a bad game as its storyline is intresting confusing aswell 
 it always has me wondering and trying to understand what they really want from the main character 
 (apologizes for my iggnorance i forgot his name lol) .
  
  The graphics and scale of maps are spectacular i couldnt actually believe at times i could actually 
 explore all of these massive citys and everything looks somewhat scalable well maby if your spiderman 
 but it just feels so cool to be running away from the guards and you jump up and down and scale 
 some impossible objects.
  
  Finally the combat is very fun you feel like a real swordmaster most of the time with your counter 
 dodge grab and attack buttons you can be as creative as you choose to be and watch your enemys 
 fall one by one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55assin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  When standing still... or in cutscenes, the graphics aren't all that great... but once the action 
 begins, you won't believe how it looks. The use of motion blur, distance, perspective, and some 
 other little additions is simply amazing. The characters couldn't possibly more realistic... but 
 it's all really centered on your guy. He looks the best, has the best movements, and so on. 
  
  If you though prince of persia gave you freedom to climb walls... you won't believe this game. 
 You have to do alot of wall climbing and stunts like that throught the game... but you WILL enjoy 
 every single second of it. Jumping from roof to roof has never been more enjoyable. 
  
  The story is suprisingly unpredictable and full of irony. I bet you're going to be like..."wtf 
 is this ***?" on the end of the game... but in a good way. 
  
  Once thing I disliked about the game was what a handholder is was.... they will literally be with 
 you the whole game... telling you exacty what to do so that you won't have to think.. just follow 
 the locations on the map. 
  
  Oh ya... and the frame rate is awesome... while never freezing or anything like that. No technical 
 issues... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyre0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  This is a game that talks about religion and is still a great game. The story design is interesting, 
 but not all that immersive. It feels as though your watching rather than playing, but what your 
 watching has amazing graphics and clarity in its realism. The Gameplay is quite elaborate and brings 
 a new aspect to action adventure, scaling buildings. The "wall climbing" nature of the cities reminds 
 me of Crackdown. The combat is gameplay isnt anything specia, but the special move cinematics are 
 incredible. These special moves also have a gruesome nature which is to be expected, but they are 
 a little too gruesome sometimes. The story plot seems to twist and turn then double-back and slap 
 you in the face on its way to the finish. But overall the story is suspensful and then confusing. 
 The amazing graphics can only be compared with its seemless, and flowing control scheme. 
  Believe it or not the game is educational... to a point. I started the game not knowing -blam!- 
 about The Great Crusades and once I beat it I could have written a decent History Report. 
  Overall I give the game an 8.5 out of 10 and would recommend this game to anyone who has a Crusades 
 report due. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1outlaw
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all, what you expect from Assassin's Creed will be a lot different from what you read 
 in most reviews. After playingthe game, it was a more shallow and fast paced experience than I 
 originally thought. The game starts off very linear and you find out there is a terribly broken 
 sci-fi twist meddled into the medieval story-line. Not only are these "sci-fi"parts a pain to play 
 through, but they offer almost completely nothing else to the story. And apparently Ubisoft is 
 going to use this component as the backbone for the next game -.- . 
  Throughout the game you'll traverse through varied settings including the Holy Land in the time 
 of the Crusades. The environment is established wonderfully. The real-time lightening system and 
 visual filters really help set a next-gen feel to the graphics. The only dissappointment in the 
 graphics are the lackluster crowd models. 
  The sound is pretty good in the game, although some voice acting may seem muffled or choppy. The 
 music helps immerse you into the game, but there doesnt seem to be much variety. In my opinion 
 Altair seemed a lot less impressive than the other characters. He oft sounded monotonious and didnt 
 stand out compared to the stronger, more thought-inspiring cast. 
  Now to the gameplay. This is the part that let me down a lot. I thought it would be a stealth game 
 set in the Crusades. Instead, the game is a repetitive, brain child of previous games that have 
 set the bar. The stealth just isn't deep enough. The controls allow you to "blend" into the environment, 
 in which you put your hands together and look as if you're praying... This is as much stealth as 
 their is in the entire game. You wont be trying to keep hidden or concealed, since you'll always 
 be around crowds during assassinations. There are only three weapons that you'll be able to aquire. 
 Sword- slice and dice your enemy with one button. Throwing knives- long ranged weapon with limited 
 ammunition. Hidden blade- your main assassination weapon (and most fun) . 
  The fact that it's an action adventure might be an excuse to have such a shallow weapons library, 
 but you'll never really NEED any more arsenal to eliminate your enemies. The assassinations are 
 thin as butter. You'll HAVE to gain Intel on your targets by either completing challenges, pick-pocketing 
 or evesdropping (wooooowwww..) . Although these tasks seem decent, you'll eventually want to beat 
 up the developers for implementing them into every mission. Eventually you'll also want to unlock 
 viewpoints, which will eliminate the fog off your map and show you more challenges. But after completeting 
 these almost useless and boring challenges a whooping nine times, you'll feel the strain of the 
 game and how badly designed it is. The assassinations are fun. If only the developers made a better 
 structure for the game, it would be so much more fun. 
  There are many problems with the story that i encountered. As before mentioned, the tied in sci-fi 
 element is extremely boring. All you really do is walk over to your room, sleep, and walk back 
 into the machine. The dialog is long and boring and the characters all look as if they have cross-eyed 
 eyes. I wouldnt be able to believe what the sequel would be without Altair and the crusades. I 
 saw the twist at the end of the story coming after the second missions. It's just a poor effort 
 to make something innovative.
  
  Overall, the game makes a willing attempt to be different, but doesnt quite manage to pull off 
 a decent story-line or a very fun assassination system. Although the technical side really sets 
 a new bar for adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dojodawg
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a nice change of pace from the overused first person shooter. Ubisoft Montreal 
 does a great job on it's AI and the surronding areas. Every person in A. C. has its own personally 
 and responds to what you do in their own personal way. The Scenery and how your character (Altair) 
 respond to it is second to none. Characters in the game can climb all scenerary in a realistic 
 way. Unfortunately, Gamers will not be able to experience this game for too long because of the 
 short campaign. After the game is over there is no replay value. Also missions will become tedious 
 because of the lack of choice on interrogations. These are unavoidable tasks to find out information 
 about your targets. At first this seems like a fun thing. However, there aren't many choices on 
 interrogation and this feature becomes a hassle. Also, towards the end of the game I found myself 
 throwing my controller after being chased down by guards for looking at them funny. Overall, however, 
 Assassin's Creed is a great new action adventure game on the xbox 360 and ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazmaster666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game. Sure it's somewhat repetitive but almost all open world games 
 are. Sure it's somewhat derivative, sure the writing isn't particularly interesting and the plot 
 predictable. But the gameplay is just so damn fun and visceral that it's hard to care.
  
  Speaking of derivation, it will only take a couple of leaps off ledges or a couple of climbs up 
 a building for anyone to realize that the basic mechanics of the game is very similar to a previous 
 Ubisoft franchise: the Prince of Persia series. Fortunately, however some of the more frustrating 
 controls of the PoP games have been alleviated here and Altair seems to glide across the rooftops 
 with no effort at all, allow for almost consistently fluid gameplay from start to finish. In fact, 
 half the fun of Assassin's Creed is merely jumping and scaling your way from one tall building 
 to the next, which is surprising when you consider the purpose of the game is to assassinate 9 
 high-profile people.
  
  In fact, it's a shame that the actual events related to the assassination or the main plot itself 
 isn't nearly as interesting as going out and exploring on your own. The various tasks you undertake 
 (many of which are optional but will help improve your "synchronization") are quite repetitive. 
 It's not to say they aren't worth doing but they simply feel uninspired. In addition, none of the 
 cutscenes (which you cannot skip btw) are particularly interesting, but they are somewhat long 
 and tedious. Similarly the combat mechanics are simple, and after you learn counter attacks that's 
 pretty much all you need to do to survive fights with guards or soldiers.
  
  As for the stealth elements, well they aren't particularly well implemented. Guards sometimes react 
 far too quickly and seem far too attentive. For instance, climbing buildings will arouse suspicions 
 but most of the time not cause guards to come after you. However, bump into them the slightest 
 and more often than not they'll immediate come running. It also seems to easy to sometimes sneak 
 up on unalert guards who seem to very narrow vision but yet will easily detect you in other places. 
 This can make the game easier on some occasions but frustrating on others.
  
  Taking the previous paragraph you would think Assassin's Creed is a bad game. But this is far from 
 the case. As Ubisoft themselves touted, Assassin's Creed is an "open world" game. And in that sense, 
 Assassin's Creed excels quite well. Whether it galloping around the kingdom on your horse or scaling 
 across the rooftops, or silently assassinating random guards on your whim, the "open world" aspect 
 of Assassin's Creed is what makes the game so fun and addictive.
  
  As for the crowds, well they are certainly more reactive in this game than any other I've played. 
 In most games of this type, the crowds just kind of stand around and you can just run up to them 
 and get no reaction at all. Not the case in Assassin's Creed. If you're running too fast in a crowded 
 area, you'll end up running into pedestrians who will not only react angrily to your intrusion 
 but also block your way and cause you to lose your balance. This can get a problem when your trying 
 to escape pursuing guards. Thugs will engage you in fist fights if you get in their way, beggars 
 will throw rocks at you if you attempt to climb a building in their line of sight. Crazy mad men 
 will attack you for no apparent reasons. While these actions aren't by themselves necessarily impressive, 
 it's at least a forward thinking take on crowd AI that few games have ever taken into consideration. 
 While Assassin's Creed doesn't revolutionize crowd AI it certain is taking it in a promising direction.
 
  
  It doesn't hurt either that Assassin's looks beautiful. Okay so admittedly, the art design is reminiscent 
 of games such as Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time and its sequels. However, the fantastic dynamic 
 lighting effects, excellent use of motion blur, and the impressive view distances really create 
 an incredible and immersive atmosphere. The only other game on the 360 this year that immersed 
 me in its world so well was Bioshock. Not only that but it ran smoothly and fluidly but very little 
 issue. There was one time when the framerate starting boggling down for no apparently but otherwise 
 I literally played this game for hours on end without any issue at all (which unfortunately is 
 often not the case for some 360 games)
  
  My own personal distaste for collecting hidden items aside, Assassin's Creed is very fun, very 
 immersive game that isn't very original and somewhat repetitive but definitely very addictive. 
 With its good looks, solid open world gameplay, and forward thinking crowd interactions, Assassin's 
 Creed is definitely worthy of your time and effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdtragichero
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  While the initial atmosphere of this game seems great, it quickly becomes stale and repetitive, 
 having you run through different quests that are annoyingly similar. The user interface, while 
 suppossedly intuitive, is exactly the opposite, especially when you are trying to flee 20 or more 
 bad guys who are out to get you. I found myself inexplicably jumping onto merchant stalls and ledges 
 when I was trying to do exactly the opposite -- running for my fricking life so the quest wouldn't 
 reset and I'd have to do everything else again -- just so I could run for my life again, jumping 
 into yet more merchant stalls and tripping over oblivious people, shamelessly added to the game 
 to get in your way as much as possible. Also, once you're in a fight with 20 baddies, it's almost 
 impossible just to make a run for it.
  
  If the interface were the only problem, I'd probably butch it out and try to hone my button-pushing 
 skills. Unfortunately, though, in Ubisoft's politically correct attempts to avoid offending anyone, 
 the main character (you) , given ridiculously bad vocal acting, is so grey/milquetoast, you have 
 absolutely no emotional buy-in. You never have an idea which side you're supposed to be on, and 
 if you didn't know your history going in, you would probably have no idea there was any kind of 
 war, crusade, struggle, whatever, going on at all.
  
  All of this is SO unfortunate because it would have been cool if the people at Ubisoft (who are 
 usually good at creating immersing storylines, ala Splinter Cell) would have actually spent some 
 time fleshing out a believable and complex storyline wherein the protagonist moves among various 
 different perspectives as he "grows" through the various Crusade era quests, experiencing the goods 
 and evils from either side of the religious zealotry. They should have developed a game that would 
 let you choose which side to be on, so a player could run through the campaigns from different 
 sides, experiencing each with its own strengths and flaws. All in all, this game will join the 
 others in my game drawer, becoming one of the cold and timid games that had so much more potential.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithkri
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  ***********SPOILERS.. maybe ?*******
  
  
  
  Assassins creed. One of the most anticipated games of year 2007. And boy do it suck. It starts 
 you off with a boring intro. People going on about something you dont know jack about. And then 
 they throw you into this mindless training program. Who designed that program ? Anyways, its great 
 at first but gets repetetive. And the guards got some like super-detective brain that can point 
 out assassins just walking by you, or maybe just starting to gallop with a horse. And who designed 
 this game ? Were they stupid.. i mean come on. these mistakes have been made so many times. how 
 could they not have thought "Oh, maybe people will find this repetetive and boring.". WELL IT IS.
 
  
  
  One cool thing though is the free running/ Le parkour. but it gets boring to. First you think ts 
 cool and you can climb everything. but it aint cool after you relize that everything looks all 
 the same. everything you climb is just all the SAME. 
  
  
  The story. Yeah.. the story sucks from my part. if you think about it ? at first you think its 
 cool but then you just think its stupid because you dont really get any answears. And it leaves 
 you with this cliffhanger ending. And you just dont care about that templar crap and it aint 
 enough for you to buy the second game. Because it will suck as much as the first. Its obvious 
 even now that this is a dead franchise with a stupid designer team.
  
  And gamespot gave this game a 9.0. Yeah i can understand that. Because this game is fun if you 
 dont know anything about gaming and never play games and been sleeping the past 4 years. 6.0 is 
 not harsh at all. This game is just stupid and lame. and the graphics aint good at all. Because 
 everything looks the same so it wasnt hard for them to create a world like that. but then you 
 look at oblivion, mass effect, crysis, call of duty, gears of war thats a holenother story. gotta 
 wrap this up. You should buy it. see what you think. Maybe rent it first. nah .. dont bother. 
 Have a good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jblaze56
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Its really fun counterattacking people. The cities are really big and you can explore everywhere. 
 I mean everywhere, when u think u cant get up there.. well think again there is always a way to 
 get up there either by jumping, wall climbing, or anything else. The way u can blend in or stand 
 out is awesome too. The graphics are really nice to look at and everything. Also the history on 
 this is really accurate this was an actual event but messed with a little. The hiding from guards 
 are also pretty good and how u do everything in hiding and killing is really fun.
  
  Cons: This game is very short, and when they say you can choose when you assassins a important 
 person they are dead WRONG. You are only given a specific time and place to assassinate the person. 
 Also its really repetitive how to get to assassinate the person and assassinating them. First step 
 is always pickpocketing or something, Second beat the crap out of people for info and sitting and 
 listen to peoples conversations, and third the assassination. The killing is always repetitive 
 after a while cause u do the same thing almost everytime. Also the guards come at u one at a time 
 like they put their names in a hat to see who goes first, second, third and so on. This game gets 
 boring after a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The surprises start right off the bat, when you power on the game and spend several minutes second-guessing 
 if they put the right disc in your case. Many of you will have already heard about this opening 
 twist, but if not, I won't be the one to ruin it for you. Suffice to say, the context in which 
 you find yourself a medieval assassin is more complex than it appears. 
  
  Once the real action gets going, you'll wander a huge open world  three massive cities and the 
 connecting countryside. It's a strange mix of meticulous historical recreation and totally open 
 level design. Climbing and leaping can get you to almost any place in the world  usually by any 
 number of different paths. Hero Altar is as much ninja as medieval warrior as he goes about the 
 grim business of hunting down evil men who are oppressing the people of the Holy Land. Rarely has 
 a character without superpowers or magic been quite so powerful and exciting to vicariously inhabit, 
 whether he's perching on a high tower of the Acre Cathedral or countering the blows of a Templar 
 knight.
  
  With its intuitive puppeteering button scheme, there's a fundamental shift in play control at work. 
 Where most games are primarily concerned with the question "Where do you want to go?", Assassin's 
 Creed puts equal weight on "How do you want to get there?". By designating all actions as high 
 or low profile, movement becomes less about individual button presses and more about situational 
 observation. Further, each face button is like a part of the body that changes contextually to 
 match the situation. In a fight, your open hand button might grab a foe, but when running along 
 rooftops the same button will reach for a distant ledge. While seemingly a minor variation on a 
 familiar theme, this approach to control is one of the game's greatest triumphs. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GC-Ubernoob
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I got this game for Christmas just beat it. Ok to get right down to it Assassin's Creed is 
 nothing short of a great game. Just an overall great experience. So I'm going to get straight to 
 the good and bad.
  
  The Good- The Game play is fun jumping through rooftops, merchant stands, and being able to climb 
 almost anything. From being chased by Guards through the Streets of Jerusalem to being harassed 
 by drunks to a beggar bothering you for money. Just fun
  
  The Story is one of the best video game story lines ever along side with Halo, The Darkness, Gears 
 of War so on and so forth.
  
  The Graphics are beautiful, along side the voice acting is amazing.
  
  Ok so that's the good 
 but here is the bad.
  
  The Bad- The Guards are total idiots you can assassinate some one while a guard is watching you 
 and they won't lift a finger. Also when ever you're being chased you can hide in the most obvious 
 of places but the guards just give up.
  
  The Combat-However fun the system is way to easy block, hit, combo, grab, run is practically the combat 
 system 
  
  Repetition- Ok so there is a part of the story where you're supposed to assassinate nine people 
 well about after the fourth assassination to the seventh the game just feels repeated over over 
 over again. Pure story was keeping me from stopping. However get past this and the game becomes 
 much better.
  
  So that is Assassin's Creed over all I'd give it a 8/10 stars
  
  Second opinion- 8.5/10 stars because The game is just fun to play and to see the story unravel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeryRAMIN
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  when you play the game you must find your subjects and it is very good and difficult. the game is 
 too short and the view of camera is not very good.
  Beggar in game is very opperessive painfull.
  It has very very big and nice map but you can not 
 see all the map if you finish the game once.
  in game when the soldiers follow you can not think what are you doing just you want scape! Peaple 
 in game are very nice and have good graphic and you must hide between them then you must run and 
 scape but somewhen you can not use this effect. it is good and you must buy  
 ............................ ..................... 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush_Project
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed looks good, its entertaining and theres alot to be said for it. Theres a large 
 world with no shortage of content (even if some of it can get a little repetitive) , and alot of 
 visually pleasing geography and a good looking fighting system. 
  
  The movements of your character are fairly realistic, and natural and arent of immortal status 
 like many other games to date. The control over these movements however is where i ran into a problem 
 throughout many times in the game.
  
  The character easily takes lanes that arent intended by the player to travel frequently and diverts 
 you down strange paths unless you are very careful, and even then you will probly find yourself 
 in many places you didnt expect to be.
  
  The combat system is a bit oversimplified as well and can be glitchy at times, and the game makes 
 you work up to simple sword fighting tactics you kinda need from the begining, but once you actually 
 have a few of these abilities it kinda makes combat a bit too easy, not to mention you'll kill 
 about 20 guards with only 2-3 different moves at maximum. Some of these kills are pretty sweet 
 to watch so its a bit easier to take, but it usually the same types of fights over and over.
  
  Its a good game, and worth the buy imo. It can be played in a few different fashions and has 
 a limited degree of open endedness, and the stealth system should be mentioned for its quality, 
 but it could have been buffed a bit. Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game was awesome. And I mean AWESOME! Every thing about it was good. This is my review for 
 one of Ubisoft's best!
  
  Graphics-10 The graphics are amazing!!!!!!! Ubisoft really spent a long time on it. You can tell. 
 Everything is beautiful. The enviorments the characters even the ground! Spot on!!!!
  
  Story-9.2 The story was good but really confusing. I liked most missions, but once again... Confusing. 
 I don't know why they put in the modern side story.
  
  Gameplay-9.5 The gameplay was really fun. The running, hiding, jumping, fighting it's all good.
 
  
  Control-9.5 The controls are awesome and sharp. It's easy though.
  
  Overall- 9.5 I wish there was online multiplayer but still this game was really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really good. Definitely a must buy for almost 
 everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sisitki
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft: "Hey, I've got a great idea. Let's create a really cool middle-eastern ninja-like assassin, 
 put him in a unique, immersive, alive game world, with prince-of-persia like control."
  
  Ubisoft 2: "Wow, great idea. We could also put the character in an interesting background story, 
 make him likeable to the player, and give him a varied, expansive world to walk around in with 
 lots of amazing adventures."
  
  Ubisoft: "Nah, let's just make it really repetitive and easy, with no depth and a lame 'modern 
 day' side story that is really moronic."
  
  Ubisoft 2: "OK cool."
  
  Good:
  -amazing graphics
  -fun control and fighting, freerunning
  
  Bad:
  -SOOOO easy
  -VERY 
 repetitive, do the same 4 things over and over and over
  -Dumb modern day side story that is boring as heck and you can't skip it
  
  So sad... I usually 
 love Ubisoft games. This could have been epic if they had put any effort into it. BOOOOOOO!!! Wouldn't 
 buy this again and won't buy any sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Jakester
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Innovation is the word for Assassin's Creed. Everything's an innovation. The combat system, for 
 example. Lock on with LT. Attack with X, etc. But hold down RT, and you go into a defensive stance. 
 And this defensive stance is the key to winning later battles. Without it, you be screwed. Royally. 
 
  
  The game is a videogame, through and through. Like, you're this guy re-living his ancestor's memories. 
 So, there are glitches that you can exploit to see things from a different point of view.
  
  The achievements make sense, and when you get one, it (usually) feels like you've truely accomplished 
 something.
  
  Altair has four main weapons. His sword, his knife, throwing knives, and his hidden blade. With 
 the hidden blade, you can sneak up behind people and stab 'em! Yay!
  
  The side-quests all make sense. Killing guards to save citizens, scaling tall buidings to get a 
 better view of the area, evesdropping to get information, pick-pocketing information...
  
  The assassinations are well thought-out, and FUN. Nothing will ever happen the same way twice, 
 as the guards don't always attack, don't always counter, etc. There are nine assassinations, the 
 the final boss fight, which I won't spoil for you.
  
  This game is very well thought-out, and etc. buy it, pl0x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed: THE GOOD, THE BAD (WITHOUT THE UGLY)
  
  GOOD: The story, both past and present proves to be very immersive; the visuals are stunning, probably 
 the best seen on any console; clear voice acting and sound effects; rich and colourful environments 
 to explore; investigations within the missions are interesting too; combat is fun and 
 
  
  BAD: ......................... but can get a bit repetitive; there are a few underworked elements 
 of gameplay which can get frustrating; noticeable technical issues and glitches.
  
  In conclusion Assassins Creed is a very enjoyable third person adventure with plenty of superb 
 features for it to live up to expectations, just a few issues here and there which will hopefully 
 be sorted out in the sequel.
  
  An enjoyable and well structured game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  How to describe Assassin's Creed? Assassin's Creed is a third person action game. While stealth 
 of sort is part of gameplay, the stealth is different then Ubisoft's long running Splinter Cell 
 series. In the case of Assassin's Creed you hide in plain sight.
  
  Let's deal with the negative perceptions first. Yes, the game has you repeating roughly the same 
 tasks repeatedly - eavesdrop, pickpocket, interrogate, rescue, assassinate. No, the game doesn't 
 have a satisfying ending (not as bad as Halo 2, though) .
  
  But still it is a stand-out title in the sea of releases since October. The tasks are not as repetitive 
 as it might sound. The difficulty continues to ratchet up and the encounters are unique. Of course, 
 the big tasks are the nine major assassination, and those are some of the best sequences of the 
 holiday gaming season. 
  
  The graphics are amazing and the controls are stellar. Whether climbing a wall, pickpocketing some 
 information, or blending in with the crowd, it is easy to catch on to what you need to do. 
  
  Overall, the game makes you want the sequel (s) . It would be nice if the same engine was used 
 and the next game came out quickly. There may be some minor bug fixes, but the game runs well on 
 the 360. 
  
  If you are a fan of action games, Assassin's Creed is worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyface
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game, the characters have been beautifully created and the cities 
 fantastically recreated.
  
  The game play is very fun but can at times become repetative and aside from a few elongated journeys 
 you're not required to wander for hours to get place. I suggest playing one mission (Assassination) 
 a day (possibly two) to ensure that you don't get bored of the repetitiveness.
  
  Sword fights are good fun but can be a bit annoying when a number of enemies attack simultaneously 
 (doesn't happen often) . The close up cameras when performing a combo or counter can be a little 
 stupid ie. behind a tree or wall, but can also provide some very cool, gory close ups.
  
  The AI is decent enough but falls short at times and can reduce you to slowly walking everywhere 
 to avoid detection. The towns folk who hassle you are entirely annoying and don't add a great deal 
 to the game. Also the promise of a dynamic crowd system falls short of initial thoughts.
  
  As a practitioner of Parkour I can confirm that the free-running (but more accurately Parkour) 
 is well done and relatively true to form not allowing for too many outlandish "moves".
  
  A really enjoyable game with a pretty annoying ending but still so very much fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed features several cities in an amazing world where every single detail is perfect. 
 You literally become in the game with the excellent atmosphere its wonderful soundtracks create. 
 
  
  Assassin's Creed features a brilliant story designed in an intelligent way. You play Desmond, a 
 bartender ex-assassin in the modern world captured by Abstergo, a company who need something locked 
 away in your memories. It is here that you are placed in the Animus and relive the life of your 
 ancestor. Instead of health, you receive a synchronization bar. This drops when you kill the innocent 
 amongst becoming hurt and should you "die" (desynchronize) you load the last memory. This is a 
 fantastic way to explain how you miraculously come back to life and why you randomly lost some 
 health for killing the innocent when everything else is incredibly real. 
  
  You can scale the many buildings, small and tall, across the cities in the Holy Land and make no 
 mistake, they are huge cities which, as the game progresses, you will receive more exploration 
 rights within them. Free step from beams and rooftops while using the environment to your advantage 
 to escape conflict. The guards climb up and try to stop you and even throw stones when you scale 
 the highest of buildings. 
  
  When you finally reach the top of a viewpoint you will be overwhelmed with an amazing view like 
 other. Try scaling the highest viewpoints for the real WOW factor. Yes, what you see is what you 
 can actually explore! 
  
  You'll even hear the wind gusting by and the tweet of a nearby eagle before you leap off into the 
 handily placed hay stack at the bottom. However, again, the haystack always looks like its meant 
 to be there - not just some random thing placed for your needs. The buildings look realistic - 
 not with random sticky out bits for you to climb. When in the busiest areas you will hear beggars 
 that run up to you - and others - for money. Some even throw stones if you try to escape! You will 
 hear merchants selling their goods and people preaching about one thing or another. As you 'Gentle 
 Push' by people, you are not randomly flailing your arms in a set sequence, you will only use them 
 as you approach someone and you will turn and squeeze by people too. 
  
  The game is a world that draws you in like never before. 
  
  Combat is also a pleasurable moment. 
 Every single slash of the blade is executed in a perfect way. When countering you will move based 
 on where the guard is and how he is attacking, then will slice and dice him to smithereens! There's 
 nothing better than attacking one guard and then swiftly turning, dodging and slicing another guard 
 in a well times counter. Again, every single detail counts here and it is those that make this 
 game so pleasurable. 
  
  The story to Assassin's Creed is also amazing. However finding information on targets gets repetitive. 
 It's the same old pickpocket him, interrogate someone else, eavesdrop on them. You need to complete 
 all investigations to complete the entire 'Memory Block' but after 1 or 2 you can go to the 'Assassin's 
 Bureau' and you will be permitted to complete your assassination. However, if you find all the 
 information and study it well, taking considerable care to each target, you will be able to prepare 
 your kill and escape route in advance knowing where the guards will be stationed, possible routes 
 the target takes should he run, how the target likes to fight (Bowman, just runs ect.) . Then you 
 really do feel like you are in the game. Unfortunately this repetiveness is possibly the one and 
 only thing that stops this game being perfect. 
  
  With this information you may be able to analyse if a stealth assassination, a distraction or a 
 rooftop entry is in order. You have a 'Hidden Blade' which can use to kill people in a 'Stealth 
 Assassination'. This is a great way to pick of guards on the rooftops. Furthermore, this technique 
 can be used on the actual target. Alternatively, you could grab the guard and throw him off the 
 rooftop. This causes a distraction where citizens and guards gather round the dead body leaving 
 their post allowing an easy entry for you. You could scale the rooftops and drop in from above 
 or free step on the beams usually above the guard post entering right above the guards' heads and 
 they don't know it! Or be the 'Blade in the crowd' and blend with scholars to enter unnoticed. 
 
  
  Don't think the only thing you do is assassinate target however. This game has excellent explorational 
 value. You can save citizens from harassing guards thus receiving either scholars (to blend with) 
 or vigilantes who will grab guards (and main assassination targets) to allow you to escape (or 
 kill them) . It's certainly a wonderful experience when you see that cowardly man who ran for his 
 life fighting his way out of a vigilante's grasp. Slowly approach (to make the micky) and give 
 him what he deserves!
  
  You become the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a bit of an odd game. In a Holiday full of first person shooters almost entirely, 
 Assassin's Creed is thankfully a break from the dumb future shoot um ups we've grown accustomed 
 too. It truly is a thinking mans game, with referneces to the crusades, the knights templar and 
 the ark of the covenant. As a game it is just as worthy... assassinations will NEVER get old and 
 there are a variety of ways to pull them off. Combat is fun and intuitive, as is the different 
 ways of hiding. There are a bunch of extra goodies in the game too, which add some extra hours 
 if you're a completionist. All of this is sweetened by perhaps the greatest achievment blend seen 
 this year... ubisoft uses them accordingly and you will easily net around 700 points. As a whole, 
 this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I had high expectations going into this game so when I actually got to playing it I was impressed 
 at how much I actually ended up enjoying it. Not to many games really live up to the hype and I 
 know this game in particular got picked on quite a bit for not living up it's promises, but I really 
 loved my entire experience with this game. 
  
  From the beginning of the game to the end there is this incredibly cinematic feel. There's no arguing 
 that it's one of the best looking games to date. Each city and area is huge and amazingly detailed. 
 When you climb up on the rooftops and whatnot you can see the whole city, the visibility is incredible 
 with the amount that is going on.
  
  Being as this game comes from the Prince of Persia guys and Altair resembles the Prince in so many 
 ways, there are no doubt going to be comparisons, so let's start with one now. Alike the Prince, 
 Altair is incredibly acrobatic. However, where playing the Prince caused you to worry about finding 
 where to go next and then making the jump, Altair does a lot of decision making for you. To climb 
 a building you simple hold up and let him work his way, whereas the prince required you to make 
 each jump yourself.
  
  Now, this gives it that incredibly cinematic feel I mentioned because it's more like an interactive 
 movie than a game when doing a lot of things. However, it also gives it that Zelda feel where you 
 are running and just cross your fingers hoping he'll make the jump at the right time. Most of the 
 time he does.... but not all the time. When he makes these wrong jumps or gets stuck in the middle 
 of a climb while you're being chased it is ten times more frustrating than when you screw up yourself 
 because you essentially have no control over it. 
  
  These things make a much bigger negative impact on your gaming experience because you feel so helpless 
 during those times and they can often cost you you're life. Since the creators decided to go with 
 such a system it would have been nice to see it perfected a bit more. Lets look positive some more 
 though.
  
  The environments really are fantastic. They are huge and there is a lot going on. There is an overworld 
 similar to that of Shadow of the Colossus (yet much more populated) and then 4 major cities. You 
 will always start in one city and then travel to one of the other three for your assassinations. 
 However, before each assassination there are several missions for you to partake in at each town. 
 These are pretty much the saem for each assassination which is a bit of a letdown, but honestly 
 I never really got bored with them.
  
  Some of them are real simple and basically made to give you hints at how to perform the assassination 
 where others require you to do some flag collecting or perform some extra assassinations. The flag 
 collecting done in the missions is fairly simple, however there are also a ton of flags spread 
 throughout each city you can collect which are similar to performing collection tasks in boring 
 platformers and hardly seem worth the effort. I'm not sure if they decided that putting 100 flags 
 in a city would cause players to put in extra hours with their game or they just did it because 
 they got bored and couldn't think of any good ideas, but collecting them is a total waste of time.
 
  
  After you do the first 2 or 3 cities you'll get in a rythmn of what to do at each city. Go in, 
 circle around the city saving citizens (a. k. a. fighting certain guards) , scaling the view points, 
 doing the extra missions, completing the main assassination. If there was a little more to do in 
 each city it would have definitely been a plus, but I think for the first in the series (hopefully 
 there will be more) it is a very strong title.
  
  The story is decently interesting, but the end is ridiculously bad. It's not even a cliffhanger 
 as much as it is just the end of the game. Literally, it just stops for no reason, but the gameplay 
 is really the strong point. It's also decently buggy, which hurts it, but at the same time with 
 so much going on in the game I can overlook the bugs more than I could in a 6 hour straight linear 
 game. 
  
  If you haven't checked this game out yet, I would definitely do so. It's really cool and has a 
 lot to offer. There is plenty of room for improvement, but I'm quite satisfied with what they gave 
 so far. I can't wait to see what they do next utilizing this engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semperfi122
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very well made game, don't get me wrong. The graphics are beautiful the fights 
 are fun and the story is compelling. However, all these things can get old after sometime. I've 
 rented Assassin's Creed and the first couple hours were simply amazing and the story was awesome. 
 After more hours of game play I was nearly done with the game. This game was pretty easy to play 
 there is a slight learning curve, it took me sometime to master the controls and become good at 
 fighting and it is quite fun to fight so many combos to do and so many ways to take out a person. 
 Personally I love huge sword fights they are very fun to have and sometimes present a good challenge. 
 But this game, is a single player game and after many sword fights and several assassinations it 
 begins to get old your attacks are the same as before and the game just seems to get easier, I 
 definitely recommend renting the game for a week or two or borrowing it. It definitely is a fun 
 game and will keep you playing for a couple days but in my opinion, it just gets old and personally 
 it seems to have not much of a replay value. So once you beat it or get tired of it there is nothing 
 else you can do but just play it again, I'm giving Assassin's Creed a 7.5, I think everyone should 
 rent this and if you like it then buy it but, I think you will get tired of it and want to return 
 it for a more re-playable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed (ASC for short) is something unlike anything else you will experience. ASC truly 
 grasps the meaning of next generation gaming. You play a master assassin during the times of the 
 crusades in 3 major cities, acre, jerusalem, and damascus. Each city has a very unique feel to 
 it. They are all massive cities beautifully detailed. Everything in the game is interactive, you 
 will find yourself scaleing walls, leaping, and bounding from building to building. Altair (your 
 character) moves perfectally and smoothly from each action he performs. This is a real treat to 
 see since the graphics are top notch. Textures are sharper than ever and the areas are perfectly 
 lit and shadowed. Personally I think ASC has the best graphics I've seen on the 360. 
  Combat is especially fun because of all the counter moves and assassinations you perform. The camera 
 angle breaks into different angle so you can see your kills complete with spurts of blood. You 
 have quite an arsenal of weapons such as a hidden dagger, throwing knives, sword and a short blade. 
 All of them are fun to use. Wether your using your hidden blade to pounce on someone, stabbing 
 them in the neck or using your sword to stab clear through someone.
  The music is nothing special it plays intense music while your in battle and light music while 
 walking around. If you have ever played GTA and have done side missions ASC has them as well. Such 
 as saving civilians or collecting various flags. The side missions are fun and easy unless your 
 hunting down flags in any given city.
  My only complaint is the games jump from easy to hard. More than half way through the game it suddenly 
 gets annoyingly hard, since guards notice you so so easily. But dont let that stop your from buying 
 ASC.
  Overall this may be the best game out in 2007 depending on your tase (action/adventure with a hint 
 of realism)
  
  Please rate this review thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype that AC got ever since its first announcement, does it really live it up? AC 
 promised free roaming environments based in the Crusades era Middle-East, climbing rooftops with 
 great acrobatic prowess, fluid swordplay, and daring assassinations. Thats exactly what the game 
 offers, and aside from great gameplay, the game also boasts amazing graphics. As you jump from 
 roof to roof, you can see the citizens going about with daily life, and the guards ever watchful 
 of the city. Sometimes you bump into the occasional citizen in distress, or just want to take the 
 high road and get view points of the city. The story of the game is confusing at first because 
 it takes place in two time periods, the near future, and the past. In the future, you control Desmond 
 who is being held captive in some sort of science facility and is forced to use the Animus, a machine 
 that acquires the DNA data of a person and allows him to see the lives of their anscestors. That's 
 when you control Altair, Desmond's anscestor, who happens to be a proffessional assassin. Most 
 of the game's story is shrouded in mystery, but as you progress through Altair's life, you consistently 
 go back to the present, where parts of the story are given in snippets. As Altair, you are tasked 
 with assassinating nine templars, as a trial to regain his honor after nearly endagering his order 
 of assassins. The problem with the game is that, as the story starts to make sense and you feel 
 like your getting somewhere, the credits suddenly start rolling. Especially the last part of the 
 game, you start to understand the connection between the past and present events and then the cliffhanger 
 ending comes out of nowhere. Aside from the cliffhanger ending, parts of the game tend to get repetitive. 
 Like for example, each of AC's 3 cities (Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre) are divided into 3 districts, 
 poor, middle, and rich. So for each assasination, you go to each city and you find view points, 
 save citizens, eavsedrop, steal, and interrogate. After getting the info you need, you go back 
 to the assassins bureau located in the city and get your mission to assassinate your target. After 
 a successful assassination, you go back to your headquarters and speak with your master, then you 
 get sent out to the next city and repeat the process. Though your tasks are the same, the way that 
 you can approach your target is entirely up to you and helps somewhat to alleviate the feeling 
 of repetitiveness. Overall, the game is great, especially the combat. Though I have to admit, for 
 an assassin, Altair really likes getting up close and personal. Especially near the last parts 
 of the game, I felt like I was playing Streets of Rage or TMNT in the arcade. With all the up's 
 and down's, AC is a great game that is just screaming for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advandam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  First thing you notice about this game, is it's sumptuosly detailed graphics, great lighting and 
 solid fluid animation also the free roaming makes you feel like you want to explore this world. 
 The voice acting and soundtrack are first class. That said it is hugely underdeveloped and the 
 interaction in the world is limited, mainly to wandering around fighting and pushing through crowds. 
 The main criticisms being the portracted storyline, with frustrating inability to skip the cutscenes 
 and repetitive gameplay due to the fact the missions are very basic and repeat themselves through 
 each city. However that aside it's amazingly addictive fun, requires some skill and patience and 
 ends well. Good fun while it lasts but not enough to keep you going and coming back to. Would still 
 recommend buying, to anyone that likes Prince of Persia and old school gaming but not recommended 
 if you are expecting Splinter Cell style action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  flashy quick cool and stunning everything you want to start a game off, but the you explore and 
 find the cracks in the game, like the exrtreme repetativeness of viewpoints saving citizens and 
 the really annoying insane citizens, as soon as you've visited all the cities and been in so many 
 battles you've lost count you lose a hell of a lot of interest so stick to the storyline and complete 
 without doing a great deal and you might find this game not so repetative. the highlighs though 
 are really worth looking into like assasinating guards and leaps of faith, these really show off 
 the visual prowess of the game, its also strange seeing huge blue blocks cutting the city in half 
 lol 
  to round up not a bad effort 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is an interesting story combined with the blood and guts action we expect, but 
 in a stealthy manner. It takes place in 1100 AD with the crusades going on. You play as Altair, 
 the best of the assassin brotherhood. But you fumble. You disobey all three of the tenents (Do 
 not kill innocents, do not compromise the brotherhood, and be discreet) in a mission, which you 
 then fail. Instead of killing you, The Master spares your life but strips you of rank and most 
 of your weapons. 
  The largest part of the action will be of a hit and run variety. You have two types of actions. 
 The first is low-profile. These actions are all socially acceptable, or unnoticeable (in the case 
 of the low-profile assassination) The second type (activated by holding down the right trigger) 
 are mainly things for either a quick kill or to get away from guards.
  The main weapon you use is your wrist knife. It pops out of your wrist and you stab people with 
 it (makes sense, right?) . If used in low profile it gives you about 3 seconds to escape without 
 attracting attention. You can kill as many or as few people as you want. 
  The world is great. Places to hide are about medium and just right. The guards become more perceptive 
 the farther along you get. Movement is defined by your personality. You can go slow and safe by 
 going slowly thru the streets, or do it fast by jumping from roof to roof and taking out roof guards 
 on the way.
  the ultimate job is to kill 9 specific men. In order to kill them you must gather information about 
 them by either doing a task for a member of the Brotherhood, by pickpocketing a certain person, 
 or by interrogating a certain person. When that is done you get the all clear for your assassination. 
 After you killed them by whatever means you choose ( the best is always your wrist knife) you then 
 conduct a conversation with them, which causes lots of thought and questions.
  Overall, i cannot even think of anything to complain about in this game. The only thing is the 
 cliff hanger ending which hints at a sequel, but is currently causing me a lot of anxiety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  this was my most hyped game of 2007 but its not all thet great
  here is my review
  
  1-graphics=well nice looking but compared to games like bioshock mass effect and gears of war is 
 not that great-8
  
  2-sound=great voice acting really makes the story shine (the best part of the game) =10
  
  3gameplay=perfectly 
 executed nice battle sistem that controls perfectly but more weapons and combos will be great for 
 the next one=8
  
  4-entertaining=great in ther firsts hours but it get old really quickli and that is what kill a 
 gourgeus game=8
  
  in the end i give the game a 8.5 so it count like a 8.5/10
  85%
  the pros-GREAT GRAPHICS+GOURGEUS SOUND EFFECT AND DIALOG+AMAZING COMBAT SISTEMthe final ecene is 
 amazing
  
  THE CON-THE GAME IS OUT OF DRAMATIC MOMENTS THAT MADE GAMES LIKE BIOSHOCK SO GREAT+NOT ALOT OF 
 WEAPONS+IMJ GOING TO RESUME THE GAME =KILL-STEL-KICK ASS-ASSASINATION AND THEM THE SAME IN EVERY 
 CITY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezyn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  So i have read every review under the sun for this game and agree with most of them. This is a 
 great game with great graphics, fun to play and a lot to enjoy. Yeah the silly missions get repetative 
 but thats not where the enjoyment of this game comes from anyways. The boss assassinations are 
 fun, combat is great, running around climbing and jumping off everything is very entertaining. 
 And the story... WTF?? No one has said anything about just HOW BAD the cliffhanger is in this game.. 
 and thought i was pissed at how Halo 2 ended... i damn near threw my controller when this thing 
 was over. Yeah the story line is intriguing, but they could have ended it with a LITTLE closure. 
 Like how mass effect did... yeah set it up for a sequel but atleast make me feel like i accomplished 
 something at the end. In this game... no way. this would be like watching lord of the rings for 
 the first time without ever reading the books and knowing at the end you have to wait another 2 
 years before you get to finishedPART of the story. thats why it gets a 8.5 instead of a 9. You 
 cant just gut the game off like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KontrolledKaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is a first time review but this game really made me think about what makes a good game 
 so let's give this a shot shall we? Ok, first off this game is drop-dead gorgeous, Ubisoft did 
 a beautiful job of really capturing the majesty of an ancient city and architecture. For all their 
 silly talk of "working with historical experts" or some jibbity-joo like that they suprisingly 
 came through in very fine form. Next up, gameplay. This gameplay is an interesting mix of fighting 
 and movement. The movement is perhaps the best looking action game movement ever, and i mean ever. 
 Freerunning (or parkour) along the rooftops is an image that i still cant get out of my head, even 
 after putting the game down for a while. Now the fighting was an interesting dynamic, rather than 
 making the player execute long and tenuous combos that no normal person has the patience to master, 
 Ubisoft changed it around to a rather difficult block and counter model. Oddly this is actually 
 far more realistic. To tell the truth I'm actually abysmal at the fighting and was not getting 
 a good impression of it. Thankfully i began playing the game with a friend who was scary good at 
 the fighting. This is where you really see the flow of the combat and where the potential lies 
 within the system. As other reviewers have said there is a bad case of 80's Kung-Fu movie syndrome 
 with the combat, meaning that a plethora of soldiers will stand around you and jeer but only one 
 will attack at once. If any more than that attacked Altair would quickly be overrun. The story 
 is fairly run of the mill but once again the potential is there. Given a good sequel this could 
 turn into a fantastically good series, so pray that ubisoft is listening to it's fans. Now for 
 the bad (or not good rather) The objectives of the gameplay are pretty repetitive. The game makes 
 you find the same informants and pick the same pockets over and over (about nine times) luckily 
 the movement is kind've a saving grace for this stuff. On the other hand the assassinations and 
 escapes from said assassinations are totally rad. Anyway, the game is worth the play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8torjim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  What is great in Assassins Creed, is truly great. What is not so great stops this game from being 
 an instant classic.
  
  Dont get me wrong. The game is immersive and fun. Altair is a complete bad ass in every way imaginable. 
 It is a blast working your way through the cites, climbing buildings, saving citizens, and assassinating 
 everything in site. The sword fighting is a lot of fun, especially when you get your counter ability 
 going.
  
  All that is a complete blast....... for the first 2 cities. Because that is pretty much the game. 
 Its pretty much rinse and repeat. The occasional parts where you are outside Altair's world are 
 a pleasant change of pace. Its fun, but repetitive. That being said, i couldnt stop playing it. 
 Even when i knew it was the same thing... all be it harder as you get higher, and you get upgrades 
 in skill with each mission completed. There is lots to do in the cites if you are an achievment 
 junkie... finding flags, view points, locating all 60 templars to kill etc...
  
  The graphics are absolutely gorgeous. The first time you see Damascus from afar on top of your 
 horse if you dont say "wow" you are blind. The lighting is perfect, and the characters are spot 
 on. Ubisoft set the bar high graphically. It makes the repetitive nature of the game worth while.
 
  
  My one BIG complaint, is all the hype about how you are able to scale buildings to escape... well, 
 THE ENEMY CAN DO THE SAME THING. The soldiers will climb the same building you are without difficulty. 
 It makes it impossible to escape if you have a ton of soldiers chasing you... and while you are 
 climbing they throw rocks to knock you down.
  
  I do reccomend this game highly. Its an innovative fun game that will have you playing till the 
 wee hours of the morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  With all the shooters that came out in 2007, its nice to see something different and new for a 
 change, and Assassins Creed is that something new. While there are a few problems in the game, 
 they can easily be overlooked when you're scaling a tower, then jump from the top into a barrel 
 of hay. The story of Assassins is what makes the game so unique and fresh. SMALL SPOILER ALERT 
 the game starts when the main character gets kidnapped by scientiest and want to study his anscetors 
 with a machine that can look into past memories END OF SPOILER. The majority of the game will have 
 you playing as Altiar, an assassin who in the begining fails a mission to recover the ark of the 
 covenate, and gets stripped of his rank. After that you are assigned to assassinate 9 men throughout 
 the holy land who are profiting on the crusades. From there what follows is one of the most unique 
 stories ever told in a videogame, making you question if the people your killing desirve to die, 
 and it always makes you want to know what happens next. Another thing that sets this game apart 
 from anyother is the unique control scheme that you use. Its simple to learn and is a lot of fun 
 to use. Climbing up building, which you will do a lot in Assassins, is handled with great success, 
 and from now on should be put in every action adventure game like assassins creed. It works so 
 well and is so easy to use that just climbing up viewpoints scattered thoroughout the city is a 
 blast. Combat, while not really realistic, is fun enough and gets the job done. The best part of 
 the game by far is the actuall assassinations you'll be doing, and killing people in general. Using 
 the hidden blade to go up behind someone and stab them is the back never, I repeat, never gets 
 old, and the assassinations you perform are fun and offer different ways to get in and out. voice 
 acting in Assassins is top notch, and sound very realistic. 
  
  While the bulk of Assassins Creed is impressive, its time to get to some of the negatives. One 
 of my biggest issues with the game was the AI. While its not brain-dead, the soldiers you'll be 
 killing arn't the smartest. For example say your in a chase and you break the line of sight, how 
 come when I sit on a bench where they can still see me, they just go running pass me? Or when you 
 assassinate guards on the rooftops or for informers, how come if I kill one of the guards right 
 in front of another guard, they act like they don't notice? This is what really hurts the game, 
 cause if the AI was better it would've had a good chance of getting a 9.5 or maybe a 10. There 
 are also some technical problems like collisions and some pop ups, but those are few and far between.
 
  
  For a person asking themselves if this is a rental or a buy this is a rent. Unless your the kinda 
 person who will keep playing single player games over and over this is just a rental, and game 
 you should play. It offers anywhere from 17-22 hours of gameplay, and there is a little replay 
 value to replay assassinations, get flags, or climb viewpoints, but after a good 2 or maybe three 
 weeks you probably won't play this all that much.
  
  In conclusion you should without a doubt play Assassins Creed. Its unique setting, controls, and 
 story set it apart from all the FPS games coming out in 2007, and will be and experince you'll 
 remember 5 years from now.
  
  The Good- Great Unique Story, Control Scheme is done extremly well, Assassinations are fun, and 
 killing people with the hidden blade is one of my favorite moments of 2007.
  
  The Bad- The AI could have been worked on a little more, Some collision and pop up problems, but 
 not a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorkieman91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a great game and the storyline is great. Worth the money for its realistic fighting 
 simulations and the interactivity . I would defiantly suggest you buying it, but the only problem 
 is there are too many cut scene but I guess it is a cinematic game.
  
  If I were to restart the game like I am going to I would redo all the free quests and try and get 
 as many achievements as possible some of the achievements are challenging like find all 100 flags 
 of King Richard and survive in open combat for 10 consecutive minutes, but others are easy like 
 do 50 leaps of faith.
  
  This game was defiantly well worth the wait and price, I think you should at least rent it out 
 if you can not afford it because the amount of fun I have had with this game is, well lets just 
 say it was a hell of a lot.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Storyline- 7/10
  Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OperatorBen
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  First of all, Assassin's Creed is one of the best titles that have come out all year, and it is 
 an excellent attempt at creating a new type of game. 
  
  With that said, it seemed unrealistic to me, and too easy. After you assassinate somebody you basically 
 have three choices of things that you can do. You can run along the rooftops, something that is 
 fun but quickly gets boring, you can blend in with any crowd of white-clothed monks, or fight you 
 way out. In my opinion, this is not enough options. 
  
  Also, it is unrealistic. The guards are incredibly stupid; you can walk right by them in a crowd 
 of monks who are similarly dressed and they'll have no idea that you just infiltrated their city. 
 Another option involves jumping off of high buildings head-first into a hay stack. This is called 
 the leap of faith. Don't try that at home kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecwild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Hey guys, thanks for reading my review. Assassin's Creed is a great game. And like I said, you 
 will want to play it again! I've played through it 3 times! Its worth the price.
  
  In Assassin's Creed, you play as an assassin named Altiar. Altiar troubles the assassins, so he 
 now must kill 9 men in order to restore his trust with the brotherhood. So heres when the fun comes 
 in (At least not for Altiar) . 
  
  You can kill your targets in any order you want! They all live in 3 cities. Now also, you can kill 
 your targets anyway you want! You can rush in for the kill or go stealthy. Now, if you don't want 
 to be killed, heres a little tip, do stealthy! 
  
  At times this game might not be coopertive, but still, its still fun. You might get nervous on 
 your first targets, falling down while chasing them, or simply run into a gaurd when your targets 
 right there! (These things happend to me) But you will get used to it. 
  
  Anyway, Assassin's Creed is a great game that you will have to play someday!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operamaster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The game starts in the year of 1191, the third crusade are raging on and it's up to you to kill 
 9 people that make living upon suffering and war.
  
  The game is basically about you an assassin of a special assassin clan lead by a man named Al-Mualim 
 and your quest to kill theese 9 people.
  
  It starts with you making a very big mistake by failing to retrieve some sort of artifact from 
 a tomb and also blow your cover to some crusader bad guy. You get back to the village which lies 
 before the assassins castle and you get accused of breaking the "code" of the assassins. Well you 
 get killed and ressurected by some weird reason and you have one chance of making up for yourself. 
 By killing nine people throughout the cities of Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus. At first it seems 
 as a noble quest but you will soon get to learn better....
  
  The game offers the most free experience sofar. You get to find fact and opportunites for your 
 assassination by pickpocketing, listening and threatening informants also by doing tasks for your 
 assassin bretheren.
  
  The game offers stunning visuals and an addiciting story that will keep you playing for hours upon 
 hours. The controls and how the character acts might be irritating at times but that doesnt affect 
 the game as a whole.
  
  If youre looking for a game thats addicting and offers the most free way of playing this is it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  It's the year 1191. King Richard Lionheart has taken over the Holy Land and a religious conflict 
 is stirring. You are a master assassin and your goal is to kill religious leaders fighting over 
 the Holy Land in the Third Crusade.
  
  Does all of this seem to mesmerize you? At first glance, these words seem only fit for a history 
 bluff to know, but this is but the setting of which Assassin's Creed is based on. Assassin's Creed 
 is a fresh, new IP developed by Ubisoft, the same people who created legendary series such as Rainbow 
 Six, Ghost Recon, Splinter Cell, and Prince of Persia. This bright title is perceived by many as 
 "the baby of Splinter Cell and Prince of Persia." This is often said as the game blends ancient 
 scenery and acrobatic skills with stealth action. A videogame with important names behind it and 
 numerous years of development delivered upon it, Assassin's Creed is an innovative work of art 
 that has been blessed with both creativity, and functionality of mechanics.
  
  The basis of Assassin's Creed is rather simple. There is a war going on between the Christians, 
 Muslims, and Jews for control over the Holy Land, another term for the territories where Biblical 
 stories took place. At the beginning of the game, you are on a hunt for a certain treasure. On 
 the way, you betray the tenants of the creed (do not kill civilians, do not pose unnecessary actions, 
 do not betray your allies, etc.) . Your arrogance causes you to fail at receiving the treasure and 
 fail at assassinating a Christian Templar in the way that did not need to be killed. All of this 
 alerts the Christian Templars and an attack is made on the Assassin castle. Although many lives 
 are lost, you manage to drive away the Templars from doing more harm to your people. Your master 
 then punishes you for your foolish actions by resetting your rank as an assassin back to a novice 
 rank and strips your weapons and skills off of you. Your master then gives you a chance for redemption; 
 a chance to help him free the Holy Land by assassinating Templar leaders and, the most important 
 one, Robert de Sable. This review is spoiler-free, so details will not be included of the science-fiction 
 twist or the ending of the story.
  
  The story of Assassin's Creed is very long and interesting. The game utilizes real life history 
 and blends it with stealth action to produce a very satisfying, meaty campaign. Although the game 
 offers no multiplayer, the singleplayer story is extensive and fulfilling. The gameplay is grand; 
 cities are immensely scaled to great heights, and cities go on for in-game miles. Horse rides are 
 thrillingly swift, and traveling to and from areas is appealing. Climbing walls and jumping from 
 rooftop-to-rooftop is one of the most thrilling experiences in a game of this genre; however, the 
 gameplay suffers from numerous bugs and glitches. The game engine is new, and being so, the game 
 needed more testing in order to fascinate players more. Glitches range from simple falling from 
 buildings to glitching through walls and dying. Minor graphical glitches can also hinder the experience 
 gamers receive of this game, though not as much as the game glitches. Swordplay is another key 
 role in Assassin's Creed, as it plays heavily upon your combat with guards and enemies. Though 
 all your weapons and skills are taken at the beginning of the game, you eventually receive them 
 back- one by one- and you must carefully learn how to master every skill of the blade as enemies 
 become more and more difficult. Your five weapons are the Hidden Blade (a stealth assassination 
 blade, a knife hidden in your wrist that instantly kills foes) , the Long Blade, the Short Blade, 
 Throwing Knives, and your fists. Skills range from counter attacking other people's attacks at 
 split-second timing to grabbing and throwing enemies to guard breaking their guard.
  
  The graphics in this game have come a long way since the graphics of earlier Xbox 360 games. Textures 
 are crisp and sharp, and lighting is fabulous. But most importantly is the color tone of each city 
 in the game. Different cities and areas have different color tones than others. For example, Jerusalem 
 has a green tint to it, while Acre has a blue tint to it, and Damascus has a red tint to it. Combining 
 this with the reflective and absorbing grain of the environment, and the next-generation tool known 
 as motion blur, the game's graphics are a nice touch to its presentation.
  
  The audio in Assassin's Creed is also very impressive. Throughout the game, audio is a key factor 
 that can determine who are assassins and who are master assassins. The audio helps distinguish 
 differing people, from noisy merchants in the market, to babies crying, to beggars asking for money, 
 to guards looking for a nearby murderer. The audio works well on Surround sound and provides an 
 excellent immersion of what it felt like during the Third Crusade.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a lengthy adventure, worthwhile to any gamer who enjoys stealth, platforming, 
 or swordplay. The masterpiece is an innovative work of art, combining the swordplay, acrobatics, 
 and visuals of Prince of Persia, while retaining the stealth operation-like missions of Splinter 
 Cell. The glitches and bugs seem to hinder game experience, but overall, it is a revolutionary 
 adventure worth the time of any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  I'm really excited about this game since it was first hyped in 2006. Its "interactive" environment 
 really lived up to its hype and i was not disappointed after I got this game.
  
  Graphics: Amazing! With such large cities and thousands of people in it, you'd expect it to have 
 lots of loading times but it was certainly not the case in this game. The huge living and breathing 
 world will keep you playing this game for hours non stop.
  
  Sounds: Amazing! Voice overs are well done.
  
  Gameplay: Very innovative! Smooth controls will 
 make jumping through rooftops a very fun and addicting thing to do. Afterall, there's a lot of 
 it when you play this game.
  
  Story: A great story with a bad ending... actually, it was not that bad but apparently not good.
 
  
  Overall: A great game but it lacks replay value because of its ending which will let you want to 
 play assassin's creed 2 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kymanded
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  Okay, we all know Assassin's Creed is pretty, blah, blah, blah. That is one of the few things it 
 offers. While the cities are beautifully done, they are not very different from each other. It's 
 fun to climb roofs and jump from stuff, but not $60.00 worth. Every "quest" is exactly the same. 
 Go to a city, complete, at least 3 out of 6 investigations, kill bad guy, watch sob story, rinse 
 and repeat. Then you get to go talk to your boss and have him give you back a move, big whoopee. 
 While it is definitely fun to run up to an unsuspecting guard or baddy and stab him in the throat 
 with your hidden blade, it get a little monotonous. Not to mention that by the middle of the game, 
 the guards are always on alert. One bump or crazy drunk pushes you and you have to run off and 
 hide from the crazy guards. The only way to avoid this is to walk at a snail's pace through the 
 city and wait for there to be no guards around. *Yawn* Anyway, while this game is worth renting 
 just for the graphics and a few cool kills, it is totally not worth buying. I have no idea why 
 Gamespot gave it such a great review. You're better off buying Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  OK, short and sweet: Assassin's Creed has beautiful graphics, and very fluid mechanics. The framerate 
 is fine, and the sound effects are wonderful. Very nice score, overall.
  
  Having said that, I have to say that a great deal of the game is repetitive: the main missions 
 are quests to assassinate important figures, which takes some thought to plan out, but the secondary 
 quests consist of boring tasks like finding flags scattered over a city or countryside (not in 
 logical places, either: how about in an empty room at the end of an alley way, or a ledge overlooking 
 the ocean with no way to it except from a roof?) , climbing to the tops of towers to get a quick 
 360 of the surrounding areas, saving citizens from harassment by guards, and pickpocketing or "interrogating" 
 people. There's not much more to the game than this, and it gets pretty old pretty fast. The combat 
 is not particularly difficult, even with multiple enemies. To escape, you just need to run around 
 a corner and sit on a bench, in a haystack, or in a covered garden. There are usually plenty of 
 these in the area, so escape isn't all that difficult, either. And if you should "die," then the 
 Animus restores you to the previous point before you got into trouble. Not much of a challenge 
 here.
  
  It's fun to play for some hours, but I doubt that I'll ever play it again. There is a story behind 
 the game, but it's not all that important, and it's not enough to make you finish the game if you 
 get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_bagel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Well there has been a lot of wait for this game in particular. With all the commercials it looked 
 impressive, and I think the commercials are one of the reasons why its hype built up.
  
  When I got this game, the beginning of the story really threw me off. Animus? Assassinations? Vision 
 of the Past? Whats this about? I thought this was going be in Crusader period. I guess thats were 
 it was getting at. As you went through you started to understand and adjust. 
  
  Overall this game was very good. All the wonderful cities, great graphics, smooth controls, and 
 almost any structure being climbable this game changed the way adventure games are meant to be 
 played. I was in fact expecting a bit more from this game, but I was still satisfied with what 
 I got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dadog91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the best games that I have on any platform. At first, this game may 
 feel weird to you and you think it doesn't deserve a 9 out of 10. But, once you get accustomed 
 to the way this game works, then you finally start to accomplish this game for what it's done. The 
 way everything is done is amazing. You can climb anything as long as it looks climbable. The main 
 character's animations while in combat and climbing are amazing. However, this game could have 
 been much more than it is right now. It could be right up there with Halo 3 and Bioshock as Game 
 of the Year but it doesn't deliver enough.
  The story is kind of confusing. The sci-fi twist to the story seems unnecessary at first, but in 
 the end it starts to fit together barely. The medieval storyline with Altair, the main character, 
 on his road to redemption by assassinating 9 corrupt leaders is much better. The ending was pretty 
 good even though everyone else thought it was confusing. It left open hundreds of possibilities 
 for the sequel. Should they make it a copy of Splinter Cell or play as a ninja in Japan and forget 
 the story of the first game? Finish this game to the ending and research the cryptic messages on 
 the floor and walls and you'll know what I'm talking about.
  The gameplay is great. The controls fit good. Free-running around the environment feels good because 
 it controls well. Just the pull of a trigger and the push of a button and you can go anywhere. 
 The combat is tight. The countering system works wonders even though it makes the combat much easier. 
 The various weapons you wield as an assassin in medieval times is pretty suitable. You have your 
 longsword, short daggar, throwing knives, and an innovative assassination blade hidden in this 
 contraption on your wrist.
  The main game structure is where the game repeats itself. You basically just go to HQ to receive 
 a lecture, receive new equipment, and get assigned a new target. Go to bureau leader in a city, 
 investigate your target, go back to bureau leader. Perform the assassination, escape back to bureau 
 while anonymous. Repeat 9 times. It can get dull after a while. However, the different cities break 
 up some of the monotony but not a lot.
  The graphics are amazing. Even on my standard TV, the graphics look almost photorealistic, but 
 not quite. The way you have this wide open space to traverse with no loading times is great. You 
 can't just traverse freely through the countryside and cities with no loading times though. There 
 are loading times between the cities and the Kingdom (countryside) . The framerate is hardly a problem 
 but it does skip in a few spots but the action is mostly hiccup-free.
  The audio is good enough and does the job. The music you get when you escape after assassinating 
 your target is original. Some people want that music to their ipod. When you're on top of a viewpoint, 
 you hear nothing but birds and the wind rushing past you. 
  Overall, This game is great. It has totally new gameplay mechanics and is original. If there is 
 not an Assassin's Creed 2, then I will cry. I give this game a 9 out of 10 same as Gamespot's score. 
 Forget IGN, they don't know how to rate games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  let me start this out and make this clear this review is a little biased. mainly because ever since 
 g4 first showed the trailer to this game I have awaited it. So with that out of the way the game 
 is great. the first thing I noticed was how the tutorial kind of put me off because of how complex 
 it made the controls seem. how ever you will soon see that the controls are easy to master in time 
 especially my favorite part of the whole game parkour. the whole crowd stealth thing is also ffun 
 from sitting in a bench out of sight to praying with scholars is definitely better than hiding 
 in shadows waiting for idiots to forget about you. the graphics are visually stunning with how well 
 the system can render the cities. and the cities alone deserve mention they are huge and I mean 
 huge with lots of people. though the area in between takes a little to long to travel through though 
 they are still fun. but in time you can trannsport from town to town instantly. assassinations are 
 super fun and very hard to pull of like a true stealthy assassin so dont plan on being like altair 
 in the trailers the first time around. my only to complaints are the investigations which are almost 
 the exact same for every assassination and the ending whicch leaves you hangin. so if you like historical 
 or stealth or just fun games play this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Walking in broad day light, killing at will. How does it get better than this? Assassin's creed 
 is one of the best games of the year. With the acrobatics of a spider-man games, the sword play 
 of twilight princess and a plot of splinter cell caliber. This game is just plan amazing and the 
 landscape is absolutely beautiful. Landmarks are pretty accurate to real-life. A great game but 
 doesn't live up to the hype. Set place in the future and in the time of England's holy crusade 
 of King Richard. You play as Desmond, an ex-assassin held captive by a pharmaceutical company looking 
 for secrets buried in your memories. while traveling in your memories you play Altair, an assassin 
 who has fallen from grace working his way back to place in the assassin clan. He also is trying 
 to uncover the Templars' conspiracy to kill the assassins and King Richard using a holy artifact. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatorr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I have never written a review before, although I consider myself a senior player. The reason for 
 writing this one is that I have been extremely impressed by the way AC has been layed out. The 
 characters, so alive, the environment so detailed. The motion capture and the movement of the people 
 is outstanding. The roofs, the towers, the little details all over the place. It all makes such 
 a real game, you really feel like the guy conneced to the Aenima. The location and time of the 
 events is also perfect, the middle age, the holy land. And this time, you are not even a christian, 
 you are an arab! The guys at UBI CANADA have done a great job. Please check the hashishins in your 
 encyclopedia, the assassins existed. In my modest opinion, this game is a real milestone in the 
 history of games. I hope this creates a real trend in video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is made by uber-developer Ubisoft Montreal, the fellas who brought us Prince of 
 Persia, and their latest game, which has you on a romp through the Holy Lands during the Third 
 Crusade.
  
  You play as Altair, a master assassin, who is disgraced after a major stuff up on a mission. He 
 is stripped of his rank, equipment and abilities, and you must assassinate nine men to regain your 
 rank and skills. At first, this seems like a sub-par story, but it takes some interesting twists, 
 and has you question where the line between Good and Evil is. But, on top of this, there is another 
 story going on, which you would've heard of referred to as the "Secret Sci-Fi Ending" or something 
 of that nature. This itself keeps you playing to find out what happens, so you will not be dissapointed 
 in the story department.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. If you've seen gameplay videos, you will see Altair climb up massive buildings, 
 dive off them, interact with crowds, fight, and of course, assassinate his targets. Fitting all 
 this onto an Xbox 360 controller would be impossible, right? Wrong. They found a way, and it is 
 so simple, it makes the game more fun. As you run from guards, or are trying to find someone, the 
 simple controls allow you to concentrate on the task at hand. In Assassin's Creed, you don't hide 
 in shadows and wear night vision goggles (leave that to Sam Fisher) , you use the crowd. If you've 
 killed a guy, and not been noticed, you can blend in with the crowd, and once you're away from 
 the crime scene, bust out some free running skills and dissapear.
  
  The mission structure is a tad repetitive. Basically, you do three investigation missions (you 
 can do more if you like) , and then you go and assassinate your target. But, the repetitiveness 
 is remedied by the amount of ways you can get around and do stuff. Plus, you will go through anyway 
 to find out what happens at the end of the game.
  
  The sounds are great. There is a variety of sound clips for the crowd, so you don't get annoyed, 
 and the sounds of your sword slicing through a guard is both sickening and satisfying. Perfect. 
 The music on the other hand is a bit too much like Prince of Persia for my taste at times, but 
 for the most part, the music department did a good job.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is one of those games you'll see in the shops, and either buy it and 
 love it, or not buy it and regret it later when all your mates are saying how fun it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamester36
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game had to much hype... It was good but could have been a lot better... It was way to short 
 and not enough free roam. Thee save the citizen missions get old. They need to expand off of those, 
 and have many side missions which will make the game longer. Many things can be improved, but to 
 start the series this game is great. I hear the changes to #2 are going to make the game amazing. 
 
  
  1. Longer main plot, and many many side missions
  2. Each every assasination different
  3. More free roam
  4. Make side quests, off of save the 
 citizen
  5. More than one guard attack at one time... Harder+smarter AI
  6. Easier to die
  7. MOre interaction in the modern time plot
  8. 2 ways to complete game (good 
 or evil) more interaction with words so it can change plot make gameplay different
  9. Option of harder combat system maybe using the thumb stick for different combo attacks
  10. CO-OP 
 SO YOU CAN plAY WITH A PARTNER through the game and use distraction strategies to kill the enemy
 
  
  #2 i hear is going t be alot longer more free roam and more interaction... only time will really 
 tell what it will bring... but either way im getting it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentluap
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Well at first I could not wait for Assassin's Creed, but After getting a lot of attention and seeing 
 a lot of footage and interviews about the game I slowly started to think the hype is not a good 
 sign. After it release and speaking to people I know about Assassin's Creed I got a lot of the 
 same feedback that the hype had done the game more bad than good. But then one weekend I wanted 
 to try the game out so I went to Blockbuster's and rented the game. After playing the first city 
 and doing the first assassination I knew I had to get a copy of the game when I got paid. Payday 
 came and I went out on my lunch break and picked up a copy and I'm glad I did.
  
  When the game started I thought the game was broken as alot of the details in the characters was 
 missing. But then to a sigh of belief I found that the game was ment to be like that. This was 
 a bit of a suprise as I expected the story to be based in the past and not have the futuristic 
 aspect that it had. But in my opinion it made the experience a different one and in my opinion 
 made the game more interesting.
  
  The graphics on Assassin's Creed will instantly blow you away when you see the full potenial of 
 the visuals when you visit the first city (which ever one you chose to visit first) . The visuals 
 will always be a best aspect of the Assassin's Creed experience, everything you see will blow you 
 away. The only issue I had with the graphics is sometimes the tail of Altair's cloak goes through 
 some of the scenery when you are synchronising with the view points. But this was the only issue 
 I could find with the graphics on this game.
  
  The sound on Assassin's Creed offers a lot the game. The voice acting is a strong point of the 
 game which is a great thing as a lot of the game is based on listening to advise and also missions 
 that include listening to conversations and having conversations with other members of the creed.
 
  
  The gameplay on Assassin's Creed is great, although the fighting can get repetative. The gameplay 
 is boosted by the different type of mission types while investigating your assassination target. 
 Also the side missions like the view points that you need to do to pick out the position of the 
 missions also add to the gameplay and are fun to do. Also you find another side mission from the 
 view points which is to Save some Civilians which are also worth doing. Like mentioned above the 
 fighting can get repetative but I found that countering is great fun and I switched between the 
 long blade and short blade weapon during fights to make it a bit more interesting, which for me 
 seemed to remove my attention from the repetative side of the fighting. Also the further you go 
 in the game with the assassinations you get more weapons unlocked and new abilitys which improves 
 the combat.
  
  The lifespan on Assassin's Creed is boosted by the side missions like the view points and the save 
 the civilians if you do all of these the game will last you a good few more hours. It also has 
 more side missions like killing Templars placed around the cities you visit, but first of all you 
 need to find them. Also they have plenty of flags placed around the maps for you to find, which 
 makes the lifespan a lot longer. You could also quiet happily play though the game again as well.
 
  
  Only one issue I had with Assassin's Creed is the outcome of the story is easily predictable and 
 there's a chance by the end of the first assassination you'll know the outcome of the end. But 
 you'll still play the game through and listen to what people have to say as it's still enjoyable.
 
  
  Overall the main thing you'll notice about Assassin's Creed is the visuals and you'll enjoy them 
 from the start to the end. One issue it has is people might find the combat repetative, but I found 
 switching between the weapons fixes this problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiglyBiglyFK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was a highly anticipated game and lots of us counted days to get our hands on 
 it. When I got it and played it first, I said to myself: Wow! This game was really worth the wait 
 and that's probably what you are gonna say when you first play it. But you'll be disappointed after 
 you find out that the fights aren't getting better and pretty much nothing is gonna change. Still, 
 the fun of playing it at first and the less fun of playing it after a few hours is too much to 
 pass on.
  The game puts you in the shoes two different people in two different eras. The majority of the 
 game focuses on Altair, an assassin, back in 1191, while you'll also be playing as his great-great-...-great-grandson 
 in the current time. Altough you won't be doing anything except walking, the story involves both 
 of them. Basically, scientists invented a machine that can show your ancestors memories (stored 
 in your DNA!?) . I'll explain later why this helps you a lot.
  As Altair, your boss assigned you to assassinate certain people. You must find each one, gather 
 intel on them, and then assassinate them. But don't get excited. Nothing in this whole process 
 is a tiny bit hard or tricky. 
  There are 3 complete cities in the game: Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem. Not to mention two small 
 towns and the so called Kingdom, which is a big area itself. So you'll be exploring a BIG map And 
 the whole area looks great. All the buildings, walls, the water, the mountains and everything are 
 detailed to their limits. But don't worry about getting lost, Thanks to the machine I mentioned 
 earlier you are actually controlling Altair here in 2007. So you have a GPS and everything you 
 need to stay in the track.
  Characters and other stuff look great, too. I'm glad to report this is one of the greatest looking 
 games to date. Also the cities behave good. You see guards pestering helpless people, merchants 
 auctioning, people talking, crazy people running around, beggars are begging for money, some people 
 are giving speeches to a crowd. You'll hear them whether you're among them or above them, hanging 
 on walls and standing on rooftops. When you kill somebody, people gather around and guards will 
 start questioning around. All of these are great, but it'll be a time (and that time comes way 
 too soon) that you realize you heard every dialog and seen every behavior many times before. 
 
  The controls are the game's greatest achievement. Whether you're fighting, climbing a building, 
 or walking in a crowded area, everything is so easy to learn and easy and fun to use. Too bad that 
 no fight is really hard and no building is tricky to climb. Nothing changes in the whole game. 
 You'll always be the greatest swordmaster in the whole country and no guard (not even a team of 
 guards) can take you down the whole game. Also it's strange that while at first the guards aren't 
 strong enough to be a challenge for you, the game will make you even stronger after each assassination, 
 equipping you with new weapons and skills.
  The assassinations aren't quite what we'd expect when we were waiting for the game. There's not 
 anything "puzzle-ish" to do. All you have to do to investigate your target is to find a location 
 in your GPS. Then either you have to push a button and sit and listen to somebody saying things 
 that just aren't a bit dependent on how you would murder your target, or you'll be given simple 
 missions like pickpocketing (again with a button) or capturing flags (which are located on your 
 map. You can choose your investigation, but nothing will change no matter what you do and how you 
 do it. At the end, you get the OK from your city leader and must assassinate the target. This is 
 pretty much the only thing that changes over time. Every assassination takes place in a different 
 environment and some of them are a little different from each other. 
  It is a lot of fun exploring the town. There are different kind of flags all over the place and 
 other stuff you have to collect and some side-mission-ish things like killing templars and saving 
 citizens from trouble. All of these will also give you even more advantage to your enemies, which 
 is completely useless.
  All of this said, I should also say that this game is a must-play. Not only that you're running 
 away from all the shooters around and getting something new and creative, all these stuff I told 
 you about are great. It's fun to pickpocket people, to sneak up on a guard, to blend in a crowd 
 so guards can't find you, to flee when they do, to see the reaction of people when a murder happens, 
 to climb buildings and ladders, to jump from rooftop-to-rooftop, to scare somebody and make him 
 talk, and to do a bunch of other things. But you'll be doing all these stuff a million times until 
 you finish the game and all of them would seem boring to you. There's no online mode so after you 
 finished it, it's not likely to return to your console ever.
  Assassin's Creed is NOT a great game and It isn't what we expected. But it's still a fine, innovative 
 game with a good (Yet incomplete) story and the bright side is that it's the first game in a long 
 franchise so there's much to improve. Also, the first 2 hours or so of the game will be a satisfying 
 experience to anybody. I'd say rent this game when you have time, finish it, and use your money 
 to buy a game with more lasting appeal. Whatever you do, don't miss this game, and don't get excited 
 with it too much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jphurley82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  When you are first thrown into this gameworld it is absolutely stunning. Just the way everything 
 looks and feels and the way your character moves throughout the cities is amazing. It's all so 
 fluid and natural that you'll forget that it's just a game. It feels almost like a cross between 
 a 1100 AD reality TV show and more mature take on Crackdown or GTA.
  
  The sound is great and cutscenes are very well done.
  
  However-this game is not without its 
 drawbacks. These drawbacks are not enough to keep me from recommending this game, but they are 
 something to be aware of and be prepared for dealing with before picking it up.
  
  First of all, there are basically 5 types of quests that you'll undertake ranging from eavesdropping 
 to assassinations and at first, you'll think nothing but, "huh, that's kinda cool." After a while, 
 it seems ludicrous to think that two conspirators would be out in the middle of the market planning 
 to knock off the mayor of the city with guards standing all around them... These quests seem a 
 little contrived and really start to feel like filler about half way through the game.
  
  The next downfall of this game is the combat mechanics. It is button mashing. Granted, it's refined 
 button mashing that does give you the opportunity to time your button pushes a bit, but it's really 
 missing some of thoseNinja Gaiden type combos to keep the combat fun and challenging. 
  While we're at it, what kind of assassin doesn't carry a bow??? Knives are cool, but I want to 
 zoom in on my prey from a high perch undetectable in the shadows. Unfortunately, no opportunity 
 here.
  
  The last shortcoming that this game displays is it's weak attempt at lengthening the gameplay by 
 adding collectable flags. Find the set and get an achievement! Sounds great right? Only problem 
 is there are no markers on your map to find these and with 30-100 of each set, they are almost 
 impossible to complete. Remember Crackdown's orbs? It's like that only no indicator or voice prompt 
 to let you know when there happens to be one in the vicinity. Nothing like adding 20 hours of flag 
 searching to a game for no purpose but to add 20 hours to the game....
  
  
  All this being said, this game is far more enjoyable and more polished than Crackdown, Splinter 
 Cell, or most of its contemporaries. The first 10 hours will blow your mind. The next 10 will find 
 you hunting for things and trying to unlock the secrets. Anytime after that, some of the luster 
 will be gone, but you'll still find it fun to pick a fight a with a random guard and stand your 
 ground as 12 of his buddies show up to try to tango with a Hashshashin...
  It also never gets old to hear the crowd below cry, "Ohh!!!" as the body of a rooftop watchman 
 falls right down into the middle of a bustling crowd of market goers.
  
  Lots of fun to be had here. Certainly do NOT miss this game. Certainly worth a long rental, and 
 a worthy addition to any game library.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorebashd
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  As games go this is one of the most beautiful detailed environment i have ever seen. You can climb 
 almost any building, tower and or wall in this game as long as you can see hand holds. I some times 
 run around and climb to see what i can get a top of.
  
  Overall this game is fun, and rich. The combat is your standard button masher but with a twist. 
 Each button controls a different part of Altair. For example one controls his eagle vision which 
 allows you to look around and see bad guys, and people that will help you in your quest. It makes 
 it quite exciting as you steam roll through an alley trying to escape pursuers. You can push, tackle 
 and use the crowd as obstacles. The controls are rather well done. I was skeptical when i first 
 heard about it but it really won me over.
  
  The story I wont spoil, even tho by now most people know it from youtube and reading online. Ill 
 keep to the basics. You have a list of objectives to complete and some are optional and some are 
 to move the plot forward. I personally complete everything. It gives you the full experience of 
 the game. The main objective is to assassinate 9 characters during the crusader era. The optional 
 things are the research you do of the city, helping people, finding flags and pickpocketing. I 
 will say that finding the flags even with a map is tedious and can be frustrating. 
  
  Some say after you complete the game that it has no replay value. I however am thinking i could 
 play this again and again by looking at different ways to accomplish my task.
  
  Overall this game is fun, and very unique from other adventure games. I had a lot of fun playing 
 it and will be playing it for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed excels in most all categories. The gameplay is fun. The story is compelling and 
 you'll really want to see it to the end. The enemies are well animated. The environments are beautiful 
 and huge. All around the game is great.
  
  Lets start with gameplay. Running on rooftops, stealth assassinating guards, jumping hundreds of 
 feet just to land safely in a bed of hay. Oh yea you know you love it. Needless to say it's FUN.
 
  
  The story is great and while twist and turn leaving you wondering all the time. I don't want to 
 say more and ruin it for anyone. Trust me it is great.
  
  Like it said the enemies are very well animated and move in a realistic way that feels right for 
 the game and the time period. 
  
  Combat is difficult at points, but is always fun. It will take skill, timing, and planning if you 
 want to survive for long.
  
  Assassinations are always fun and will allow you to decide do you want to go in heavy, sword swinging, 
 or stealthy and be a "blade in the crowd". No matter which you choose you'll need to plan your 
 move and ready for difficult fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr588
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is truly the one of best next gen game i have seen so far , the story line is great 
 ,the gameplay is magnificent and the graphics is awesome.
  The game has something in relation with prince of persia and we all know that prince of persia 
 is another good game and one of the main things that ubi soft did was to add some special features 
 to the game which enables it to be great and enjoyable. And to me the most impressive thing was 
 that the game was released on both the xbox 360 and the ps3 because in our region (Nigeria) the 
 ps3 is too expensive, so i chose to buy the xbox 360 after all they are almost the same thing considering 
 gameplay . And some times the graphics of xbox 360 is even better than ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Not much more needs to be said than that, to be honest, and if you're reading this because you 
 want to know if you should get it or not then do so without delay.
  
  There are few games I've enjoyed as much as this one. The original Half Life and it's sequels. 
 The Grand Theft Auto franchise. Bioshock, and now Assassin's Creed (and, potentially, it's spin-offs) . 
 It really is that brilliant, both in story and in gameplay. The flaws? OK, lets be critical...
 
  
  I really dislike forcing the game to get harder by handicapping the player, and I can see it happen 
 in this game. In the first few chapters, should you get into a large sword fight with town guards, 
 you'll be chopping them to pieces with every counter move you pull off. Towards the end, not only 
 do you start simply knocking them down rather than pulling off kill moves, but blocking their attacks 
 gets significantly more rare too. I'm not saying make the whole thing a breeze, but if I'm not 
 doing anything differently then the game shouldn't react differently - find another way to give 
 me a challenge.
  
  Secondly, very difficult endings pull you out of the game experience. This is by no means the most 
 difficult ending I've ever played but I still felt like once you get to the top of the hill in 
 your home town, the battles are a little bit too extreme - especially when you consider the above 
 - and it marred the intensity of the moment somewhat, having to replay the final 3 battles about 
 4 times a piece. 
  
  General talk on the internet has said that the gameplay is repetitive - I think a lot of that has 
 to do with whether you get into the story or not. If you get sucked into the game then the fact 
 that there's only really 4 types of mission (Save Citizen, Eavesdropping, Pickpocketing and Interrogation) 
 becomes immaterial, and the nice thing is that you have to do less of all of them the further you 
 get into the game. I would ignore this criticism that some have if you've ever enjoyed a Grand 
 Theft Auto game, for example.
  
  The story is sprawling and epic, the animation is incredibly detailed and sets a new standard for 
 humanoid motion in games, the combat is visceral without being overdone... the whole experience 
 is astonishing and very long, particularly if you explore every corner of the game world (the Kingdom 
 alone will keep you busy for hours) .
  
  Ways I would improve it - perhaps throw in extra side missions ie. someone sees you stealth kill 
 someone on the street and approaches you with a mission of their own. It would throw in some variety 
 to the proceedings. Otherwise, it's a near perfect experience.
  
  I don't know what they plan to do next but it'll be a must-purchase when it arrives, and I never 
 buy games at new prices. Roll on 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited for this game since it was first annonced. Ubi soft stayed true to there word 
 and unlike what some people may say; This is a great game.
  The game has revolutionized both story, gameplay and visual elements for all game's and is overall 
 well thought out and put together. The story is basicaly you're charector (who is local bartender) 
 being captured and forced to re-live his ancestor's life through a memeory machine. This gives 
 the game an almost futeristic theme while still keeping balance to a medievial crusade theme also. 
 
  While story and theme are a nice bonus, the gameplay, visuals and controls are what make this game 
 what it is. 
  First of all, the visuals are really somthing that makes it that much more to play the game. It 
 is not just the graphics that make the visuals worth talking about it is how they were able to 
 create an interactive enviorment while still having the enviorment look like a medevil world. everthing 
 is beatiful, sleek and realistic with only some minor glitches.
  The controls are also very well thought out. With everything that is happening in this game the 
 controls make it very easy for you to do you're duty and make it an overall less frusterating game.
 
  Although this game is impressive in all these areas the gameplay trully makes it. It has a simple 
 yet realistic battle system, gives you complete control over how you want to do certain objectives 
 and has a really fun sandbox roaming system. Also the side objectives and achivments give you some 
 extra hours to enjoy this game.
  Overall this game is top notch in all areas and why some people disliked it is beyond me. It is 
 enjoyable and if you are a fan of games and like selection to your game I would recomend it to 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usarmyone
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  gamespot is right with the good visuals sound and game control. the story is even new and cool. 
 now what about the endless number of gliches? i have seen fighting threw walls, (that right the 
 enemy can stab u and shoot you threw walls!!!) the controls are cool but somtimes he doesnt do 
 what you want them too. you might climbing a wall and want to go up but instead he jumps to the 
 side or doesnt move, this can get VERY annoying when you are running away from the guards. the 
 fighting is very interesting and can be fun, but bets very repetative and goring after a while. 
 by the forth block im sooo board of fighting them the same way over and over. i cant run because 
 thats even more fustrating, the smallest tap into a person sends you flying and u fall to the floor. 
 you can use only 4 things to kill somone and all of them are the same thing, here they are, punch, 
 stab or you can stab oooo i forgot you can stab, nuthing new. the gameplay sucks. you find information 
 and then you kill somone. you do it over and over again. the only thing that changes is the difficulty 
 threw the game which is just annoying. you go from fighting 3 people at a time to 30 (not joking) . 
 the funny thing is the guards seem pissed all the time, and only at you. if you run by them walk 
 into them of even make somone else drop a pot on there head, they will attack you for noooo reason. 
 so every 5 seconds you got to fight or run away. so i say to anyone who is thinking of buying the 
 game DONT. it will just make you mad. just about evey thing about this game blows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabresFan30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is a must have for the xbox360 with outstanding free roaming, you can climb any 
 building scale rooftops, kill anyone who pisses you off and choose when and how you want to kill 
 your target. Graphics Are great and buildings are very extremly detailed. But after a couple hours 
 of climbing and jumping on rooftops willl get boring. Fights are pretty fun with the cool counters 
 and great weapons you can wield Sword, short sword, and Throwing knifes, The story is about a guy 
 named desman who has been kidnapped by these scientist who are trying to gain a artafact of eaton 
 so that they can take everyone of their free will and make peace on earth. They try to find out 
 where it is by using a machine called the Animus which can looked into peoples ancestors memories. 
 Desman's ancestor was 1 of the greatest assasins of his time and the scientist are trying to find 
 out where the piece of eaton is. I recomend this game to anyone who owns a Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  When kidnapped by an unknown assailant and forced into a machine with the purpose of retracing 
 the genetical memories of your assassin ancestor to learn the location of an unknown item from 
 the year 1191, it's hard to say no. Seemingly confusing at first, when paid close attention to 
 Assassin's Creed's story is actually quite engaging. A convoluted plot of future technology, genetics, 
 holy wars and crusades, it gives a very solid and substantial background to one of the most impressive 
 XBOX 360 games to date - not only in graphics, but in terms of general production, execution and 
 style.
  
  After a lengthy training session, opening plot events and a range of ability loss that would make 
 Samus Aran jealous, Assassin's Creed replays a story of the past through the eyes of Desmond Miles, 
 a resident of the year 2012 and direct relation to that of Altar, our more well-known Arabic acrobatic 
 assassin.
  
  Once the concept of plot and scenario is developed Assassin's Creed truly begins to shine. Opening 
 scenes show off show nice graphics and action, but when Altar heads into his first big city the 
 game really begins to impress. Cities are enormous, filled to the brim with chatty civilians, hostile 
 guards and suburban designs that would drown out any minimalist while our hero navigates the rooftop 
 terrain with ease. Activating the first view point in the game is a moment anyone would remember, 
 displaying an amazing 360 degree panoramic scan of the entire city from bird's eye height. Unfortunately 
 this will be a bit less impressive each time you do it down to the twentieth time.
  
  Assassin's Creed has a sizable focus on city transportation. When you're a shady hooded assassin 
 trying to move from city-to-city killing and saving, a natural amount of attention gets drawn to 
 your surroundings. Assassin's Creed has a big focus on avoiding guards, conflict, and city navigation. 
 Rooftops always serve a much more adequate path around town, if only running and jumping were a 
 little more interactive. Holding the right shoulder button puts Altar into a run, while the A 
 button while add an extra sprint. Any jumps, hops or falls will be done automatically, not only 
 lessening the interactivity and mobility of the world, but often results in unwanted ledge-hopping 
 or jumping on top of a basket in the middle of a chase.
  
  While Altar moves around the city beautifully, a bit more control would have created much more 
 reward. The real skill in running is mainly directing Altar in a direction and sighting out a 
 path ahead, resulting in some erratic behavior and a break in what could be a very fluid run. Jumping 
 outwards from a cliff seems to always be pre-set in horizontal distance. Often I'd find a suitable 
 landing spot just below Altar, yet any attempts at jumping outwards would always result in the 
 same distance outwards, so it's either a leap or a fall.
  
  Once you reach a destination, Assassin's Creed varies through different missions ranging from pick-pocketing, 
 assassinations (surprise!) , interrogations and not much more. The most pressing downside of Assassin's 
 Creed is ironically the most repeated in how each mission gets a little samey after a while. Repeated 
 missions results in, for example, 3 different pick-pocketing missions that could all be confused 
 for one another as differences are minimal. Though mission objectives can get quite repetitive, 
 similar missions tend to be far apart as a good amount of city-hopping, side-missions and relaying 
 back to base can serve as some enjoyable filler.
  
  Assassin's Creed offers a variety of gratuitous stealth-based assassin moves, enacted by 3 different 
 weapons, with a large focus put on sword fights, popping up quite frequently through a variety 
 of missions. Sword fights while kept simple are more than impressive and a huge amount of fun. 
 The mechanics of sword fighting allows some amazing fight scenes as Altar takes on large amounts 
 of armored enemy soldiers. Sword movements and defensive moves are played out through certain buttons 
 when pressed at certain times. Simple and fun at first, yet a fine art to master. Later on when 
 one gets a true feel of the timing involved and a nice chunk of different abilities any sword fight 
 has the potential to be flawless, when done right.
  
  While Assassin's Creed has an engaging story in a beautiful world of fun combat, the true shining 
 point of this game is the authenticity of the Middle Eastern world. Each city is claimed to be 
 modeled after it's real life architecture, even each assassination target and the events within 
 are scoped around real-life events. While each city is amazingly defined, the large amount of citizens 
 within truly finish a convincing experience. Each citizen can speak any of many lines of dialogue, 
 proclaiming about their surroundings or pointing out when some crazed assassin is jumping all over 
 their pots. Sound not only stands out in civilians, I suggest Assassin's Creed be best experienced 
 with a good amount of volume. Sword fights sound amazing and gut-wrenching, especially when finishing 
 off an enemy results in a lengthy screaming death. Even the birds among rooftops create a convincing 
 aura of sound.
  
  Altar even has some bonding moments with his towe turban wearing civilian friends. Saving a citizen 
 in peril can result in a new pack of friends who will help hide you, or even hold down guards with 
 force when in a battle, leaving you to easily, well, stab them in the back. In another aspect of 
 personality interaction, enemy forces can sometimes react to a falling comrade, convulsing or gagging 
 at the sight of slaying, leaving them open for a sudden attack.
  
  It's the small things like turning around to see a friend you've helped in the past hold a guard 
 into submission that set off Assassin's Creed. It's convincing, immersive and beautiful, I don't 
 think I can use those words more. It is disappointing that the main downfall of the adventure is 
 missions that get repetitive and in their core, lack a certain amount of content. An hour or two 
 in and you'll have already done most of what is to come for what is a generally short game. Fortunately, 
 Assassin's Creed does more than necessary to justify this and maintain an enjoyable game. A unique 
 experience that may leave you wanting more until the sequel.
  
  Assassin's Creed
  
  90%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Unique and interesting storyline
  * Immersive and convincing through 
 amazing graphics, sound and presentation.
  * Sword fights and assassinations are a lot of fun.
  
  The Bad -
  
  * 1-2 hours in and 
 you know what you'll be doing for the rest.
  * Questionable control over Altar's mobility.
  * Transportation can be a bit lengthy and over-used. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed has been one of my most wanted games ever since it was announced. There is a single 
 player story, but no multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are very nice and sharp, it looks better with the brightness on full, but thats just 
 my opinion. Just observing the city and the views just show how much work was put into it. One 
 of the best on the 360 to date. 
  
  The sound is great, the voice acting could have been a bit better but they are decent none the 
 less.
  
  The gameplay is awesome. Just climbing up view points and just jumping from building to building 
 is very cool, and is the strongest part of this game. I love scaling buildings just for fun. Riding 
 on horses are cool, but get boring after a while. Also, the combat is just plain amazing. The counter 
 and combo kills are very satisfying. Assassinating random people is really fun, but you can only 
 kill a certain amount of citizens before dying. A shame you cant swim. 
  
  The controls at first seem very complex, but once you have played it for an hour, you find they 
 are very easy.
  
  The sound is great, the music that comes on when you are running away from guards is amazing. 
 
  
  The difficulty is disappointing. This game can only go on 1 difficulty setting, and it is very 
 easy.
  
  The story is decent, up until the end, where it gets somewhat confusing. I wont spoil it. I cant 
 help but think that the should have kept the story just in the crusades and not in present day, 
 but i trust ubisoft will deliver a good story throughout the trilogy.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no multiplayer, which i would have liked to have seen. for example, a race 
 from point A to point B on the map. 
  
  To be honest, you might play it through twice like i did, but there isnt really any replay value, 
 except colecting flags, which is time consuming , and only worth getting if your and acheivement 
 whore. You may find that you get 99/100 flags, andjust need 1 more to get the acheivement, which 
 will frustrate you. This has happened to me. Maybe they could have made multiple difficulties for 
 more replay value. 
  
  Overall, this game is worth playing, its an excellent game to have in your collection, i would 
 buy it, but others may just want to rent it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mozzierat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  What more can I say.
  Great graphics great game play, physics and sound with three vast and beautiful citys to explore 
 what more could you want!
  Well you can already tel that I totaly fell in love with this game the moment that I put it in 
 the tray.
  Why, well the story is griping with so many twists that it will leave you guessing tit the end.
 
  the voice acting is great, the citys and environments are extreamly detailed the game play is 
 fun and tight.
  the only thing that could be said against it is that the missions are abit repeditive and there 
 is no online play but who cares?!
  online play would have spoiled the exprience and the missions are fun and challenging the only 
 people that complain about the missions being repeditive are noobs that cant beat them.
  this is really a stand out game and should be purchased by any one with a 360 or PS3.
  gamertag 
 milo.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpl454
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok i'll start on a positive note the graphics are great, it's bloody, great voice acting (not including 
 Altire) , very organic and a good fighting system. The biggest problem with it it's very repetetive. 
 The small number of mission types is a big part of this I can count all the mission types with 
 one hand there are only 5. Each of them are fun ther first couple of times but then it just gets 
 boring. Even on the first assassination I started to feel the repetion. Plus I also didn't like 
 how it was all just a memory, like why couldn't be set in the middle ages not modern time, sorry 
 that part just kinda bugged me. Speaking of that every once and awhile you have to come out of 
 the "animus" and walk arounde like why would they interuped the game like that?!
  
  Gameplay: 5.5
  Graphics: 9.0
  Music: 7.0
  Story: 7.0
  
  Overall: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  In Assassins Creed you are a charactor named Desmond Miles. Desmond is actually from the time of 
 around 2050 or so and is sent back in time in a machine called the animus. Desmond becomes one 
 of his ancestors from almost a thousand years ago named Attair. Attair is an assassain that is 
 sent on a mission to kill 9 important leaders. But let's get to the review part.
  
  The game's graphic look extremely awesome with beautiful environments. It especially looks beautiful 
 when your on top of a building or on the top of a few point. The charactor design is also quite 
 amazing.
  
  The sound offers very good quality too. The voice acting is very believable and helps the story 
 som
  
  Then for the entertainment. Sneaking up behind guys and stabbing them will make you giggle a little. 
 Plus with the combo attacks it'll make you say "hah hah hah u deserved that ya ahole" Dont we all 
 love to say that. The bosses are also very fun to trie and find and kill. But the one thing that 
 hurts this game is it is often very repetitive. Most cities in the game look the same except for 
 a different color to the area.
  
  Overall this game is a must have for this year. Anyone who is a fan of Prince of Pesia or just 
 looking some good action or a wonderful adventure. The repetitivnes of the game sucks sort of, 
 but it doesn't stop it from it's awesomness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfur33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that look cool, but you don't run out and buy it. I thought 
 that it would get boring too quickly and lack that first person shooter excitement. I was very 
 wrong! I got it for Christmas and haven't been able to put it down since. The graphics are AMAZING!! 
 It is like an HD-DVD transferred to a video game. The frame rate is smooth and constant, the environments 
 are stunning, the movement is smooth and fluid, the dialog looks real, and the textures and shading 
 look wonderful. Graphics get 10/10
  
  The game play is a little weird at first. It is similar to Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider, but 
 a little different. It works very well after you spend some time with it. You don't make wrong 
 moves too often like in POP and TR. The camera works well and is adjustable to almost any angle 
 which allows you to move easily. Sword fights end up being button mashers, but there are some really 
 cool counter attacks which make it fun. Game play - 9/10
  
  The story is a little confusing, but is coming together nicely. I'm excited to see where it goes 
 as I play it more. The sound is very good. It feels like you are Altair. You can hear his equipment 
 banging when he moves. You can hear citizens mumbling, complaining, and yelling. The death cries 
 are great from fallen soldiers! The sound really makes you feel like you are in the game. Sound 
 is definitely a 10/10
  
  Overall I would say that this game is a 9.5/10. I think it is a must buy for fans of Prince of 
 Persia, Tomb Raider, and God of War. If not, it should be rented just to see how amazing the Xbox 
 360 can look on a big screen HDTV. Nice work Ubisoft!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereaper999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed along with Halo 3 is probly one of the best games on the 360 so far!! i wont tell 
 you the story because its so great all i'll tell you is that you play as a master assassin in the 
 crusades. you have 4 weapons, a sword, a long knife, throwing knives, and a hidden blade. my personal 
 favorite of assassin's creed is that you can explore all of every city, there is NO backdrop! bored? 
 well theres a guard over there, go equip your hidden blade and assassinate him! and thats just 
 the tip of the iceberg, the acrobatic moves are so smooth and simple to use, the fighting is equally 
 as simple and fun. you can also climb up ANY building! and you climb up a building by grabbing 
 on to a detail on the build in like a window, which makes AC all the more realistic.
  citezens and enemies all react to how you act. you have high profile moves and low profile moves 
 (which can be changed at the push of a button) that influence how the crowd reacts to you. when 
 you are moving through a crowd, if you gently push a person out of the way there will be no effect. 
 but if you knock the person down to move them, the crowd will unite against you. theres so much 
 in AC that i cant list it all. but i srongly urge you to buy this game, its a game you wont soon 
 forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlippyBP
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have been wanting Assassin's Creed since I first saw the ads in Game Informer. I was outraged 
 when I found out that it was going to be a PS3 exclusive game, that was until people found out 
 the PS3 isn't that great (Yes, I don't like the PS3; just don't let it affect your opinion on my 
 review) . Then it was decided that I must have then it was decided, I must have it.
  
  Seeing as it was $60, I decided to do a little research on it. Overall I gathered a pretty positive 
 set of reviews. The negatives were that it was too repetitive; after obtaining the game, I have 
 to say that I disagree. You don't always have to save the citizen to get into a town, why don't 
 you try blasting your way through? You could use different weapons, or try to climb the walls to 
 get around them. It's true that you are always assassinating people, but the game is called "Assassin's 
 Creed". Then, when you're on your horse, you can try exploring the area and collect flags and etc.
 
  
  Once inside the town, you can save citizens, gather information, or just go on killing sprees. 
 You may find pickpocketing, interrogating, and eavesdropping a little boring, but you can change 
 it up. Be creative, don't just pickpocket and run; try pickpocketing and then killing him. Who 
 cares if it hurts you, have fun. Then when you are interrogating a guy, why don't you do it right 
 in front of the guards, and have a fight to escape. Other reviewers also hate it when you have 
 a timed assassination from an informer, you fail if you are detected. You're an assassin, you're 
 supposed to kill silently. Unfortunately, eavesdropping is a tad boring, but I'm sure you can find 
 ways to mix it up for a change.
  
  As you advance through the game, you will run into drunk and mentally ill people who will push 
 you and blow your cover. You can kill them you know. You complain about the difficulty not being 
 up to par, but you claim that this makes it the game hard. A little contradiction I think.
  
  Overall, this is a great game; not the best, but great. It is only repetitive if you're not 
 creative enough to stray from the norm. I would say it is a buy and not a rent. It's too good to 
 pass up. It has great sound, and graphics. Don't take my word for it, try it yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decko5
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  The Story
  
  The game surprisingly takes place in the future. The story is inviting at first but then it just 
 drags to advance and you will loose interest right away. 
  
  The Controls
  
  It is very exciting to climb up any building. The running and diving off of buildings is always 
 exciting. The combat system is fun. it could get repetitive. the counter kills are amazing. it 
 sucks that the enemies just stand there at times. 
  
  The Graphics
  
  the visuals in this is an achievement, The 3 cities and the kingdom connecting them are truly wonderful. 
 the character models are all fantastic considering how many there are at one given time.
  
  Overall
  
  The game could have been so much greater if there was more depth into the things 
 you do. You will find yourself doing the same crap over and over and it does get repetitive. look 
 out for the sequel which will be amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ligh_warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Well if you do, then Assassin's Creed is the right game for you!
  The game starts you off with flash back, like most games now these days. well basically you're 
 inside a Simulation trying to get lost memory's from your ancestor. the gameplay is strong but 
 sometimes it can get really annoying and boring fast, there are few glitches in the game (most 
 of them are during fighting scene) the fighting sequence in the game is really hard and fustrating 
 at first but after time you will slowly get use to it. You also have a huge world to explore, with 
 some bonus missions like capturing flags, killing templar knights. the only problem Assassin's 
 creed has, its that it gets REALLY repetitive, but if you have the patience this wont be really 
 a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this is among the best next gen games and definatly one of the best games I 
 have ever played. The graphics are outstanding. There are a few minor frame rate issues but they 
 are so far apart it is hardly worth a mention. The story is amazing but a bit confusing. A great 
 example is trying to compare it with a very complex movie story like JFK. There is so much going 
 on at once that if you don't pay attention to you'll be utterly confused. This is intended to be 
 a trillogy I think so why the ending is a bit confusing it is still very satisfying. The side missions 
 arent bad at all they are actually very fun and most of the ones inside the cities add more to 
 the story but there is one side quest that is a pain in the ass. That would be finding all of the 
 flags from the numerous factions. The best way to do that is to just explore and find as many as 
 you can. Don't spend all your time trying to find them all or you'll get frustrated. The music 
 and voice acting are outsatanding as well. This is Indeed a great game and a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguindapimp
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  what can i say this game is just a masterpiece, first game i've ever played for about 8 hours straight 
 on not get bored, if that happens then this game is perfect and will keep me entertained for probably 
 years to come, combat is smooth with the transitions with weapons to the counters it all just fits, 
 then you also have to work up to obtain your weapons and skills and start from scratch after your 
 domoted, then the interagations and eavesdrops are so detailed that you think that your there listening 
 to their conversations, the assassinations of anybody and everybody always keeps me happy exept 
 that you can't kill cilivians until you beat the game once, the minimal downside is that you have 
 to leave to become a human who can't do anything except walk around and sleep 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is definitely an amazing game. The game goes around an assassin named Altair you 
 go around killing people of high rank, why? You'll have to find out as you play. This game is something 
 original, new and very well welcomed.
  
  Gameplay: Cool. The game goes around you killing high ranked templars. How to do it? Well, first, 
 you must take a look at your background, you get to the top of selected high buildings and inspect 
 the area. Then you gather information, this part is where I got mad a few times, you need to get 
 3 info. pieces, there are 6 on each city, but sometimes it's difficult to notice who is the person 
 carrying the information; you can get info. by eavesdropping, pickpocketing, interrogating, and 
 completing tasks. After this, you'll finally be able to do the assassination, which is pretty awesome, 
 and you'll be relieved once you make it. The battle system is pretty easy, but when surrounded 
 by many enemies, you'll have to pretty much counter-attack most of the time, but this is not bad, 
 most of the time, when you counter-attack, you'll enter a quick cut-scene which is very cool and 
 detailed. When you're not assassinating people, or recovering information, you can save civilians, 
 get to all the view points, or get all the flags scattered through the land. This is pretty much 
 it for the gameplay, what you'll be doing in game, it may sound repetitive, but my friend, it's 
 an amazing ride.
  
  Visuals: Simply outstanding. Everything looks so real, the buildings, the people (sometimes) , the 
 landscape, the effects... it's so beautifully detailed, and since it's from the Holy Land, it looks 
 even prettier.
  
  Sound: Great voice acting, great sound effects, and great music. It all goes well along the game.
 
  
  Controls: Really easy, the combat combinations are easy to learn. The only thing is that when you 
 run, you'll sometimes climb things you don't want to climb, but it's not a big of a problem.
  
  Overral: Assassin's Creed is an amazing game that everybody should try. It may be repetitive, 
 but everything else that it offers you will make up for it. The visuals are amazing, as well as 
 the sound. The theme is just awesome, it will make alot of you want to play it, and you wont go 
 wrong.
  
  Go play Assassin's Creed now! It's about 15 hours long, but they're worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burney77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed has the best graphics on a new generation console i have ever scene. When i first 
 started playing assassins creed i thought it was heaps cool you could climb every building in any 
 city you vistited and you could pretty much kill anyone you pleased. The games graphics are phenomenal 
 in the way everything looks so realalistic when your at the top of the highest peek in a city and 
 you can still see everything in such great detail. Also even if your just walking down the street 
 you see your shadow move where ever you move and when your blade pierces the throat of a near by 
 enemy you see the blood splatter every where! But there is a few floors in the laws of gravity 
 like when you do the first mission you do the 'leap of faith' there is no way that landing in or 
 on hay will break your fall. Other than that Assassins Creed is the best game i have ever played 
 so far. 
  
  Signing out Burney77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  When I frirst put Assassian's Creed into my Xbox 360, I didn't know what to expect. It got so many 
 different reviews. Some like Gamespot say its a great game. Others like EGM say its dissapointing 
 and boring. I'll be the first to tell you that it really is a good game. The control scheme first 
 of all isn't all that complicated, making each button correspond to a different part of Altair's 
 body. Through them, you can attack, grab, throw, sprint, and many other things. The sound is amazing, 
 using a varied soundtrack to immerse you. You cna even hear one of the many inhabitants talking 
 about you. The graphics are just as good as the sound, continually pushing the 360 has really shown 
 what it can do. The story is also good, you have to assassinate 9 people from the time of the Crusades 
 to acheive back your rank. To do so you must collect information about your target, such as where 
 they will be and when, through missions like pickpocketing and eavesdropping. The only dissapointing 
 part about the whole thing is its ending, which seemed more like an advertisement for an inevitable 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpusha
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I really was dissapointed with this game when i first seen this game i was thrilled to get it but 
 after playing it for 45 mins it got really stupid i mean this game dose not even fit in with the 
 title u are straped to a table with people showing you memories i managed to get passed the first 
 level but after that you get off the table and u have to do something u her the man and the woman 
 the game dose not make no sence u jump off a 80 foot piller and u land in a little bit of hay i 
 can say ubisoft made another good game a pice of trash please do not buy this game you will be 
 out money but as for a 9.0 it dose not deserve a 9.0 .it in my mind is a 5.5 the story is weak 
 three hits of your sword kill anything if u ride your horse to fast soliders come after u if you 
 kill inicent people people come after you but you can kill them in one hit *-- [] ::::::: [] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  This is a one of a kind game combining the Prince of Persia flippy tricks with a vast new look 
 and a massive landscape filled with cities to explore and tall buildings for you leap across. I 
 took my time with Assassins Creed I didn't rush to beat it at all because I was enjoying it so 
 much.
  Unlike most games I could never see myself getting bored with Assassins Creed its fun, inventive 
 and just overall a really great game.
  Assassins Creed has got to be the only game I know which actually encourages leaping off tall towers.
 
  The game is trying out some new techniques such as sneaking past guards by blending in with the 
 slow moving scholars and leaping out of crowds to assassinate your target. As for the fighting 
 in this game I was very impressed
  Its not the boring old pointless repetitive button mashing crap, no it's all about timing and accuracy 
 and actually thinking.
  Assassins Creed did live up to its hype but no better, it still remains as one of the funnest third 
 person actions adventure games for the Xbox 360.
  This is actually one of the few games where i went off and did side missions.
  Normally I find 
 side missions boring and pointless but in this game I gave them a shot and really enjoyed it.
 
  The setting is spectacular and I really loved it in some ways this game is very similar to the 
 classic PC game thief except this is third person and much more action oriented.
  The game does take a while to get going but once it does i guarantee that you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-d4wg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed takes into hand aerobatics, sword fighting and... helping the poor townspeople.... This 
 game is awesome it incorporates all of the actions and forms of society that would have happened 
 if you just came out of nowhere and stuck a dagger into someone, that is if your swift and arn't 
 seen, then you won't be punished by the patroling guards!! haha. A really good and easy to follow 
 story as you investigate each of your assassination targets by either pickpocketing information, 
 eavs dropping, interrogating or your informor may guide you in the right direction with his knowledge 
 if you help complete his tasks.. sometimes the fight scenes may seem a bit repetative after a FAIR 
 while but hey thats pretty much the story in GTA and look how far their games went!!! The free 
 roaming ability is a relief when your just bored to the point of destruction!! which doesn't really 
 happen! because you skip that stage and go to the frustration stage because of the millions of 
 guards wanting to beat you up. Stunning graphics and gameplay always keeps you on the edge of your 
 seat for part of the ride. With a rather average array of weapons and tactics it still does alright 
 in the rather ordinary fight scenes which can be a bit of an annoyance at times.. but all in all 
 this game is a pretty good time eater and is pretty fun, mainly because of its well structured 
 REPETATIVE story line --  all the ways to kill each of the 9 guys are the same; pickpocket, your 
 friend the informer, interrogate. It does get boring after a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out kinda confusing but as you get closer into the game it becomes cooler and 
 cooler. The grahpics and the gameplay is awesome especially when you can stab the sword threw the 
 guy. I also love the fact that you can climb the buildings and towers and its just awesome. I love 
 the weapons especially the pull out blade and the blade on the back (have ya ever fought a guy 
 with the blade from the back in close combat and you punch him and he is dazed and you press x 
 and you stick the blade in his head try it, its awesome) . I love killin the guys and its pretty 
 funny when they try to climb up the ladder or something and you just stay at the edge and you just 
 wait for them to come up and you slice them its hilarious! Well im still on the last level and 
 im tryin to survive when the guy tells the priest that im here and more templars come out and chase. 
 Could anybody tell me what you did to survive this mission. Put overall this game is one of the 
 best games ive ever played, this game is something that everyone must have in there collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: user5689
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited when I got this game. I actually held it close to my body with glee, something 
 I have only done with two other games, Mass Effect, and (When I finally tracked down a copy of) 
 Planescape: Torment. I popped it in with just as much glee. I was astounded by the introductory 
 sequence, in one of the games few moments of real excitement.
  
  And the the repitition set in. You've probably heard a lot about the 3 side-quest's. At first, 
 I didn't mind these, but by the 2nd memory block I had grown tired of them, but I trudged on.
 
  
  And then the constant assailing of dialogue. (This coming from someone who adores both Planescape: Torment 
 and Mass Effect) It's not that the fact that it's unnecesary, or drawn out. It's just so damn... dry. 
 I normally revel in aa cutscene soaking up as much story as possible. In this game, I was begging 
 for some kind of "SKIP ALL THIS **** DIALOGUE!" feature.
  
  And then there's the rest of the game. The acrobatics, fail to even resemble a shadow of Prince 
 of Persia's glory. I realize that Altair is a normal human, with human constraints. That's not 
 the problem. Part of what made POP so great, was the death trap's, the feats of acrobatic glory, 
 and the pick-up-and-playness of it all. It was platforming nirvana. And I didn't miss those things 
 for a few hours, but after awhile you get bored of holding R+A at the same time to perform EVERYTHING.
 
  
  Now the good of the game. Graphically, it is amazing, each city has it's own color scheme, giving 
 them their own feel.
  The sound design is great, with music that almost manages to match Stuart Chatwood's Arabian-Rock 
 awesomeness in POP: Sands of Time/Two Thrones (Which, if you liked, check out the band he played 
 Bass in, The Tea Party. The Edges of Twilight=Greatest. Album. Ever.)
  
  This game has much to improve upon before I will even think of touching the inevitable sequels.
 
  However, I have high hopes for those games. The POP team is quick to learn from it's mistakes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Span5
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  In the beginning there was our first glimpse of Assassins Creed at E3, and it was good What happened 
 to the amazing game that we were all promised?!? I was expecting a life changing event, and instead 
 I got a game that made my brain hurt with mindless repetition and asinine AI programming. 
  
  If you haven't figured it out yet, this review is probably going to make a lot of people out 
 there very upset, but I don't care. I am not writing this for the eight million fourteen year old 
 fan boys who think that AC is the best game on the face of the planet, or the dude who saw the 
 commercial and decided that he would run out and buy the game because he has way too much bloody 
 money anyway This is a review for gamers like myself who are impressed by a pretty package, but 
 also want a game that will play like a next gen game should. So, if you are out there my fellow 
 gamer, and you haven't played this game yet please READ ON!!!
  
  Make no mistakes about it, this game is absolutely beautiful. The textural detail is downright 
 stunning in some areas, and I was impressed by the skybox detail of rolling clouds that cast real 
 time shadows that they were able to include seamlessly in the game. This is something that we saw 
 in Call of Juarez as well, but no one cares about that game anyway The beauty of the game, in 
 combination with the dynamic environment, the semi-solid combat system, and the Havok physics engine 
 are really the only reasons that I was able to keep playing through everything that I hated. I 
 would actually venture to say that those aspects were pretty much the saving grace for this title. 
 I certainly don't want to discount the crazy storyline either but I don't want to include any 
 spoilers in this review, so figure all of that out for yourself if you dare. With all of that being 
 said, I am lead to my first major complaint about this game which would be that it simply felt 
 unfinished in certain areas. It blows me away, that we could have a game delivered that looks as 
 amazing as this one does when you are standing still, but the animation for walking up stairs is 
 simply non-existent Didn't they think that we would notice that you are magically gliding up stairs, 
 and that your feet are traveling through solid objects? I know that all of this may sound a bit 
 critical, but it is always the little details that can take away from a great game and pull you 
 out of the experience. 
  
  Ok, enough playing around I want to get into the real reason that I gave this game a bad review. 
 The magic word of the day is REPETITION!!! That's right folks, this is one of the most repetitive 
 games that I have ever seen in my life! I can break the entire first 6 hours of the game down for 
 you in a couple of sentences. You leave your lair and hop on your horsie to travel to these ancient 
 cities. Once you arrive, you will need to save a citizen outside the front gate to gain access 
 inside the walls "yes, it is the exact same drill for every city that you go to." Once inside, 
 you will climb the first perch that you find to get a lay for the land, and dive from there into 
 a pile of straw. Doing this will gain you access to a variety of simple and mindless missions, 
 which I will list now and explain in a second. You will have one or several of these missions available 
 to you, pickpocket, interrogation, eavesdropping, informant, or save the citizen. The pickpocket 
 mission consists of you finding the dudes that they want you to pickpocket, standing there while 
 they talk for about 2 minutes, then walking behind one of the guys and holding the B button. If 
 done correctly, you will pickpocket the guy and complete this mission. Simple as that, and you 
 will do it dozens of times in this game. Eavesdropping consists of finding your target, and then 
 locating a bench to sit on Yes, I said locating a bench to sit on. Once you do that, you can target 
 the people you are supposed to listen to, and push Y to listen more closely. After about a 2 minute 
 conversation your mission will be complete and you will move on. Yes, you will do this dozens of 
 times as well Interrogation consists of you listening to some dude rant to a crowd of people that 
 aren't even there most of the time, then following him to a dark corner and beating the crap out 
 of him. Informant missions make no sense at all, since they are mostly timed and can be almost 
 impossible in the later parts of the game when the guy wants you to assassinate 5 targets around 
 the city in 5 minutes, while the slightest bit of detection fails the mission for you and by the 
 way, if you are detected you will be in the midst of about a 5 minute battle with 15 guards or 
 so. Once you complete enough of these mindless quests, you will gain access to the "bureau" which 
 will allow you to carry out your assassination. The assassination quests are fairly interesting 
 and quite often fun as well but are straight forward as well.. Find guy, kill guy, run away... 
 Wash, rinse, repeat... I didn't forget about the save the citizen missions, I just didn't mention 
 them because they don't actually advance the storyline at all. They are a way for you to acquire 
 allies in the cities. 
  
  The other major gripe that I had was the AI. The guards seem downright idiotic sometimes when you 
 can dive off of a huge tower right in front of them into a bail of straw and they don't even seem 
 the least bit suspicious. Or simply holding the A button and folding your hands will be enough 
 to convince most guards that you are not a threat even when you have 2 swords and numerous other 
 sharp objects hanging from your person. The developers tried to add difficulty later in the game 
 by adding these drunk people all over the place that will push you for no reason if you come near 
 them. This serves to break your cover and alert any guards or targets that are near by. VERY ANNOYING!!! 
 There is no way to stop this, and it gets old very quickly. Couldn't they think of a better way 
 to add difficulty? 
  
  I don't want to write a novel for you here, I just wanted to share my disappointment in this game 
 as a whole, and some examples to back everything up. All in all, this game wasn't horrifically 
 bad, but it wasn't good either. It does enough to remain interesting until the end, if you can 
 manage to break the monotony with some swan dives into straw. By the way, I found it interesting 
 that your character can fall 5 stories into 2 feet of hay and be fine, but if you fall into the 
 water, you die instantly Anyway, don't go buy this game like me Rent it, beat it, and move on 
 if you feel so compelled. 
  
  
  Thanks for reading this,
  Brandon 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hidesinshadows
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply this is an amazing game with lush environments, a great story line, and a true 
 bad - ass for the main character. I find the complaints that it is repetitive to be rubbish, these 
 small missions may take a maximum of two minutes to accomplish and are realistic ways to how information 
 would have been gathered back then (I rather doubt Altair had access to the net) . Besides we all 
 know what this game is about, free running from the guards until you feel like making them suffer 
 at the hand of one of your blades, there is nothing more satisfying than slitting a guards throat 
 with your short blade and dispensing of the fleeing cowards with throwing knives. Altair is part 
 same fisher part ryu hyabasa and a part prince of persia to create an all around powerhouse of 
 a character who looks cool to top it all off.
  
  It is rare that I am put into awe like this from a game but then again what should i expect from 
 a company who also makes splinter cell and the prince of persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wproiet1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great. Good graphics, sweet story, cool weapons and open world fun. I love messing 
 with guards, then getting into a fight. I admit the ending was meh, but that dosent change how good 
 this really is. My favorite weapon is the hidden blade. You can, for say, jump off a rooftop and stab 
 it into your enemy, causing him to well, DIE!!! I have to admit though, some of the training level 
 was annoying, but when you get right into the action, prepare for fights with guards. The graphics 
 are simply stunning having you wonder if your watching a show on TV. Okay im going to name some 
 spoilers here so dont read on if you dont want it spoiled. The story really takes place in the future, scientists 
 have taken your character so they can experiment. The new invention can track the DNA of a being 
 for say a human, and then let the person experience their ancestors memory. So this time though, they 
 are trying to figure out why major figures were killed in the 1100's. Your ''ancestor'' altair is 
 a member of a creed. You need to get certain items and kill certain figures. You then try to kill 
 a target and he escapes. You are then stripped of your weapons like the hidden blade. You have to 
 earn them back by doing what assasins must do, kill. Then you recieve some of your items back. Okay 
 ill leave you with that. So overall awesome, classic game that redefines the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGGREVIEWS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Well a lot of us have been waiting for the arrival of assassin's creed and the wait has been almost 
 unbearable. And finally it has arrived for the xbox 360 and the ps3. Both versions have no differences 
 (except the achievements for the 360) and really couldn't really count as a strike in the console 
 war.
  
  You play as altier, an assassin who has messed up and must now fight his way to the top, to regain 
 his rank he has to assassinate 9 men who are helping ignite the flames to the holy crusade. As 
 altier kill each guy he kills he finds a piece of a puzzle, which finally brings you to the end 
 of the story. You not only play as altier but also his ancestor who also has his own problem to 
 deal with.
  
  The gameplay is a bit shotty and easy; once I had learnt the counter strike move it was just to 
 easy of a game. Once you get used to all the running and jumping you find that there is nothing 
 left to learn in the game and also that if you take the leap of faith guards will all of a sudden 
 lose you.
  
  Another annoying factor of the game is movement, say if you walked past a guard while running he 
 would all of a sudden chase after you and kill you. Also when your on a horse, your horse has to 
 be a certain speed in order for you not to be spotted and that speed is walking. Each city aren't 
 that far away from each other but having to slowly walk to each city is boring so as a smart gamer 
 would do, you would run there.
  
  The xbox 360 achievements are way to easy. Once you have completed the game once you probably would 
 have got about 750 GS of it. You get achievements for each time you complete a part of the story, 
 now that's good for a game but I don't think your meant to get 50 points every ten minutes.
  
  When you have completed it the game puts you in a sticky situation were you just walk around 
 having to do the entire mission again (if you wish) . So I would advise that you trade the game 
 in after you played it.
  
  The game is a perfect action; adventure game and the story line would make you think twice at every 
 corner and some intense chasing scenes. But the game does lack the point of continuing once you 
 have completed it. I wouldn't go all hype when they release number 2 if number one couldn't offer 
 as much as it should of.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteeleInd
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great action-adventure role playing game, with fast paced action and a control 
 scheme that begins to feel more and more natural every time you play it. Set in medieval times 
 (for the most part) , the swordplay is very intuitive, with an advanced counter system, and combo 
 moves to execute. The battles are fluid and smooth, and everything you could hope for from a game 
 of this genre.
  
  Assassin's Creed also features a rather large, completely scalable world. Any level of the city 
 is fair game, from the ground, to the top of massive castle towers. The climbing system in Assassin's 
 Creed is comparable to that of Crackdown, however the movements are much more fluid and realistic. 
 Not only are the cities large, but they also feel as if they are alive. Civilians crowd the streets 
 and go about their everyday lives as you stalk your targets.
  
  Of course, this review would be worthless if I didn't mention the graphics. Assassin's Creed features 
 some of the best environments and most detail that I've seen so far on the Xbox 360. The environments 
 look true to life, and the detail on building walls, rocks, people, and even things as insignificant 
 as decorative flags, is astonishing. Assassin's Creed surely shows what our new generation of video 
 game consoles can accomplish.
  
  Probably the most important, and remarkable aspect of Assassin's Creed is the Storyline. Assassin's 
 Creed features a historcal fiction story that seems as if it actually happened. Every part of the 
 story is plausible and realistic. The story is deep, and keeps you coming back for more. It's rare 
 to find a game with a truly engaging story among all the mindless action games out there, but Assassin's 
 Creed certainly shines through.
  
  The only disappointment I have about this game is the lack of any form of multiplayer. Although, 
 I realize that it may seem out of place in the game, and the creators probably had their reasons 
 for not including it, Multiplayer would have added to the game's replay value. Once you beat the 
 story in Assassin's Creed, what is there left to do? Start over. That's all you can do. Sure, almost 
 every encounter in the game can be done hundreds of different ways, but a multiplayer would have 
 been a more enticing reason to pick the game back up after you beat it.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a fantastic game, and the most enjoyable singleplayer experience 
 I've had to date on the Xbox 360 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigO62
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Ok, first is first. The story was pretty solid for how long it took them to launch this game. The 
 graphics pretty much blow your mind like most games on xbox360 will. The story is you start off 
 as a cocky assassin that follows pretty much his rules. Then he has to prove himself to the brotherhood 
 and earn your weapons and all that back. Thats all ill say bout that. So your pretty much sent on 
 assassination trips. The only negative about this is you do almost the same thing when you go to 
 new citys for assassinations. Eavesdrop, beat some1 up for info, or pickpocket. I noticed this around 
 my 3rd trip to kill. The replayability isnt so great but thats just me. The best part is at the end 
 cause i know youll be freaked out like i was. All around id say buy it but it only took me like 
 4 days to beat so choose wisely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Story: Crazy. But the Meta Story can be confusing and easily predicted.
  
  Missions: GTA-Esque. You can save citizens, climb the tallest buildings, collect lots of flags 
 and slay many guards. Other than that it just the main quest line of taking out 9 important leaders.
 
  
  Controls: Nice. Very Slick and some of the best combat mechanics on a console.
  
  Features: Gore, Awesome kills, free running!
  
  A. I.: Annoying at times but that's why you 
 slay them!
  
  Loading Times: Average.
  
  Graphics: Perty. 
  
  Audio: Voice overs are decent (main character's is lame though) though you will hear lots of repeats.
 
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Requirements: 360. No live needed. 
  
  The Good: Exciting free missions and main quest line.
  
  The Bad: Glitches and linear side 
 missions can leave you wanting more.
  
  The Ugly: The twist!
  
  Replay Ability: Medium to High.
  
  The Bottom Line: If you love the time period and a crazy 
 story pick this up, if not just rent it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iancwm
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Good : Graphics make the world believable, not like all the unreal 3 engine games where everything 
 becomes too shiny. Dialogue is clear and comprehensible. Combat system is seamless, and very intuitive. 
 Level design is realistic and natural, yet done in such a way when you see a brick sticking out, 
 you know instantly that the wall can be climbed. Navigation is easy to learn yet not so easy to 
 master. Realistic blood that does not put off those with weak stomachs. Infinite ways to tackle 
 the game : Stealthy or loud? Save the citizens or cut straight to the chase?
  
  Bad : The templars are more powerful than a group of 10 guards put together, and this can be a 
 little bit imbalanced. Flag achievements are extremely time consuming and hard. 
  
  Final Verdict : This game has all the good traits from many games, like the pick up and play difficulty 
 of GTA, realistic (note realistic, not next gen) graphics of GRAW, the middle-ages setting of Thief, 
 the stealth-rewards-you style of splinter cell, and the exciting combat of God of War (simplified) . 
 There is none that blends all these so well like Assassin's Creed. Lack of online means that you 
 will probably wait for a holiday to come so you can borrow it from a friend or rent it, and play 
 for a solid 3 days to unlock your achievements, but even if you do buy it, you wont regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lu1500
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  It features life-like A. I., which really helps flesh out the expansive world.
  Altair is as interesting and memorable a character as Ubisoft's other stars, Sam Fisher and The 
 Prince of Persia. The most notable aspect of Altair's character is that he has apparently invented 
 parkour (free running) about 800 years before the French. The assassin can leap, swing, climb and 
 scramble across nearly any surface, and use the rooftops as his personal expressway. Controlling 
 his movement is a simple matter of manipulating the R trigger and A button to tell the game what 
 you want him to do and where he should do it .The world can feel a little too expansive at times. 
 The gigantic environments can be overwhelming. Fighting mechanics take practice to master. day/nigth, 
 weather effects, lots of animals like wolfs one of the best games of this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok. First off this game is very good, but the reason I wouldn't recomend paying the price it is 
 now is because once you beat the game...... well..... you kinda dont wanna play it again for awhile. 
 Let me explain a bit.
  
  First off the graphics are amazing, some of the best for 360 up to date. The gameplay does seem 
 to repeat alot, but thats ok because the story wants you comming for more. Story is really entertaining, 
 love how you can move the angles during the cutscenes for your OWN angles. This game will keep 
 you entertained for hours. But after you get all the acheivements and beat the game 2 or 3 times..... 
 you kinda dont wanna play it alot anymore. Reason being that you know whats going to happen and 
 have nothing to catch your eye. So, youll probably put it away for awhile or go to gamestop and 
 trade it in. Which is why I would recomend this game, but dont pay more than like 30 bucks for 
 it.
  
  Overall the game is awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  This year I've played a lot of good games, but Assassin's Creed was definitely one of the best 
 games. There were many good things and only a few bad things.
  
  The whole atmosphere was fantastic. I compared this game to Oblivion before I got it, but Assassin's 
 Creed was better. In Assassin's Creed, the crowd actually gave a realistic reaction to when someone 
 was killed. You can't say that about Oblivion. The different animations in which to kill people 
 were spectacular. (I wish you could be able to decapitate the enemies thought) . You could slice 
 their head, stab them in the stomach, break their arm, etc. The campaign was pretty long too. Your 
 goal was to kill 9 people (actually 10) , and their were mini tasks to do along the way. Climbing 
 walls is definitely fun. There are many achievements you can get in this game. There are many other 
 great things about this game, but I don't want to spoil anything.
  
  The bad: There were a couple of setbacks in this game. The whole "Desmond Miles" part was a waste 
 of time. Sometimes in the game, if you assassinated somebody right in front of a guard, they would 
 have no idea who did it unless you started running away. And for some reason in this game you can't 
 swim, so you die if you touch water (except for a fountain) . Also there was a little clipping in 
 the game.
  
  Overall this game was fantastic and you should definitely get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  At first, I thought Assassin's Creed wasn't good and about everybody would hate the game, but when 
 you play the game your opinion change about it. The gameplay is incredible. The thought of just 
 pushing people and how they react to you is just brilliant. The graphics is not as incredible but 
 its decent for the game. The story of the game is really thought out and is an great story. You 
 are a bartender and your ancestor was supposedly an assassin and a pretty good one at that. The 
 assassin (named Altair) has to kill 9 men to regain his honer after a tragedy that the people blamed 
 on his reckleness for not listening to them. The game has its off moments but it still manages 
 to shine. I reccommend this game to anyone who wants an action/adventure game and dont hesitate 
 to buy it because its a great game. This game is one of the best games out there and a real treat 
 to gamers who just want to play the game and not play Xbox live on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilsaf21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Now some might say it isn't a great game because it can get very repetitive on what you do and 
 where you go, though that doesn't seem to limit the fun that drastically at all. Several unique 
 counters as well as others ways to kill fuel the gamers' desires for blood and violence.
  A good story base, it takes place where many games don't touch. Graphics are fairly good, and though 
 there is a problem with the A. I. being so moderate, it still makes for an all round terrific game. 
 So I recommend this game to all who enjoy being able to sneak up behind someone unannounced and 
 taking them out, to be technical and swift, to be able to pick off enemies at a distance or to 
 get gruesome face to face in a vicious sword fight. I rate this 9.5/10 because even though it has 
 its faults, they don't take away from the game play enough to even lose a full point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  DISCLAIMER: As an Arab myself this review may contain sentiments.
  
  YAYS
  Stunning graphics; beautifully built cities; assassinations themselves are fun; messing around 
 in the cities is entertaining; interesting dual story that gets intense near the end
  
  NAYS
  Altair's voice acting is horrendous; mind-numbingly repetitive gameplay does not evolve; 
 except for an achievement point, there is no motive to be stealthy; no subtitles (how will we understand 
 the names?) ; second story revealed way too soon; abrupt ending; some technical issues
  
  Writing a review for Assassin's Creed is a difficult thing for me but I will try my best to make 
 it as objective as possible.
  
  As the name of the game implies, you play as an assassin - in 12th century Third Crusade which 
 takes place in three cities: Crusader-occupied Acre (Akka in Arabic) , Damascus and yet-to-be-marched-on 
 Jerusalem. Your main headquarters is the Syrian city of Masyaf, where the Assassins (Hashashins, 
 then) had their stronghold during that time.
  
  You take on assassination missions - 9 in total - from the Assassin Grand Master, Muallem (which 
 in Arabic means "teacher" or "master") . You then set out to assassinate your target in whichever 
 city it is set in. However, before the assassination, you are required to gather information about 
 your target.
  
  Gathering information in any of the three cities requires you to do some tasks, which unfortunately 
 is the downfall of Assassin's Creed. In ALL of the nine missions, you need to gather information 
 by: Interrogating a suspect, eavesdropping on certain people, pickpocketing certain others and 
 do some task for an informer or two. You can also save citizens in the area and you have to climb 
 "viewpoints". I will explain on this in individual paragraphs.
  
  Your first order of any mission is to climb viewpoints (optional, though) - which are usually minarets, 
 church towers or other high structures - to get a "bird's eye" view of the landscape. The significance 
 of this maneuver is to reveal key points in the surrounding area such as people you need to save/pickpocket/interrogate, 
 but you can also happen upon them by running around town. Climbing the viewpoints takes a significant 
 amount of time, however, and in each mission there are some 7-11 viewpoints to climb. It unfortunately 
 gets very repetitive, and, given there are nine missions, you climb approximately 80 viewpoints, 
 which you can imagine is tedious.
  
  After descending from the viewpoints you can set out to do the other missions, and let's start 
 with pickpocketing. Typically you'd have to close in on two people conversing and thus revealing 
 what is the message that has to be delivered and to whom and you'd get part of the story. When 
 the conversation is over you have to close in on the subject and attempt pickpocketing, which is 
 usually easy with the exception of one or two. What you pickpocket may or may not be useful depending 
 on how you would like to go about the assassination which I will explain later.
  
  Once you're done, you sometime may have to interrogate someone, almost always one who is preaching 
 something to the masses. You'd hear part of the speech, then, when done, the subject would move 
 into some corner and you'd fist him to submission and you'd get some more info out of him regarding 
 your assassination.
  
  Then you'd have to probably find some informer - a fellow assassin - who would give you some more 
 info on your target if you'd help him assassinate a Templar or guard or, most annoying, collect 
 some hidden flags in a set amount of time. The Templar and guard assassinations are usually fun 
 because you have to do them without causing a stir, which can be more difficult than the main assassination 
 you set out for.
  
  The final way of getting information is by eavesdropping, where you only have to sit on a bench 
 and listen to people talk and you'd be done.
  
  Saving citizens is not crucial to mission, but by saving them you will have the aid of the public 
 when you are followed by guards around the cities.
  
  While all the above may seem interesting in one extent or another, it unfortunately does become 
 repetitive and mundane after a mission or two. I wished there was some variety, or that you didn't 
 have to do all those things in each and every single mission. Perhaps in a mission you had to eavesdrop 
 on some people who actually told a good chunk of the story, maybe then save a citizen who'd help 
 you pass through a critical point and then get the kill over with. This is not the case however.
 
  
  The good part is that you don't have to do everything to finish a mission. In fact, you don't need 
 to climb any viewpoint or save any citizen, but you need to do at least three of the other things 
 (eavesdrop, pickpocket, interrogate, help informer) in order to activate the assassination mission. 
 The bad part is that if you don't climb every viewpoint and save every citizen, you miss out on 
 achievement points.
  
  The assassinations themselves vary but are almost always interesting. There are two ways to go 
 about it, either by direct, out in the open murder or a more silent approach, and each can be done 
 in several ways. The information you pickpocket out of people reveals locations of guards and/or 
 ways to sneak into a stronghold. Going on an assassination as a true assassin makes the game much 
 more interesting - and more difficult - and is the highlight of the mission. Should you choose 
 to go the brute force way or fumble during your stealth approach, you would have to carry out the 
 assassination out in the open and fight a lot of guards.
  
  And you have to do this nine times. The fault in the game isn't really what you do but rather that 
 you do it a lot. The repetition kills the interest.
  
  To carry out all the killing, you have four weapons in your disposal (gradually gaining them) - 
 your fists, the stealth blade, a knife/throwing knife and sword. They are all cool to use and a 
 lot of fun when you fight the guards. To my dismay, the AI is a little bit dumb but does get aggressive. 
 Mastering counterattacks (when you eventually acquire the ability) will prove to be essential. 
 You can also - in a humorous way - climb to the top of structures and let the guards follow you, 
 only to push them down to their deaths again for an easy kill. In general combat is satisfying 
 but the AI should be improved for the sequel.
  
  One of the interesting things about Assassin's Creed is that it has two stories unfolding at the 
 same time. Unfortunately, the other story is revealed much too early in the game in my opinion. 
 If Ubisoft had kept the element of surprise till the third quarter of the game - which is when 
 the second story starts picking speed - it would have been much more interesting and shocking. 
 Fortunately both stories are great and well told, and there are a lot of twists (one is expected) 
 in the final two chapters of the game. 
  
  It is a shame really that the game gets really interesting near the end and abruptly finishes. 
 Remember the Soul Reaver games? Assassin's Creed's ending is much much more abrupt and confusing, 
 which is very sad and upsetting because it literally leaves you standing there, eyes open with 
 lots of questions. However we knew from Ubisoft beforehand that this is the first of the games 
 but they could have made the ending feel less rushed to meet a marketing deadline.
  
  Everything aside, the game is a genuine piece of art. The three cities have been rendered in a 
 most beautiful manner, with a staggering amount of detail in every building and fabric and path 
 and person. Everything in the game has a shadow, the water is pretty, the scale of the cities is 
 amazing, the animation is very smooth as well. I can go on endlessly.
  
  In the sound department, the game does not disappoint - with the exception of Altair's voice. I 
 don't understand why Altair has to sound American. I understand that in the "other story", the 
 American accent is justified, but the American accent did not exist during the Third Crusade and 
 definitely is out of place. The voices of other characters is generally good, and, since I understand 
 Arabic, I have to say that the Arabic is spot on and genuine and my friend and I had a blast with 
 it.
  
  Being an Arab myself - and a citizen of Damascus - I have to say I am quite impressed with the 
 correct rendering of the structures. 
  
  I also have to be sentimental here and say that visiting Jerusalem is one of the most wonderful 
 things and I could literally stay there for hours on end. The cities may not strike a cord with 
 a lot of people, but for me at least, they are significant and especially that I know very well 
 the historical and political turmoil of the region since the Crusades. 
  
  Knowing the history of the land and having experienced it first hand does definitely add a lot 
 to the experience in Assassin's Creed, so it is subjective to who you are and how much you are 
 about the cities and the history and the events that took place.
  
  Before I close the review, I have to point out three technical faults I encountered with the game. 
 First is that at one point the game completely froze. It happened only once, but other reviewers 
 have experienced this issue as well. The second fault is that in Jerusalem, also once, it happened 
 that the game suddenly glitched and the frame rate dropped to unplayable levels for a few minutes 
 before it caught up again. Finally, sometimes the sub-missions mix up and you have to repeat them. 
 For instance, if you were pick pocketing and were caught by guards and then attempted to run for 
 it - then you ran into a citizen in need for help, killing the guards won't free the citizen. Worse 
 yet, on many times, a Templar also followed me and the game didn't register his kill, however when 
 the missions "reinitialize" after a few seconds, killing the same Templar again (with his previous 
 corpse still on the ground) will register the kill. So Ubisoft needs to iron these out for the 
 sequel too.
  
  So with all this in mind, it is difficult on whether or not I would recommend the game. If you're 
 a casual gamer and not interested or have any sentiments to the land and history, then you'd definitely 
 be bored with the game regardless of how much you'd enjoy the graphics, and my review score will 
 be a 7. Otherwise you may find the shortcomings in gameplay forgivable and how the stories unveil 
 at the end, as well as how much you feel for the history and locations, is worth playing the game 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamuiShiro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Need I say more? I've only assassinated 9 targets so far... but from what I've experienced, it's 
 what I expected, and more...
  
  Altair, Mr. Miles... the storyline came to be quite a surprise to me at first. I thought this was 
 going to start off in Jerusalem 1191 A. D. right away. So the intro was very cool. I like the tutorial.
 
  
  But what I really want to say is that Ubisoft put great thought into this game. They pointed out 
 what the shadow like assailants do before going in on their prey. Even putting thought into Altair's 
 secret blade-with his missing finger-there's a storyline deeper than the modern killers we have 
 been watching in movies.
  
  To be honest, I don't know how to write a nice review... yet. But all I can say is if you happen 
 to be reading this...
  
  
  Your going to want to master the art of the kill.
  
  I love this game. It of course has it's very very small criticisms out there in other reviews, 
 I'm sure. But from what I've seen as of late from other assassin like games. This is the best I've 
 experienced by far.
  
  I don't own a 360, I don't own Assassin's Creed. But I luckily had a friend lend me his 360 while 
 he visited his parents... and amazingly, a friend I bought the game for had it already..... coincidence? 
 Hahaha, I think it's fate.
  
  Bet I sound crazy now. I'm going to stop rambling, I have chores to do haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannigancarter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  I wont make a long review about this game, but I will say this. I love the hitman series, and I 
 love Prince of Persia. Ubisoft has managed to smash them both together in some hybrid historic-sci-fi-hitman-climb 
 walls and jump off towers game. Each assassination is so detailed that you have to actually research 
 your target b4 going in for him, getting all the details means the coolest possible way to get 
 them. Graphics are almost REAL, there were times i sat and waited for Altair (the protagonist) 
 to move because i was sure i was still watching a cutscene. There is one of the coolest twists 
 ever in this game, and leaves you DYING for more. The voice acting is perfect, the controls are 
 the most fluent i've seen in a long time. This is a game i will NEVER get rid of. So, again, if 
 you like Hitman, and Prince of Persia, and want to put some crusaders and templars in their place, 
 buy, not rent, Assassin's Creed now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verteku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  this game i mean i have to give it to ubisoft this is one the best games u have ever made. its 
 amazing. i love it. i cant wait for more. i think theres a trilogy coming out. i hope ubisoft makes 
 a trilogy because i would buy all of them. my only flaw is that theres is some glitches but other 
 than that the fps is incredible. it really looks like jerusalem and damascus im not sure acre is 
 real but its really cool. my favorite place is probably jerusalem because it looks so detailed 
 compared to the others . also i have to say that i hope assassins creed gets game of the year. 
 ubisoft will be so proud. getting game of the year would probably make ubisoft so happy that they 
 will make the trilogy. good job ubisoft continue with your outstanding games and make sure your 
 other games are just as detailed as assassins creed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcboy-7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is everything you expected and more. It explains the story of an expert assassin 
 known as Altair who is given a mission to assassinate nine leaders of the Third Crusade who appear 
 to be causing conflict on the Holy Land. Now you might have seen previous gameplay movies on the 
 net with Jade Raymond detailing and describing what's happening around the place, whether your 
 stalking a target or in combat versing five guards or just free running on the roof tops, but the 
 truth is you don't know anything until you have your hands on the controller and you've counter-attacked 
 a guard with your sword by dodging an incoming attack , jamming your sword up the guard's armpit 
 then spinning 360 degrees with your sword to deliver a massive blow to the side of the chest then 
 realizing "Man, that is so totally sweet!" 
  
  This game had so much hype to live up to, from E3 in 2006 and E3 2007, that it was amazing the 
 game looked this good as an end result and it really did live up to the standards it created..
 
  The game itself was truly magnificent. There is no doubt there. The cities had so much detail 
 it was impossible not to notice it. Every nook and cranny, every crack and dint and every splinter 
 and shard. To get three or four cities to look so good is amazing. There were millions of building 
 and they all had their own unique architectural design which is genuinely spectacular. There were 
 so many buildings to do this too that you start to think about the creators and how much time and 
 effort they put into making such awesome details. 
  
  Gameplay over all was satisfying. The free running system was easily the most enjoying feature. 
 It wasn't complicated like holding in buttons and pressing the 'jump' button over again to jump 
 form a building to another... All you needed to do was hold in two buttons and control with the 
 analog stick. You could run on for hours, sprinting on roof tops, jumping from plank to plank of 
 wood, running up walls and last but not least, jumping from high places and landing in a bale of 
 hay. But the missions, where you retrieved information about your assassination target were a let 
 down. The missions were only eavesdrop, pickpocket and interrogation. In addition there were informants 
 who lent you information only if you did their dirty work. These missions were got really repetitive. 
 You'd get another assassination target thus meaning to do some missions. And it would be like "No, 
 not again." These missions were too easy as well. Eavesdrop is when you sit on a bench and listen 
 into a conversation and that's it! Pickpocket is too easy because when the victim is looking at 
 you while walking, you can still pickpocket him. Interrogation is when you beat up some poor guy 
 just talking to some preaching on some leader and you follow him to an isolated place and retrieve 
 info out of him via fistfight and these battles are just too easy. A couple of punches to the face 
 and he breaks down. Imagine doing these missions over and over and over again and you might get 
 the picture. 
  
  The crowds of the cities and the people who walk by and interact with each other as well as you 
 is what next-gen gaming is all about. The people who inhabit these cities are all different. No 
 person is the same as any other; well the face features are different at least. You could be roaming 
 down an alley way and then decide to got to the other side of town and all different people would 
 be there. And the interaction is well achieved. A couple of drunken guys might come over and start 
 pushing you around which really annoy you because they usually blow your cover. A homeless girl 
 might approach you and pester you about money which often results with you throwing her to the 
 ground.
  
  The combat is what practically makes the game. From watching the videos of the net, I only recognized 
 the counter-attacks as the only attack. And if that was the case, this game would get a bit boring 
 and frustrating. But the gameplay of the combat was pretty straightforward. You could be versing 
 five or six guards but only one would attack you at a time making it too easy to ram a sword through 
 all their throats. But the counter-attacks a very helpful. It makes it so much easier. Sure advancing 
 on a scared opponent, stepping on both his legs thus snapping it, then grabbing his neck and breaking 
 it is really cool, but blocking an attack then stabbing a guy twice in the heart with a shortsword 
 wins hands down and it's easier to execute. 
  The puppet system is a quite different but adds a good sense of control for you character. It's 
 handy for the first-time players to show them what button they've pressed or what buttons to press.
 
  
  The sounds of the games were well performed. But many a time I've counter-attacked by slapping 
 a guy in the headand no sound is heard. So that was a bit of an issue because it just simply annoyed 
 when you were expecting a good 'whack' to the face but nothing comes out. Other than that the sound 
 was all good. There was this one counter-attack where you thrust your shortsword on top of the 
 man's head. Then you hear a gruesome 'crack' sound which could only be sword penetrating the skull 
 and then you yank the sword out offloading a gut wrenching 'crunch' from the sword out of the skull. 
 
  Also you have your sword slicing a man with the perfect 'shling' sound that makes it an attack. 
 
  
  The storyline of Assassin's Creed was well thought out and very different to the way you think 
 it might have turned out. So that I don't spoil anyone the BIG surprise, the ending is very confusing 
 and frustrating. It's one of those games where you've played your heart out the whole way through 
 and you're ready to accept the ending. Then when you think things start to get really interesting 
 and things really heat up, the game concludes with a BIG question. The game, I think, could have 
 bit more of an ending instead of a Massive Cliff-Hanger. But hey, it leaves for a Killer sequel 
 which I think promises to be in the running for game of the year. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  One of the most hyped games of 2007 was a disapointment to me but it was still great fun. The crusades 
 are a real cool time for a game to be set in which is why I was so intrigued by AC. The story is 
 very interesting as you progress threwout the game as you find yourself trtying to unlock pieces 
 to a much larger puzzle. But by the end of the game your jaw is on the floor with how strange of 
 an ending you just saw. The Graphics are beautifull and LOTS of details were put into making the 
 cities alive with thousands of people. The combat is fun at first but gets boring fast because 
 all you have to do to kill your enemies is just press X when they swing at you, not much more than 
 that. Assassinating your targets is fun but the quests to obtain permission to kill your targets 
 get old fast. The best thing about AC is the control scheme, you will love jumping around the building 
 roofs threwout the whole game and the climbing is satisfying as well. There are some side quests 
 like save the citizens and find all the flags but once you get done with the main story there isnt 
 much replayability. the thing that would make assassins creed a must buy is if it had more quests 
 that werent so linear and scripted, and more ways to kill your targets rather than bursting in 
 and starting a huge sword fight.
  
  Overall: Good game, good fun. Not worth another play through which isnt worth the 60$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgT_P3pr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Assasins creed is a good game, great graphics and open, emmense cities make you feel like you are 
 actually there. Althought there are a few glithes they are very rare.
  
  Controls are easy to learn and are based around puppets, each button controling a part of the body, 
 as well as low and high profile. low profile is main actions that will not attract attention while 
 high profile will probably attract some.
  
  The stroy is solis but can get a bit boring when all your doing is investigation after investigation, 
 and assinations are a bit to repetitive. the ending os assasins creed is a bit confusing, when 
 all you see is verses from the bible, koran and other holy books written all over the walls in 
 your room, but are saying there is probably going to be a sequel, maybe even a trilogy.
  
  The hired voice actors are great and the music definatly sets teh tone and mood, from classic islamic 
 songs suddenly turn to fast-paced loud music because your have just killed a person.
  
  Assasins creed is a great game, but ubisoft could have done alot more with it, that is why a give 
 it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headshotbuild
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game i thought WOW this is gonna be great...... I have to admit i am a tad 
 dissapointed. The graphics and AI in the game are great as is the combat system and overall feel 
 in the enviroment you are placed in. 
  
  The downside comes in after you progress through the story killing your targets untill you reach 
 a point where you think.... Hmm this feels oddly familiar like ive done this before kind of feeling. 
 The targets are basicly all killed the same just in different locations. What i was expecting instead 
 could be compared to a Hitman series style, where you have more than one way of dealing with your 
 target.
  
  The story is a typical adventure ending do some stuff for your boss and then have him turn on you 
 thinking he is the supreme one and it ends up with you killing him. The only suprising part was 
 leaving a "cliff hanger" for the sequel to this game.
  
  A lack of multiplayer and replay factor in this game contributed to the reason for why this game 
 did not receive a 9.5 or above in my book. A multiplayer game style could somehow be incorperated 
 into this game. How i do not know else i would be sitting in the brilliant studios of Ubisoft.
 
  
  Splinter Cell was made into a multiplayer party somehow so why not this?! But ultimately the lack 
 of a fun replayable story is the low point in the game. Finishing the game the only thing you can 
 do is run around killing people or finding the flags and templars you did not get through out the 
 game.
  
  Overall the game was a brilliantly thought out choice and direction to move towards...... Hopefully 
 Assasins Creed 2 will take these things into consideration and make it a Masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gercain
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Ok Assaassin's Creed is a great idea. Graphically it's georgous. Put to the play test though and 
 it's glaring weaknesses and sloppy mechanics really bring it down.
  First off don't think I'm saying don't play it. It's not a bad game but if you are only buying 
 a few games a year rent this one. The combat in Assassin's Creed seems to be quite fun and evolve 
 as you gain rank. 10 minutes later it's monotonous and clunky. Ocassionally your block button doesn't 
 work against even basic attacks.
  The running/climbing mechanic is were Creed drops the ball. Not beacuse of the control scheme but 
 due to the missed jumps grabs and overall twitchiness of it. At some points you'll hang 12 inches 
 below the top of a roof and not be able to jump up. At others you can jump up and out 4 feet to 
 grab a ledge above and behind you. Letting go and dropping down from a hanging position can be 
 down right frustrating. 
  Am I the only person wondering why this guy can't swim?
  The worst offense is the mindnumbing reptitive missons. After you have completed the first mission 
 you will do EXACTLY the same process eight more times. ZZZZzzzzz
  Assassin's Creed can hopefully become a franchise to watch , but this first installment had better 
 be a warm-up and not it's best. The game is fun for about the first 3 hours then it drags. Also 
 the escape mechanic that includes sitting on a bench in the open and 'blending' with similar clothed 
 people is stupid. Talk about bad AI. I did play through it though and that why I give it a 7.5 
 anf not a 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaorikaori1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  One of the most unique games ever experienced in gameplay. Beautiful enviroment, great character 
 concepts and great play. It was like I was in a movie when playing this game. I Give it a high 
 9! Why? Becuase of everything I just said, great gameplay, great visuals, story line was great, 
 and character interaction worked oh soo well. All I gotta say is buy this game, and reply to me 
 your opinion and if you agree its gonna be a bigg old I told you so lol. I think if you dont have 
 this game yet, you betta ask your mom, for this game for christmas. And if they come out with a 
 part two to this game....... I'll deff buy this game.
  
  When playing each stage you will feel like your the one in the game. When battling it feels like 
 your the one in the action lol. It's like controlling a litle man with a voodoo doll, like i would 
 know lol. I think when you buy it you deff wont regret it at all.
  
  Reveiw by N. E. R. D. Y Stylez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  
  
  The main problem is with the guards A. I., this becomes ever more apparent during combat; Altair 
 can literally be surrounded by more than a dozen guards at any one time. Unfortunately they like 
 to take it in turns trying to attack you and there's usually a large gap between each attack, causing 
 the combat to just look well quite stupid. This makes it incredibly easy to defeat them, because 
 they don't attack erratically together, so this makes it all the more easy for you as Altair to 
 counter their attacks one after the other and finish them each with an impressive instant killing 
 and bloody counter attack. The combat is fairly good; the problem just lies with your enemies not 
 putting up a challenge. After a while of this, I jumped into options to check for a difficulty 
 select to see if there was a more challenging mode present, sadly there is not. The fundamentals 
 overall are present here, and easily the most noticeably impressive thing about the game is in 
 the animation of Altair's movements. These happen so fluently with no cut-offs or moments of clipping 
 between moves  essentially it all looks like one big move with no interruptions in the animation. 
 Say for example, sprinting down an alley way, charging up the wall, jumping from a rail to grab 
 some bricks sticking out on the side of a building, leaping up to a window sill climbing onto a 
 pole on the roof (eagle view) and leaping off in spectacular fashion to land in a barrel of hay. 
 All of that can happen naturally without any noticeable interruptions between movements. That is 
 impressive and life like to the extent I have not seen anything come so close to actual life like 
 movements in any video game before.
  
  Graphics:
  
  
  
  Cut-scenes in video games seem very dormant as of late, whether the reason for that is due to having 
 an essentially 720p video cut-scene which takes up much more space on an Xbox 360 DL DVD game disc, 
 than say, just using the game engine and locking the cameras perspective to the important actions 
 on screen. Perhaps as with our now current generation of consoles, maybe full motion video cutscenes 
 are no longer required, with the days of old on Xbox and PS2 most of the games stories were told 
 within these FMV cut-scenes, though this is likely due to games looking pretty poor back then, 
 at least compared to today's standards. Whatever the reasons may be behind the way the industry 
 has chosen this method, it's one that certainly seems to work in favour of the gamer. I mean you 
 essentially are still playing and can move Altair during these impressive fixed perspective gameplay 
 cut-scenes. There's not a great deal of these moments in the game anyway, however, when you get 
 them it certainly is impressive as if you've been playing games for many years then it kind of 
 feels like you have control, and you still do have limited control over Altair during these moments.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  
  
  The audio overall featured within Assassin's Creed is impressive and could have really been something 
 special. Most of your time is spent running along rooftops and walking among mass amounts of people 
 in large crowds, then although the voice acting is delivered very convincingly for the game's tone 
 and theme, the disappointing thing is that it all gets repeated so much. Seeing as this is where 
 the player will be spending their time for the majority of the game, amongst the crowds and busy 
 market stall areas, it's a shame to hear that things get repeated so much. Surely it couldn't have 
 been much more difficult to give the more vocal of characters multiple lines to say at different 
 times, even more so with your optional mission objectives, such as saving civilians from the guards. 
 While these do actually have a few different lines, it's all often repeated far too much. If you 
 go to each of the districts in the game and save at least two civilians from each one, I would 
 be very surprised if you do not hear the same line again. The beggars are another one too, as it 
 seems they're almost hunting you down, and seem to always have exactly the same thing to say, though 
 thankfully you don't stumble across them quite as often as I had feared. Fortunately Assassin's 
 Creed features a very tense soundtrack, which kicks in at the right moment to ease in moments of 
 tension and goes all out for those rather intense chase moments.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of the best games i've played in a while aside from Halo 3. A wonderful 
 combination of story line, graphics and sound, and most especially, gameplay. Your abilities and 
 tactics you learn throughout the game are so fun to explore with. The large world creates a wide 
 variety of things to do and places to go. With both stealth, and open range combat styles, assassin's 
 creed has it all. I would hands down recommend this to anyone who simply has a 360 at all. The 
 only reason I did not give it a ten was due to some parts of the game seeming repetative, and the 
 anti-climatic ending. It left you hanging which is fine for games with sequals lined up, however 
 in this point in time, it left you wanting a little more, and already waiting for more answers 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightrise
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is set in the medievil times because back then was a violent times of the crusaders. 
 The graphics are beautiful and Ubisoft did an amazing job with the way the game looks and how characters 
 move and react. Assassins Creed is also a violent game and that will grab gamers due to assassinations 
 and sword fighting. The story is pretty good with you trying to take down the leaders of the cities 
 you will be visiting. Sword fighting is entertaining and escaping from guards is fun because it 
 seems realistic. For me the only downside to the game is that it feels slow moving like for example, 
 when your scaling a building it seems like its taking your character a long time to climb. It doesnt 
 feel like a fast, fun game but one where its slow moving so you can enjoy the realistic graphics. 
 This game is still fun game and a good one to get into though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to Assassin's Creed since the beginning of the year because it looked so 
 different than any other game. Once I played it, Assassin's Creed more than lived up to it's anticipation. 
 The game focuses on 2 main aspects, travel and combat. Traveling is probably the most unique gaming 
 experience in a while. Instead of sticking to Ubisoft's Prince of Persia kind of platforming, Assassin's 
 Creed lets you hold down a button and lets you do whatever you can to go in the direction you are 
 going. It makes all of your actions run smoothly and truly gives you a cool feeling when you escape 
 from guards while rooftop racing. The combat is also very different, both good an bad. Good, and 
 I agree with them on this one, is that it feels realistic unlike most sword combat games. Instead 
 of hacking and slashing until their life bar goes away, a single stab or slice can get the job 
 done. It becomes really easy to kill enemies due to counter kills, but they are still very fun 
 to execute. It's easy to defeat a dozen enemies at a time, but it still fun to do so, since I see 
 new killing moves each time I play. The story is great, providing a mind blowing twist in the beginning 
 of the game that I did not see coming at all. The ending could have been better, but it is a cliff-hanger, 
 so if this guarantees a second one, then I'll live with it. The graphics are amazing, soundtrack 
 is great, and this is one of the best and innovative games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondacivicrider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning to the end, its enjoyable and alot of fun. I got stuck not knowing wut to do 
 in the first assassination, but I got help. I got the hang of it eventually and after that it was 
 a breeze. My favorite thing to do is throwing knives at soldiers, I think its quite funny watching 
 them fall off the buildings. Toward the end of the game, it got quite difficult, but I got through 
 it. I think the fight before the main boss was the hardest fight on the whole game, but thats just 
 me. Anyone reading this that dont have this game should go out and buy it, it is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9210
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an awesome action-packed game that has a great story. The graphics for this 
 game are just plain amazing, prolly the best that I've seen yet and the controls for this game 
 are absolutely flawless. But even with all these pros, theres one major con. Repetition. It seems 
 that every time you go into a city you do the same things. Climb to view points, save citizens, 
 pick pocket, kill target and then do it all again in another city. So once you beat this game, 
 chances are you won't want to beat it again. The game isn't all that difficult, but sometimes the 
 guards can overwhelm you. The combat in this game is flawless though. It doesn't get much better 
 than killing guards with a quick counter or combo kill. The story concerning Desmond and the Animus 
 is pretty gripping and it keep you guessing what's going to happen in the end. Overall Assassin's 
 Creed is a great game, but only one time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greekfreak5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Great Game NUff Said it pwn every game hard like omg ownage missiles
  
  
  would be cool if it had a multiplayer but the story is great good graphics great game play worth 
 getting for the holidays. A lot of talking but a lot more action i really liked the game trust 
 me on this one people it pwns hardness like omg rabbits in a barrele Great Game NUff Said it pwn 
 every game hard like omg ownage missiles
  
  
  would be cool if it had a multiplayer but the story is great good graphics great game play worth 
 getting for the holidays. A lot of talking but a lot more action i really liked the game trust 
 me on this one people it pwns hardness like omg rabbits in a barrele Great Game NUff Said it pwn 
 every game hard like omg ownage missiles
  
  
  would be cool if it had a multiplayer but the story is great good graphics great game play worth 
 getting for the holidays. A lot of talking but a lot more action i really liked the game trust 
 me on this one people it pwns hardness like omg rabbits in a barrele Great Game NUff Said it pwn 
 every game hard like omg ownage missiles
  
  
  would be cool if it had a multiplayer but the story is great good graphics great game play worth 
 getting for the holidays. A lot of talking but a lot more action i really liked the game trust 
 me on this one people it pwns hardness like omg rabbits in a barrele 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Since The Da Vinci Code it seems to still be the trendy storyline to involve big scarey religious/secular 
 orders, hidden secrets & confused protagonists. Assassins Creed unashamedly jumps onto this bandwagon 
 having you play as an assassin fighting to uncover & prevent a Templar conspiracy to capture the 
 holy land.
  
  The Story is, by any standard, good. The game takes place in two places. The bulk of it takes place 
 in The Holy Land during the Third Crusade. You play the elite, but rebellious assassin Al-tair 
 who, after his foolhardiness costs the life of a fellow assassin, is assigned the task of assassinating 
 9 Templars to regain his rank & honour. Over the course of this, the depth of the Templar conspiracy 
 becomes increasingly clear, with each assassination revealing a new twist in the unveiling story. 
 Al-tair also comes to terms with his own failings & limitations becoming a better assassin.
  
  In the other part, you are Desmond, a very confused abductee who awakes to find he's been kidnapped 
 by a big corporation for reasons he doesnt understand. His abductors it seems dont want him, but 
 a specific genetic memory of his 12th century ancestor Al-Tair. DNA, you see, contains the collective 
 memories of every ancestor of a person. Using "the Animus," Desmonds captors seek to make him relive 
 these memories so they can find a specific piece of invomation. What that is becomes more aparent 
 over the course of the game.
  
  Personally, I found the scenes in the game when playing as Desmond we're mostly merely annoying 
 distractions from whats happening with Al-Tair. Much of it involved simply reading emails if you 
 wanted to. While alot of interesting infomation about the 3 characters (Desmond, Vicdic the somewhat 
 eccentric/mad scientist & Lucy the Animus controller) & whats happening around them, it was quite 
 easily missable & completely ignorable if you wished. Of course the main focus of the game is on 
 the Al-Tair storyline so this is understandable, but still I found the complete difference both 
 in executuion & aparent importance a shame. 
  
  Well so far all ive focused on is the storyline. But its the story that, for me at least, is the 
 best part of this game. Its compelling, interesting & intelligent. While some will be put off by 
 the whole "oooo big secret order conspiracy" plot, its presented & revealed brilliantly. Its the 
 first game ive played where ive rushed to read about the communities opinions & hypothesise on 
 the meanings of the many symbols, riddles & other things that Assassins Creed has a pleanty. The 
 cliffhanger ending, in paticular, has some fascinating discussion going on.
  
  Of course the story alone doesnt make a game. Graphically Assassins Creed is as beautiful as one 
 would expect from a major Xbox360 title. Gameplay is a mix of stealth & swordplay. This is both 
 a winner & a real sore point of Assassins Creed for me. Having both means that both are implemented 
 quite simplistically. Swordfighting is buttonbashing back n slash while stealth pretty much involves 
 ensuring to hold down the A button when the warning noise starts. When exploring the cities for 
 information about your assassination targets this is pretty unnoticeable. However, when it comes 
 to the assassinations themselves this somewhat dissapoints the assassin aspect of the game for 
 me. More often than not, assassinations will, try as you might, result in you simply charging towards 
 your target, cutting down guards to get to him. As the game progesses this becomes more & more 
 formulaic; you find target, target runs away, you chase target reaching a showdown between you 
 & them + guards. 
  
  While hacking & slashing your way through men is fun & all, it doesnt really feel like being an 
 assassin. Where the mission allows for you to catch your target, stick a blade through his neck, 
 then run away without the need to hack through hoardes of guards, it is at its best. Unfortunately, 
 very few of the main missions will end this way & there is no bonus/penelty asociated with doing 
 the mission a certain way.
  
  The actual exploing part of Assassins Creed is great fun. There are a multitude of extra things 
 to do, from scaling tall towers to "synchronise" yourself with the area, or saving citizens from 
 thugs, all aid you in gathering infomation about your target as well as being fun to do. However, 
 again the simplicity of stealth shows its shortcomings in this area. When guards are alerted to 
 your presence, they attack you. Now, at first being an assassion you'd think it best to run for 
 the rooftops & hide. However, especially as you get more healthpoints, it becomes simpler simply 
 to hack n slash your way through the alerted guards till everyone who saw you is dead. Killing 
 innocent people is penalised, but they dont do anything except run around screaming so them seeing 
 you kill people doesnt really matter. Of course thats no reason not to try running away & hiding, 
 just that you dont need to & dont really get penalised for not doing so.
  
  All this said, I like Assassins Creed. Simplistic the gameplay may be, but its for the mostpart 
 fun. You will get frustrated at the hack n slashing since the locksystem for targeting enemies 
 is pretty slow n crude, meaning sometimes who you hit & if you block an attack comes down to luck. 
 Ultimately, it seems much of the game can be played either as a stealth or hack n slash, for better 
 or for worse. While at times frustrating I enjoyed playing Assassins Creed in its entirety & wholeheartedly 
 reccomend it to anyone. Just be warned that while the story is deep & engrossing, the gameplay 
 is not. Its one of the few games that is made great by its story, & that alone is an achievement 
 in a medium plagued by awfull voice-acting & plots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Finally my wait is over! I got my Assassin's Creed game! I waited so long for the game to come 
 out and it was worth the wait. The graphics are great they are polished and beautiful, the sounds 
 are cool, the fighting is fun and actually challenging most stealth/assassin games have weak combat, 
 but AC can be made for both stealth and combat. The characters of the game look and sound realistic. 
 The story can be confusing at first and makes you say WTF at the ending becaue the ending sucked, 
 but I dont take points away for the endings. AC can also be kind of a do what you want type of 
 game like you can save civilians from guards, find flags (lol) , look for Towers to observe the 
 area, gather info to open new area's to you, kill guards, or just take on the main storyline, the 
 stealth and combat can take some time to get used to, but after a while it grows on you and makes 
 things a lot easier to understand. Ubisoft worked hard to make AC and it gets a 10/10 for its hard 
 work! Good Job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTriviumx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is an amazing game where you are a man who is testing a new technology for a company 
 where you can go into memories of past ancestors. Your ancestor was a skilled assassin back in 
 the middle ages around 1100 A. D. using your skills you live by your own rules, killing as you please 
 with secret hidden knives, sharp blades, and throwing knives. Perform amazing jumps and leaps and 
 an array of counters and combo attacks. As you delve deeper into your ancestors memory you become 
 more in tune with it and become stronger and better as you kill your targets silently and steathly 
 and try to find out the darker side of the middle ages. The gameplay is amazing down to the last 
 detail. Graphics are insane with breath taking likness and dementionality. The story is just right 
 leaving you with some clues and an unfinished puzzle. The only downside is no online multiplayer, 
 which in my opinion would have made this game unbeatable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legather
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Altair lives in the Holy land at the time of King Richard's crusades. He has nothing to do with 
 Japan. So he's not a ninja. But he could be.
  
  Altair is a member of the Assassins, closely modelled on if not actually part of the Hashashin 
 sect. They stalk the Holy Land dispatching targets for their leader Al-Mualim. One such target 
 is not actually a victim but a piece of treasure hidden in Solomon's temple. So it is you find 
 your first mission. Altair, however, is arrogant and cares not for the creed of the sect and so 
 blithely murders an innocent on his way to his target and manages to get his companions maimed 
 and murdered after ham-handedly attempting to assassinate the leader of the Templars, who possess 
 the treasure you seek.
  
  So it is then that Al-Mualim decides that Altair is to be reduced in rank and must prove himself 
 once more. You lose most of your tools of killing and a few abilities. But fear not, you are given 
 missions and targets, the successful dispatch of which will see you rewarded in your master's grace 
 and more abilities and weapons returned to you.
  
  You progress through simple hack and slash sword fighting to short blade combos to counter-kills. 
 Your health is also augmented by completing various optional missions and objectives, in addition 
 to pursuing the main storyline.
  
  The above is very handy, as it turns out. The controls for Assassin's Creed are very intuitive 
 and are only made more so as you progress through the game. Which is all the more irritating when 
 Altair decides to attempt to run up a wall slightly to the right of a ladder, then attempting to 
 do the same but to the left. Often, in order to escape clouds of guards, Altair will need to leap 
 off buildings in order to reach a handy (but cunningly placed) pole or ledge. This will often leave 
 you agape as Altair spectacularly leaps off at a 45 angle and plummets to the ground into another 
 cloud of guards. This happens quite frequently unfortunately.
  
  Another minor detraction, though easily ignorable, is the seemingly un-sneaky Achievement objectives. 
 To engage in a fight with 25 guards at once, to survive a fight of 10 minutes, to murder X many 
 guards. 
  While fun, and occasionally a challenge, these seem to completely leave any semblance of stealth 
 or of being a 'blade in a crowd' behind. Considering this was the reason for Altair's original 
 reprimand, this drags the player away from the theme of the game and it feels rather cheap.
  
  Other than these two criticisms, Assassin's Creed shines. Combat is most enjoyable and quite 
 visceral. You are rewarded for proficiency in combat by the sight of an execution move, be it a 
 noisily slit throat or a simple sword hacked into a foe's neck.
  
  The environments are simply breathtaking. When you first lay your eyes on the Assassin's stronghold 
 and realise that you can actually go up to and see close this beautifully rendered mass of turrets, 
 it is a wonder that is only compounded. Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem all have had amazing work 
 done to bring them to life and when you climb your first tower and take in the vista... then sensationally 
 leap from above into a cart of hay. Simply amazing.
  
  The story has left some people wanting, but you can easily bear in mind that this is the first 
 of a new series. There are mysteries that are hinted at, not all are fully revealed by the climax.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed is a title that misses on perfection by but a narrow margin. It can make you gape 
 for all the right reasons, and occasionally and at precisely the wrong time, all the wrong reasons. 
 Still, this is not a title to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuduReis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The best thing of AC is: certainly the freedom you have for play and finish your recommended murder, 
 pick-pockets, jumps, the scenario and the eaves dropping are perfect...
  I'm shocked about this game...
  the horses and the simplicity are the best point of this game...
 
  the production of the game is perfect... and one thing shows how good this game is: the first place 
 in Xbox rank and the fourth of
  all games...
  Congratulations Ubisoft ... today you are the best!!!
  The game gonna be a sucess so...
  congratulations... 
 and for the ones who don't buy
  this awesome game...
  BUY FAST AS YOU CAN because if you
  don't buy you gonna miss a big game...
  bye bye dudu reis 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game where there are 2 stories happening at once, the past and the present. 
 In the present you play a guy by the name of Desmond, some kind of bartender/assassin and in the 
 past you play Altair a full blown assassin, equip with a sword, hand blade, retractable puncture 
 needle, and throwing knifes. You come to find out that these 2 people are linked together by some 
 kind of memory DNA, so I guess that means they are related somehow. The story is "so, so" some 
 scientist wants some kind of treasure that has been lost for almost a 1000 years and the only way 
 he can find it is through the hidden memories Desmond, but its not the story that makes this game 
 amazing, its everything else.
  
  The animations alone are what makes this game stand out from most others. Every step, every stab, 
 every punch, every slash, every breath you take, every move you make, every bond you break, every 
 step you take, Ill be watching you..... umm, got off on a tangent there. Anyway, the animation is 
 so fluid that you can tell were one ends and the next one begins, and its not just with the fighting 
 either, but for everything. When Altair is climbing a tower or building, he is always reaching, 
 always jumping, never stopping, until he reaches the top.
  
  The sound of the game is great, it comes with a great soundtrack and the sound effects are great 
 as well. Its the voice acting thats lacks something to be desired.
  
  While the graphics are not the greatest in the world, see Gears of War or Crysis, it does capture 
 the feel of 1191. If this game were a movie, it would probably win the Oscar for best costume design 
 and set design. Not to mention that there can be tons of people on the screen at once and not a 
 drop in the frame rate.
  
  I can see where some people might think it gets repetitive after a while. Climb this tower, spot 
 a few missions, eaves drop on this guy, save this girl, help a fellow assassin kill these guards, 
 wash, rinse, repeat. But every mission you do complete only makes killing your main target that 
 much easier. So I dont mind it so much.
  
  All in all, Assassin's creed is a great game. It looks fantastic, it plays great, and there isnt 
 a boring second in the game, and if you are a achievement hog, then this is the game for you considering 
 there is no multilayer aspect of the game. So if you have the patience to climb every tower, kill 
 every templar, and collect every flag, you'll have 1000 out of 1000 points before you know it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSx0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  The graphics are some of the best I've seen on any console or PC. With the exception of CoD4 for 
 the PC it may be one of the most technically advanced games out there. Everything in the game is 
 created with a ridiculous amount of detail without a drop in frame rates. 
  
  The voice acting is solid, although Altair has some lines that don't seem to fit. There are some 
 other negatives, but I'll get to those later. The cities sound like you're watching a movie. There 
 are drunks, crazy people, guards harassing people and everything sounds authentic. 
  
  The controls use a system of intuitive movements. For example if you want Altair to jump from pole 
 to pole, you point where you want to go and hold down the jump button and he'll sail along without 
 the need for hitting the jump button over and over. The same applies to climbing buildings. First 
 off everything you see can be a hand hold. So it's incredibly realistic, but for the controls you 
 just point where you want him to climb and off you go. It works very well once you get the hang 
 of it.
  
  There are many other aspects the game gets right, but these are the ones worth mentioning. 
  
 
  The bad:
  
  The learning curve. I'm no stranger to 3rd person action / adventure games. I've played through 
 the whole Tenchu series, etc. This game took me a good 4 hours to feel like Altair was doing what 
 I wanted. The tutorial system comes too late in the game. The revolutionary style of control takes 
 getting used to, but no form of tutorial is present on movement or even assassinations. Four hours 
 is a long time to feel clumsy with the controls. Granted once I got the feel for them they work 
 very well, but the learning curve was long and not fun.
  
  Repetition. The voice acting may be solid, but there are only a few phrases the townspeople will 
 say after you rescue them. This might not seem that bad, but there are easily 12 people you have 
 to save per map section. So, 3 sections times 12 people (36) times 3 cities equals roughly 108 
 people to rescue and about 4 phrases to switch between. They get repetitive very quickly.
  
  Not just the phrases are repetitive, but the gameplay can be. Climbing the viewpoints is often 
 the same model repeated around the city. Rescuing villagers is almost identical. Sometimes more 
 guards show up, but that's about it. 
  
  Overall:
  
  This is a solid game that does some revolutionary stuff with the controls and is really the first 
 true sandbox game. It will make you feel like an assassin after you figure out the controls. With 
 that said, the repetitive elements of the game should have gone into the Gamespot review. 
  
  The final thought:
  
  The game can be directly compared to rescuing someone in the town. 
 It's repetitive, but visually beautiful, the combat feels real and it's something regardless of 
 the same lines over and over worth doing again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revjjm
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Over the past weeks i have been trying to fugure out the one good thing about Assassins creed, 
 and the only good about it is the art style. The Story falls flat on its face, but dont get me 
 wrong the Past story was intresting, the future part was really a let down. The End was really 
 bad, i felt like i was playing a prequil to a much better story, but if there is a sequal, it would 
 be a rental. Graphics are good in the world of HD, but the future part, the art style is lame and 
 looks like something you see out of a bad 70's future movie. The gameplay is really easy, once 
 you know countering (takes about a minute to master) the game is easy. Ai gets in your way too 
 much, i. e. Beggers and crazy people in the game. The missions a super boring, for you do the samething 
 50 million times and i get bored within the first hour. Voice actiong is good except for the main 
 characture and Kirsten Bell performance is sub par. People need to take a good long look on what 
 makes this game great, and come to terms that anyone could make this game. its a 5 day game rental, 
 but not a buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_dfuse
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  I've had this game on my radar ever since it was announced, together with Mass Effect it was the 
 game I HAD to buy an XBOX360 for. So I did. And then came the game, at first I thought it was delivering 
 all its promises. And it almost did, but I have to agree with most other critics, the game is a 
 bit repetitive. The cities are so beautiful that you'd think you could explore for hours, but the 
 fact is that there is nothing to explore, expect maybe for a ridiculous amount of flags hidden 
 throughout the game, whose only merit is an achievement or two. 
  
  But the repetitiveness started irritating me only after I was well into the second half of the 
 game, and even then, I still thought it was enjoyable enough to complete all side-missions. The 
 fighting system is clever, using well timed button presses you can execute almost ninja like moves, 
 but it doesn't get boring as it would seem, and the challenges keeps rising throughout the game 
 as you keep receiving additional moves after each mission which deepen the combat system even more.
 
  
  I would advice everyone to play this game, just be warned that it might feel a bit too long given 
 what there is to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widemouthedfrog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  Great looking? YES; Good controls? YES; interesting story? YES
  
  Sounds good? YES?
  
  It is..... but.....
  
  The downside.... very repetitive indeed. This was a drawback for me, 
 don't get me wrong, it is a good game but you soon realise that there isnt really much to it beyond 
 its WOW look. The controls are alot easier than you think they are going to be & the combat system 
 holds up well. Too well maybe? After you gain the first few abilities you will win most fights 
 even if the odds are stacked heavily against you.
  
  Sounds like I am having a moan & I suppose I am but it is definitely a game everyone should have 
 a go on. Maybe rent before buying or maybe just rent. I bought it on release day & will be trading 
 it in very soon as once played through there is not a lot to go back for unless you are a big lover 
 of finding all flags etc which could take some time........
  
  All in all a decent game but cant help feel its lacking alot of factors to make it a great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games this holiday season that I didn't read anything about but 
 just knew I was going to enjoy it from the looks, premise and word of mouth things that I did hear 
 during development. While the game didn't turn out completely innovative or outstanding to me as 
 it did for other people, what it did provide is a compelling story, easy to pick up controls, and 
 stunning visuals that were marred by simple and repetitive game play and combat, and a cliffhanger 
 ending.
  
  In gaming there are certain eras that are just overloaded with games (here's looking at you WWII) 
 and others that are just aching for stories to tell. It seems the crusades started to be ripe for 
 the picking recently with a brief incursion in Clive Barker's Jericho and the majority of Assassin's 
 Creed taking place during this setting. This brand new setting was a main draw for me and the story 
 just carries that interest throughout the game.
  
  Now the whole game doesn't take place during the crusades, in fact the crusades portions are simply 
 memories in a modern day man's brain. This little twist on story telling added extra intrigue that 
 kept me glued to the game until the unfortunate cliffhanger ending that left far more questions 
 unanswered. I don't think I'll ever get used to paying $60 for a game only to see a small part 
 of the full story,
  
  The controls and game play seem to be both a blessing and a curse upon Assassin's Creed. The controls 
 are just so intuitive and tight that it often simplifies game play enough to make the game cross 
 over into the too easy side. Being surrounded by a pack of guards that would love to make a pincushion 
 out of you is no real threat because with a few correctly timed button presses, you stand alone 
 on a street littered with bodies. Don't get me wrong, the controls don't make everything too simplistic, 
 the building scaling, and acrobatics make the control scheme seem heaven sent. Simply put, it lets 
 you do some actions effortlessly that would be too difficult in other games.
  
  The graphics in Assassin's Creed are gorgeous. Sure all of the guards and majority of the citizens 
 look the same but other than that, the graphics please in every other way possible. From the bustling 
 market streets to the dusty country side and the beautiful vantage points, the game just has complete 
 cohesiveness. The animations are also done exceptionally well, whether you're running from guards 
 or sword fighting, every single movement is pretty realistic and fluid. While I didn't witness 
 any slowdown or pop up that seems to infest a lot of games these days, there was some questionable 
 collision detection when it came to the combat animations, but these really don't take away from 
 the experience as a whole.
  
  The modern dialogue is attributed to the translation by the Animus so the dialogue is current and 
 easily understandable but that doesn't detract from the quality or the setting at all. The best 
 parts are the conversations between Altair and his victims or the dialogue of Altair's descendant 
 in the current timeframe. The other parts of the aural department keep with this quality, mainly 
 music and sound effects. I really can't complain about a thing in this area.
  
  Now to the negative aspects; I've already mentioned the ease of combat and the cliffhanger ending 
 but the game is also short and repetitive. Clocking in at about 7 hours of game play, you will 
 have experienced far more of Assassin's Creed than you may have wanted due to the same set up of 
 the main assassinations being done over and over again. The only thing I can see to extend the 
 life of the game beyond that is achievements or hunting down the numerous hidden items, but again, 
 those are just for achievements.
  
  You see to get the full story behind one of your targets, you have to eavesdrop, intimidate, pick 
 pocket, climb towers and help citizens often a few times in any given city and repeat these steps 
 each time for the bunch of people you're trying to assassinate. These things are kind of exciting 
 the first five times I did them but after that I just thought they were boring things I had to 
 do just to get to the exciting killing part.
  
  Assassin's Creed turned out to be a very good game to play this holiday season despite a couple 
 of shortcomings, I could see if someone was really hyped up for this game, they could be a bit 
 more disappointed. The bottom line is that the setting and the story was a breath of fresh air 
 and the game play, whether you take it of leave it, is pretty much one of a kind.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  After hearing all the fuss about this game I was very, very tempted to buy it. Until I got a free 
 rental from a video store that I prefer not to mention. At first the game was a little confusing, 
 like I was a lost and not knowing the purpose of the game. 
  Once I started to spend more and more time I started to realize that the game had a similar concept 
 as Spiderman 2 game. Of course, this game has a huge world and the graphics are simple beautiful. 
 I really felt in love of the game. Even though all you need to do is to go around climb a couple 
 of high buildings to get your memory back, you'll understand once you play it, and perform a couple 
 of task, the game is so beautiful an realistic that is like a movie. You simply want to keep playing 
 to see all the different places. It is certainly very repetitive but I didn't mind. 
  You can do realistic movements, climb, fight, kill somebody in front of a multitude with nobody 
 noticing it. It is a great accomplishment. Thanks God I still have another December coupon and 
 a January coupon so I don't think I'm going to need to buy it. I haven't finished it and I don't 
 know how long the game is but I hope my free rentals will be enough to beat it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: true_apollo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is best summed up as an amazing stealth action game, though it's hard to categorize 
 this game in any single genre. The setting is so fresh, and the world is so rich and beautiful 
 that you really feel immersed in the crusades-era story. The combat starts out simple enough as 
 to be immediately accessible, and as you adjust it adds more depth until becomes an intricate and 
 elegant dance of death which stays exciting. The climbing mechanic is superb. Like many elements 
 in the game it is at first easy to understand and learn, and it only improves as the environments 
 you encounter force you to be more creative and tactical in your climbing. The horse-riding is 
 also a very nice touch, and though it doesn't play a huge part in the game it really helps to mix 
 up the city sequences as you gallop through the country side at break-neck speeds with sword drawn 
 towards your next target. 
  
  The only downsides to Assassin's Creed are that the story is a bit convoluted towards the end and 
 the lack of a multiplayer component to keep you coming back after a play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJTurbo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Have you ever desired of a Metal Gear Solid game set in middle ages? Well, i did, since thief was 
 in first person and too much realistic, so i was looking forward to this game, since it had very 
 good premises.
  What the game is, instead is a sort of open version of Prince of Persia, that is a nice game, ok, 
 but is anything but a stealth game.
  The graphics are stunning, i cannot compare them to anything i've seen so far, but you have only 
 3 interiors! It's all outside world.
  The amount of people on screen is great, the moves you can perform are fun and varied, the climbing 
 sequences are well done, and the views you'll enjoy once on the top are awesome.
  Music is well done and atmospheric, sfx are decent, and so i voice acting.
  Now, this is the 
 most REPETITIVE game i've ever played, you'll do the same 3 side missions over and over again, 
 and even the main killings are not that varied either. The story is nice but it does not end, so 
 you'll have to buy the next 1 if you wanna see how it goes on.
  The worst thing is the AI anyway, the soldiers will recognize you as an assassin even if you're 
 just walking around (maybe they have radios, i don't know) , but they are also so dumb that if yoy 
 sit on a bench they will not recognize you anymore.
  One other great loss is, imo, the fact you cannot interact with the world, unless you consider 
 throwing beggars out of your way interaction. You cannot steal money, you cannot buy equipment, 
 you can't do anything but side quests to gain some points that will let you have some of your abilities 
 back (if this doesn't make sense it will once you start the game) .
  
  So, nice game, but it has no variety in gameplay, and absolutely no replay value in the short term 
 (maybe you'll play it again when the sequel comes out to refresh the story) .
  Rent it and save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlisen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  First off I would like to say that Assassin's Creed is the best looking game I have ever played 
 Full Stop.
  It is so absolutely immersive that I wonder how many hours it took detailing the fine pieces of 
 stone that jut from the accurately designed buildings. And the crowds are so lifelike while they 
 yell and chat and sell seemingly useless items, but they're lives feel as though they are really 
 affected when you jump through their stalls or bump them with your exquisite horse.
  The propaganda being spread is amusing too, as it fits with the story of the game and differs throughout 
 the course of it in the three different cities.
  I didn't think this game could pull off the greatness the hype prophesised but it somehow managed 
 it. The missions don't seem too hugely insane and world changing, but you feel as though you're 
 doing something to alter the future for the better. The plot could probably have gone somewhere 
 better, but I'm sure the sequels will see to that. Somehow I thought that the present (or future) 
 day parts of the game were only there to give the game an excuse to have unpassable walls and coming 
 back from the dead, but it didn't interfere hugely with the gameplay. The one thing that did interrupt 
 the gameplay were the cinematics. They were all too long and many of them tedious, the only good 
 one's were when someone had they're body hacked into by swords of enemies, making the eventual 
 assassination all the more sweet. The investigations were also pretty fun, they only got a little 
 tired after pick pocketing a hundred times, but the other ones seemed to stay fresh, especially 
 the informer missions which were like small assassinations. All in all I think that this game comes 
 in the top 5 games of the year, even the top 3, it could be improved, but barely, the controls 
 and graphics were exceptional and I hope it is very similar in the sequels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game i have ever played. and i know that there are great games out there 
 but this is thr best that is available for the X-box 360. everything about it makes sense. some 
 say the ending doesn't. I say what about it doesnt make sense. it is clear as crystal. anyway, 
 the game is fully original with game play and story. it puts you in the role of Altair an assassin 
 in the 1900s set out to kill a number of enemies for one reason which will not be ruined for those 
 who want to play it an not have anything ruined. it brings a whole new way to sword fighting thats 
 hard at first but after a while it gets easy. And the killing moves are just amazing and there 
 is so many so it never gets old. also the weapon selection is just great: a sword, throwing knives, 
 a short blade, and the hidden blade witch will be used most of the time along with the sword. the 
 short blade which you can see in the sheath on his back is a great weapon to use for quick kills 
 during battles, and the moves are just orgasmic. throwing knives are located on the waist and on 
 the shoulder of Altair and are used for getting rid of archers on roofs and its one of two ways 
 of killing enemies silently. which brings me to the final weapon, the hidden blade. which you have 
 seen in almost all of the Assassins Creed videos it is located on Altair's wrist and is used to 
 kill your targets and most other enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitelightnin40
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  What an incredible great game. The gameplay was very straight forward and the story line always 
 keeps you guessing. The story will grab a hold of you and will drag you down into a sense of excitement 
 and sometimes panic. I like the fighting system even though it can be a little touchy. The weapons 
 are fun to use and the access of these weapons is simple and yet ingenious. The fighting system 
 also allows for many styles of fighting like aggressive or defensive. I love the environment and 
 the cities but i feel that the animation of the people seems not on par with the design of the 
 cities. It seems like the designers spent more time on the building design and not enough time 
 on the people. Even though the game leaves you wanting more and all the minor details set aside, 
 this game is a must have for any gamer looking for that next great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eckolocke
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  If the developers had spent as much time with gameplay variety as they did on the graphics and 
 scenery, this game would have been a lot better for me. The fact is that you will be doing the 
 same repetitive things throughout the game. Gather intel, hide, assasinate, rinse and repeat. What 
 is worse is the AI when you are surrounded as they give you a chance to fight them one on one. 
 The game is beautiful with sprawling vistas and bustling cities but the flaws in gameplay make 
 this game less than enthralling. It's one of those games that you beat and dont care to replay. 
 Controlling Altair is unique and once you get the hang of it, works well in the situations you 
 are faced with. I just wish they had implemented more variety to what do in the game instead of 
 gather 3 intel, get past guards, kill mark, run , hide, rinse repeat. The ending just shows that 
 this was a setup for a series instead of being a complete game on its own which may be the reason 
 for the flaws but is not an excuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkMcGuirk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Being one of this holiday season's biggest hyped games, I, as well as most people had high hopes 
 for Assassin's Creed, and even though it's an overall great experience, it lacks that final coat 
 of paint needed to make it truly spectacular. The graphics may be stunning, but the game play, 
 especially after a few hours, becomes almost tedious...
  
  The story also has the potential to be much more than it turned out to be. The supposed "twist" 
 of the game is revealed within the first 20 minutes, and in my opinion, is a total let down. Although 
 the futuristic twist isn't exactly my cup of tea, the story surrounding Altair, The Assassins, 
 and your nine targets does a great job of telling a great story. As you progress through the game, 
 you slowly begin to piece together the puzzle that surrounds the men you are assassinating, and 
 in the end, provides a somewhat open and satisfying ending to Altair's story, but once you go back 
 to your future counterpart, Desmond, the story essentially cops out on itself, leaving you with 
 a bitter taste in your mouth.
  
  My main gripe with the game is it's mission structure. Essentially it's broken into two parts, 
 the first being you must travel to your destination, which is one of the three main cities, Jerusalem, 
 Acre and Damascus. Once you arrive in the city you must report to your local Assassin's bureau 
 and begin to investigate information concerning your target, which for the most part, entails an 
 hour of repetitive and boring pickpocket, eavesdropping and interrogation missions. In order to 
 get to the usually stellar climax of disposing of your target, you're subjugated to an hour of 
 what is an equivalent of watching a Lifetime Channel movie. As for the main targets themselves, 
 the ten or so minutes you spend on the actual killing is very engaging and incredibly fun, but 
 hardly makes up for what brought you to that point. 
  
  The game play mechanics are fairly simply, but most of your attacks are automated, which sometimes 
 robs the joy of swordplay. Even though the game nearly sells it self on rewarding you for being 
 stealthy and cunning, the final act pretty much requires you to remain in combat constantly.
  
  The graphics are simply stunning and beautiful to look at, even if you don't have an HDTV (like 
 myself ) you can still enjoy the game for it's beauty. The expansive cities look gorgeous both 
 on ground level and high into the towers of the cities, the latter providing you with jaw-dropping 
 panoramas. The raw amount of citizens on the screen at once are also a graphical wonder, although 
 some models are a little shabby up close, but leads you to believe you are in a living, breathing 
 city in the end.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is an experience no gamer should miss, even if you play it for a couple 
 of hours or rent it. The story, for the most part, is above par, the graphics are beautiful, but 
 suffers from some minor game play annoyances and boring investigation missions, and at the end 
 of it all, leaves much to be desired for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Yes people we waited. And waited. Through all the postponed times. But it was WORTH the wait. Assassins 
 Creed is the only game in this genre and I loved it. I still play it. The first 20 minutes arean't 
 great but once you get to the free roaming the game is brilliant. The bad thing is I played this 
 game before I had an HD TV and I really didn't like it. But with the 1080p I started to enjoy the 
 surroundings. My tip is only get this game if you have an HD TV. Its not like all the other games 
 like Halo where you don't need one. You actually need it to enjoy the game. The gameplay does get 
 a bit repetitive after about 10 hours. But I still liked it. You gain abilitys as you play through 
 the game and all of them make the game way better. All in all if I didn't have to go in intervals 
 of 5 I would give this game a 9.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I remember when this game was first premiered back at E3 a couple of years back. It was still a 
 Playstation 3 exclusive and was going to be another reason to fork over all those hundreds. After 
 a couple of months of nothing, Ubisoft finally announced that indeed this game wouldn't be exclusive 
 after all; following a handful of demos that mostly bored as oppose to impress. Assassin's creed 
 was finally released with all the hype it so righteously deserved. Unfortunately, the idea was 
 greater than the actual product and this game will be surely debated for years to come; but my 
 two cents are soon to follow. 
  
  Story: Most of the elements in AC aren't bad but at the same time they aren't any good. The biggest 
 kick in the scrotum from Ubisoft and that gorgeous Jade Raymond has to be the storyline. If you 
 haven't played this game here is your *SPOILER ALERT*. Easily the worst storyline to a video game 
 in a long time. I mean what the hell is the reason for having the matrix-like system to the game. 
 First off, super unoriginal and secondly it completely detachs the user in my opinion; it's impossible 
 to feel the effect of Altair assassin life when you know from the start that nothing is really 
 how it seems and essentially the entire game is building up to a massive twist that is completely 
 ineffective because it's so obvious. Honestly though my biggest problem with the storyline is that 
 it is painfully obvious that the developers weren't making a stand alone game from the beginning; 
 so we end up with a half-assed incomplete game that is completely boring and unoriginal. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in AC is pretty boring, there are a variety of mission types which include: 
 saving citizens from hostel guards, finding view points to lift the fog of war, gathering information 
 from informants, eavesdropping, interrogating, pickpocketing and the obvious one assassinating 
 key individuals. There is a total of 4 cities but only three have actual missions; Jerusalem, Acres 
 and Damascus all have the exact same structure and mission type. When playing the first assassination 
 at Damascus you will experience everything this game has to offer. Essentially, every other assassination 
 is just a copy and paste affair, nothing changes except the names of the people being assassinated. 
 Now, repetition is common in video games, so this idea of fundamentally doing the same thing over 
 and over shouldn't be that bad. The problem is that none of these mission types are fun or pose 
 any sort of challenge. The AI is ridiculous; Altair is never in a confrontation with less than 
 3 guards, yet when fighting these odd numbers Altair can easily destroy his foes. Why? The enemies 
 simply stand there and wait for you to attack them. I mean I've never been in a fight against 4 
 other people but I would assume that they would try and gang up on the victim as oppose to sit 
 around and watch their brethren die. The only aspect that isn't annoying or boring is the free-running 
 mechanics. They have videos all over the web of people doing this crap in Europe; which is definitely 
 cool in real life as well as in AC. The problem is there really isn't any incentive to explore 
 each city because other than finding useless flags for achievements, they have no value. Finally, 
 we get to the worst gameplay aspect: combat. First, you press the left trigger and lock on to an 
 enemy. The lock-on system works perfectly fine, the problem is the actual combat. Altair body is 
 broken up into parts; each face button represents a different body part. For example, A represents 
 his legs while X represents his left hand. In combat, Altair pulls his sword out with his left 
 hand which is obviously used to swing the blade. This is fine and dandy until you gain the ability 
 to counter. Before the latter ability, fights are somewhat enjoyable but basically just a button 
 mashing affair. When countering is introduced combat goes from somewhat enjoyable to a chore. All 
 that is needed is for the user to wait until the enemy strikes which in turn is countered with 
 a one hit kill. The first couple of times these kills are pretty cool, but after the millionth 
 time it becomes super annoying and long winded. Now you're probably thinking: "Well, if its boring 
 why do you keep using it!!" The answer to that my curious friend is that countering is the only 
 real effective mechanic in the later stages of the game when the number of opponents doubles to 
 9 - 10 enemies at a time. Even better, in later assassinations enemies counter your attacks; so 
 forget about using basic attacks unless you want to die every ten seconds. Unfortunately, the system 
 is broken and completely boring. The problem is Ubisoft was trying to create a bunch of different 
 mechanics at once and the final product is a bunch of parts that don't really fit together properly. 
 Overall, the gameplay is super repetitive, boring and doesn't really change from beginning to end. 
 
  
  Sound: Actually, the sound effects and music is pretty engaging and is probably the best portion 
 of the game. The voice acting is overall decent, the only performance that isn't up to par with 
 the rest is Altair; unfortunately, the actor is trying way to hard to sound like a badass, which 
 makes him sound overly dramatic and corny. 
  
  features: Features are non-existent, just single player thats it. Compared to games like Bioshock 
 which have an extremely engrossing single player experience that completely makes up for the lack 
 of features. Assassin's Creed doesn't even come close to that level.
  
  Conclusion: Unfortunately, every year there is a game that is overly hyped and people exaggerate 
 its awesomeness. Assassin's Creed is probably in my opinion the biggest disappointment in a long 
 time. I personally though after E3 a couple of years ago this game was basically guaranteed to 
 dominate but as Ubisoft has proven it isn't even close to being a decent game. If you're like me 
 and though this game was going to be decent I suggest you rent it first and see if you can by pass 
 all the crappy mechanics. Personally, this is at best a rental but definitely not worthy 60 bucks!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameheaven
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  The game is made of a great concept. Real world settings, Great characters, Great storyling, Great 
 graphic, Great animations, Great weapons and Great AI. 
  
  So far the game sounds well, Great?? Not for long. The game uses the same simple "elemental" missions 
 constantly. With little or no change. The sheer lack of creativity is outstanding for a game so 
 highly anticipated. The game feels like it was immaculatley formed then, just copy and pasted.
 
  
  The annoying exits into the future do the game no favours. They just slow down a near perfect paced 
 game. 
  
  I dont believe the storyline does the game any favours either, the whole sci-fi element seems to 
 ruin the whole authenticity and feel of the game. Like Jade said, the game was created using acctual 
 historical documentation to determine what the citys were like. Why implement features like that 
 into a game that lacks realisim and character. 
  
  I know to some this review may seem to be a little critical, but when it becomes tedius to play 
 a game. It benifits no-one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinra3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  The storyline for Assassins Creed is amazing. There are actually 2 storylines, which are both intertwining 
 and interesting enough to keep you interested throughout the game. At least I hope your interested 
 because Ubisoft is going to force you to pay attention to the cut scenes anyway to watch for memory 
 glitches if you want to get all of the achievements. 
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Assassins Creed is once again spectacular. The free running system of 
 jumping, and climbing on top of buildings is spectacular. It feels fluid as you run from rooftop 
 to rooftop, climb up towers and whatnot. The fighting system is also very well done, feels easy 
 and smooth, and looks beautiful. 
  
  Assassins Creed has an excellent story, excellent gameplay, and is an excellent idea. Where AC 
 falls short however, is in the execution. When playing through the first level of AC everything 
 is new and fun, but after you\'ve played through 5 or 6 different city districts, doing the exact 
 same thing each time, it starts to become very boring and tedious. The game has you interrogate, 
 eavesdrop, climb buildings, save citizens, pickpocket, and assasinate in little sub-missions in 
 each level. It\'s a cool idea and all, but you\'ll be climbing 5-12 tower viewpoints per level, 
 and saving 5-12 citizens per level as if your batman or something. By the end of the game it feels 
 all too repetitive and puts a major damper on the gameplay. Assassins Creed is an innovate game 
 and an amazing concept, but just falls short to keep things new and fresh throughout the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchrisbobisx
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  assassins creed is indeed one of the most hyped games of the year, because of its popularity i 
 was compelled to go buy a copy. after playing the game for about 20 hours or so, i have a firm 
 impression of all the good and bad in what this game has to offer.
  
  first off the story is some what lame, in a attempt to try to make a real  
 story assassins creed decided to stay away from the stereotypical chosen one, master assassin theme. 
 either way the storyline is somewhat whack as you might have heard by now. the whole science time 
 travel dna + 3rd crusade assassin + the hopes of a big twist at the end= sucky story.
  
  GAMEPLAY was another big issue of mine, this game is repetitive. end of story. you see almost the 
 same places, sure the city layout is different but every NPC almost always looks the same and says 
 the same old thing. as far as combat i personally thought it was unrealistically easy. you want 
 to talk realism? ex: when you gain infamy of being a assassin later in the story how is it realistic 
 that the guards know your a assassin in a white hood, but not know your a assassin who is capable 
 of killing (in my case) 20+guards simotaniously. this annoyance in the gameplay causes you to get 
 really fusterated everytime a guard wants to attack you for stupid reasons like bumping into them. 
 and everytime that happens i always think \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\"you stupid FART HEAD! your gunna get 
 yourself and your 2 friends killed,... see and you wasted 10 seconds of my time again\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\". 
 
  another thing i reaaaaaaally hated in this game was  
 o m g i hated doing those, in the 20 hours i played i spent atleast 18 doing investigations. the 
 last assassination i did took me 3 min to complete, and it took me 6 hours to get 3 of 6 investigations. 
 
  what is a investigation? it is basically when your told to go get background info about the target 
 like where he goes to, and at what time, and what he does when and where. sounds like a cool theory 
 too bad in gameplay it sucks. heres what you get in a investigation, the bureau head guy tells 
 you something like \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\"i would check near the church if i was you\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\" the 
 only problem is, as big as this city is, as new as i am, where the FUUDGE! am i going to know where 
 the church is? its like going to a new city and getting directions from a local person, \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\"where 
 is the church?\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\" \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\'oh its next to the library thats near the pizza 
 place down near the dry cleaner\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\". thats one big problem i had with this game, yes 
 the city is huge and fully exporable, but it gets your lost very very easliy. ANOTHER gripe i have 
 with investigations is that when they tell you to investigate they dont tell you exactly whom and 
 how to do it. you have to look for people. and thats all i can tell you. you have no idea where 
 they are, and you basically roam around the map running through the streets trying to find them. 
 they DO NOT APPEAR ON THE MINI MAP.
  
  as far as the  element of the game, well i personally mastered 
 combat in this game i can easily take 20+ guards at the same time, thanks to all the running and 
 fighting i did when i was doing investigations -_-, i found it easier to just run into the target 
 slay his 30 guards and then kill him too. there are no assassin elements as in having a clean kill, 
 like in the hitman series there is only ONE WAY TO KILL YOUR TARGET, and that is to stab him with 
 your hidden knife, in the end you will be on the run. i really wish it took a page out of hitman, 
 as it gave you options on how to kill your target. poison him, sneak into his bedroom and put a 
 snake in it. strangle him, push him down the stairs, make it look like a accident, etc, assassins 
 creed has none of it. you can either A) kill all the guards kill the target, run like SHEEITE, 
 and B) find a way to climb up the walls and get ontop of your target thus avoiding all the guards, 
 kill target, run like FLUKE!
  
  MAP- the most useless map i have ever seen in a game, the only thing it does is tell you where 
 all the highly repetitive sidequests are located. it does not tell you anything else. though it 
 has a legend and scroll and filter feature to make it look really detailed. its all aesthetics 
 it has no use just tells you if your heading N E S W which it kind of fails at doing too, the STUFFS! 
 sconfusing. and that brings me to the mini map.
  
  MINI MAP of the game i just like a smaller map it has all the problems the big map has, as it does 
 not show where to go to for your main quest.
  
  cinimatics- this game has NO cinimatics, what a cinimatic in assassins creed is, is you hear people 
 talking and you see yourself in \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\"play mode\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\" there are no fancy close 
 ups camera angles or anything, you basically just see the characters standing there talking, and 
 you can have the option of getting different camera modes to look @ them. there are no  
 like the E3 trailers.
  
  summary- all in all this game like i said is not for everyone, i like a game that not really holds 
 your hand, but gives you the option of being told what to do next. this game is basically like 
 3rd crusade GTA without map markers. your expected to know too much too soon. as in the second 
 you get into a city you are expected to know where all the major land marks are located. i personally 
 got so fusterated with the investigations that i have given up on the game just after 3 days. today 
 i spent 6 hours running through the city killing guards and looking for w/e i was suppose to be 
 looking for. ironic no? being told to find  which you 
 have no idea what it is. the repetitiveness is also a issue, you basically do the same thing over 
 and over, get mission, investigate, run like "GASPFWORD!" from guards, return to the  
 get mission, investigate ETC. only thing different is the small cinimatics (if you can even call 
 these cinimatics) are different.
  
  how to make AC2 better? PUT IN MISSION MARKERS PLEAAAAAASE!. that one little thing screwed up this 
 whole game for me, and because of that one little thing other problems piled on top of it.
  
  
  
  Unbiased review, Assassins creed- not for everyone
  
  Also don't blame me for the 
 kiddy swearwords gamespot forced my hand to waste another 15 min correcting them.
  ___ ___ 
  | | | | | / | | | 
  |-+- | | | |-+ + + + 
  | | | | | \ 
  --- --- - - - 
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead_god86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed Seemed like a great idea, had lots of new exciting things to do.
  
  The Combat is great fun, and as you progress it gets more and more exciting as you learn new abilities 
 and gain new weapons to use. However it can be a little difficult. For example when trying to counter-attack 
 someone it can sometimes get rather frustrating when it just doesn't seem to want to counter it, 
 other times is works fine though, seems a bit random, but i don't know, maybe it's just me having 
 a bad day now and then and can't seem to time it right.
  
  Jumping around roof tops and stealth assassinating guards up there is a lot of fun, and climbing 
 to View Points gives you a great view of the area, and looks really nice.
  
  Everything in this game is great (aside from that small issue i have with the combat) except it 
 all gets a little to repetitive as many have been saying. 
  
  In my opinion, it would have been much better as an RPG, with upgradeable gear and weapon's, and 
 perhaps a few more different types of missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nbajam23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were one of the best I have ever seen. they looked so real, and it was so historically 
 accurate. Al-Tair also was realistic. the climbing on rooftops is possible (watch ninja warrior 
 on G4) , and the interaction between Al-Tair and his surroundings was amazingly realistic and accurate.
 
  
  The Storyline was amazingly good, and the ending wasn't all confusing. I guess they left too big 
 of a cliff hanger. It was still an awesome story both within and outside of the animus.
  
  The game did get repetive, though. after the first maybe 4, 5, or 6 assassinations it seemed too 
 much like the same. but it wasn't just investigate and then kill with a blade; only the investigations 
 were repetive. the assassinations changed quite a bit from just hitting the guy with a blade.
 
  
  We all know there is going to be a sequel, if you have beaten the game. I hope the sequel fixes 
 this "repetition" problem. this game is definitely ambitious, and has a lot of potential. even 
 the people who hate this game have to agree to that. I believe this game gets a close 9.5, because 
 the only bad was repetitive investigation, which was minimal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it came out, so this review is a little delayed. I was anticipating this game 
 for a long time and was excited about its release. When I got it home and started to play it I 
 couldn't stop. I played it for a couple hours straight and, unfortunately, the excitement wore 
 off. After about five hours I couldn't really play it anymore. This is due to the fact that the 
 game is just the same thing over and over again. You just run around jumping from building to building 
 and getting into fights with guards. In these fights all you have to do is hit X and a combo of 
 RT and Xas fast as possible. It's a good concept and is fun for a little while, but gets boring 
 quickly. The game is simple and even at the end of the game it is easy. This is another reason 
 why it gets boring quickly.
  The controls are simple and easy to gets used to. The graphics are great. The cities are very detailed 
 and complex. The story is interesting and fun to follow. Its easy to get into and makes you want 
 to beat the game just to find out the ending. There are some small glitches and problems that sometimes 
 make climbing tedious.
  
  Good: Fun concepts, Good graphics, Interesting story
  
  Bad: Gets boring quickly, Easy, Repetitive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoZfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  As you probably have already seen and heard, there are many mixed feelings regarding Assassin's 
 Creed. You, also, probably know that the story involves a sci-fi twist (not really a twist because 
 it is revealed in the beginning) . In my opinion, this "twist" could have worked out for the better 
 if it had not been for less than stellar repetition that causes the game to finish with a, probably 
 expected, cliff-hanger ending. However, the game does have a lot of substance, which I congratulate 
 it for.
  
  Aesthetically, the game looks and runs amazing. Textures and colors are polished to the closest 
 detail. All buildings are incredible looking (this is probably the best you will ever see the Holy 
 Land rendered in the third dimension. Character models are realistic and pleasantly varied (I counted 
 about 10 different costumes for the guards in one city) . Shadows work, everything is just perfect.
 
  
  The music seems a little lacking, however this was probably intentional so you could hear the crowd 
 noise. Voice acting, by the way, is excellent. Characters sound realistic and converse with each 
 other well. I was blown away by how the voice acting matched the animations so well.
  
  Control is sharp. The only thing I would bring it down for were occasional instances when Altair 
 didn't grab when he was supposed to or when he wouldn't react the way I wanted to. Some advice 
 I would give would be to be patient with him because he does control VERY realistically and slow 
 when he should. Climbing was great fun, as you would expect. The combat, for the most part was 
 fairly easy once you learned how to counter. It was kind of annoying when you go through a slew 
 of easy fights only to come to two really hard bosses that make you restart a bunch of times.
 
  
  The story, as I explained at the beginning, could have had a lot of promise. However, what really 
 killed it was the repetition regarding the boring objectives leading up to each assassination. 
 The game sucks about 10 hours out of you, if you are spending time saving citizens etc, then brings 
 you to a cliff-hanger. Maybe they will do better in the sequel, but I can't help feeling that the 
 game would have been better if it was more like an RPG and stuck to what they told us before the 
 game came out.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ansuk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  When i asked my partner to get me an Xbox 360 for Christmas last year it was based purely on having 
 seen the footage of Assassin's Creed. As this year has gone by ive had to play the usual crap games 
 and a couple of good ones but nothing compares to this.
  
  Sure, it goes get a little repetitive but nothing compares to kickin the sh#t out of multiple sword 
 weilding enemys and then climbing 300 feet and seeing the whole city. The graphics are mind bending, 
 ive not seen anything else on the 360 as good as this although there are a couple of hitches every 
 now and then.
  
  There are all the complaints about the ending but it was to be expected when Jade said that it 
 was the start of a story and it has certainly left me wanting more.
  
  Overall its the best game i have played in the last 35 years and the best thing to date on the 
 Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I was never hyped for this title but I was still intrigued to play the game based on the fact it 
 was developed by the PoP team... The most impressive game features are visuals/animations and platforming... I 
 thought the cut-scenes were pretty interesting and definitely unique, kept my interest throughout 
 the game... The AI is pretty good, although stupid at times can be relentless and overbaring, which 
 you would hope when some random citizen screams out Assassin!! ... Climbing roof tops and assassinating 
 guards is fun.... climbing building is a blast. The controls work very well... most of the time. 
 Sometimes the camera angle can cause problems, especially when you're on the run from guards and 
 need to know the area and the camera gets stuck on a corner or you get glitched. The letdown is 
 that there isn't much aside from collecting flags (which isn't as fun as Crackdown) , doing the 
 necessary investigation missions and saving random citizens... at first its interesting but about 
 half-way through it gets really reptitive and may cause some to just not want to finish the game 
 altogether. It's still worth a rental but a buy? I just cannot recommend it when Mass Effect and 
 other titles that are better are avaliable... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Hard to be objective since I'm a great fan of the game, and been waiting for it for little over 
 a year. But here goes the good: Great visuals, control, fun world to play around in.
  the bad: repetitive actions, unimaginative side quests, no quests in the kingdom
  the ugly: he 
 he. Seriously the game is too short for one, you can not skip the conversations not even in replay 
 mode, there are a few glitches since it is not polished and the console it is primarily designed 
 is having the most trouble with game crashing. One thing the controls are great and so logical 
 you get used to them while playing so it's not hard to get rather good in a short time, but since 
 there is no easy, moderate or hard mode eventually you will get unbeatable. The RPG element or 
 level up is also bound to the main storyline and the flower box we were promised is a sand box 
 after all. I gave this game a perfect ten because it has potential to better next gen games, and 
 it's a first in the series so developers could still be learning. You will have great fun playing 
 this once and have fun with it while you do explore everything - but I doubt you will want to play 
 it again soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesommersHP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant. The platforming is different than anything before the game, and the combat 
 is probably the most fluid and exciting combat with swords that i have seen. This all adds up to 
 one amazing experience.
  
  First of all, i will talk about the structure of the game. There are three cities and one small 
 village to explore. Throughout the game, you have to assassinate 9 people, each in a different 
 part of the cities. There is the poor district, middle district, and the rich district. To assassinate 
 someone, you need to gather information in 5 different ways: Eavsdropping, Pickpocket, Interrogation, 
 Collect Flags, and Small Assassinations. Also, there are viewpoints in each part of the game and 
 you can save citizens from guards.
  
  Next is the gameplay. The platforming elements are normally very fluid, and you can grab onto almost 
 any ledge you see. You can hold 'A' whilst running to jump and climb, and there are no restrictions 
 on the platforming front. The combat consists of four weapons: The hidden blade, the sword and 
 short sword, the throwing knives, and the fists. The hidden blade can be used for quiet or loud 
 assassinations, but you cant assassinate someone who is aware of you. The swords are used for most 
 of the combat. You have combo attacks, counter attacks, grabs, dodge, and more moves at your disposal. 
 This is one of the best parts of this game. The throwing knives you throw at a distance, and fists 
 are used for interrogation.
  
  Finally, i come to the story. It is a brilliant mix of two different stories, one which is annoying 
 to the very end. The assassins story is a great story with betrayal mixed with action and treasure. 
 The future storyline is really boring until the end, where a secret is found that tries to tell 
 you something, and it brings a ending where you want to know more. It leaves room for a sequel.
 
  
  This is amazingly good, let down by the fact that it sometimes gets a bit repetitive, but i find 
 that this is always fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Seriously? You put this much effort and hype into a game and this is what you're left with Ubisoft?
 
  
  Either my standards are getting too high with so many games being thrown at me over the years or 
 this game is just rinse, wash, repeat.
  
  To me, this game was boring after the first assisination. You literally do the SAME things over, 
 and over, and over again.
  
  How many people can you save / pick-pocket / ease drop on before you've done it all before. About 
 the only fun thing I enjoyed was finding the high point to climb. That was, until I realized all 
 you had to do to navigate a pendind spire was press A, then up on the thumb stick (with an occational 
 ledge that might require pressing A again) . It's like playing Prince of Persia with a bad hang-over.
 
  
  How about this, a game where you have to walk real, real slow to get anywhere without getting your 
 butt kicked. Not like a sneak game, but a game where you have to tip-tow (with a prayer stance) 
 through crowded streets. It takes you about five hours to get from point A to point B without getting 
 pummeled if you let up off the A button. Sure, you can go over roof tops to avoid the pummeling 
 but what's the point?
  
  This game is pretty weak. We're getting old in our old age if this deserves praise. The graphics 
 are good but it was clearly RUSHED to the shelf.
  
  Did I mention the dumb sci-fi twist to it - do I need to? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ja010764
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -The graphics are great
  -The fighting is very fun (after a little getting use to)
  -Very large maps -Cool executions
 
  -The world feels very alive
  -The boss fights (actual assassinations) are the best
  -The whole "two stories in one" thing, and the ideal of the animus is very cool
  -I enjoyed the 
 templar / new world order ideal addressed at the end
  -Good voice acting (for the most part)
  
  Cons:
  -By far the biggest flaw is how very, very 
 reparative the game is -The fighting IS fun for a while, but it is always the same -Only 7 "mission" 
 types in the whole game, and with about 150 "missions" in the game you will be doing a lot of the 
 same stuff
  -Stupid AI, being a big MGS fan I was hoping for guards closer to that.
  -Miss leading trailer, it shows a crossbow and diving from high buildings to kill. None of that 
 is this game.
  -The whole ideal of blending with the crowd is over rated, this hardly works and is hardly used. 
 This is not a stealth game.
  -The controls for climbing kind of suck, sometimes you can climb right up a wall and other times 
 you aren't lined up just perfectly enough to climb the same wall, irritating.
  -The main charter Altair has the worst voice acting of all time. -The ending all thought very cool, 
 is a total cliffhanger for the sequel
  -Seemed to long (which says something about the game)
  -Some of the achievements are just stupid 
 and no fun with no payoff -No replay value at all In summary this game was pretty good and definitely 
 had its moments, but at times I found myself forcing me to play just so I could beat the game. 
 There are some improvements to be made and I hope they do because then the sequel could be totally 
 kick ass. But I will have to see how it turns out before I buy it. If you have the time to play 
 several hours a day, maybe you better rent this first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed tells the story of an assassin called Altiair who is stripped of his rank after 
 an incident that leaves one of his fellow assassin's dead. The main story is broken into Altiair 
 quest to kill 9 targets. You will work for the brotherhood of Assassins. To gain the chance to 
 kill your targets you must gather info by pickpocketing, earsdropping, and looking for viewpionts. 
 The pickpocketing and earsdropping are done just as they sound, the viewpionts make you scale huge 
 structures, like churches and towers to see around your area and fill in your map. The graphics 
 are amazing, the best i have seen on the 360. The controls are amazing, you will climb structures 
 with easy thanks to the easy control layout. Climbing is also such as sight as you will see Altiair 
 grab ledges, grates on windows and bricks to reach the top of buildings. There is so much to do 
 in the game aside from the main quest. The story is good, its got a nice sci fi feel to it, though 
 the ending takes a lot of thought to understand. Bottom Line: Assassin's Creed is a great game 
 that you will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Hobbit
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  got it the first day it came out, finished it by the second. lol. cant say i was impressed... i 
 want to be, but, no. when you first play it, WOW springs to mind. the controls flow wonderfully 
 and the cities are huge and brill to look at and move through. interaction with the environment 
 and people is perfect. but after your first visits to the main cities it gets very boring and repetitive! 
 didnt anyone else feel that going into a new part of town looked identical to the old part? or 
 the fact that there was yet another person to pick-pocket, or another person to listen to then 
 beat up kinda... blah? and even the combat became anoying more than anything else, it was so simple 
 at the higher levels to kill masses of people without getting killed unlike in the earlier missions. 
 i was seriously killing like 20+ guards just for the hell of it as i could do it and live, some 
 of the guards would run away from me at the end as i had killed so many of them! its just a simple 
 bloack and parry moves that looked cool to begin with, but then made the game too boring when into 
 fights. the only thing that saved it was the assassinations themselves. they varied alot and made 
 you think about your location and environment before making a move on the target. also the issue 
 some people had with the sci-fi twist... i thought it was cool! end of the world here we come. but 
 overall the game was great for the first few hours then grated on you until the bizzar game boss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This November was huge for gamers everywhere. So when it came time to choose, I chose Assassin's 
 Creed. Was it the right choice? Well, it wasn't a bad one, that's for sure.
  
  STORY: The story for Assassin's Creed probably isn't what you'd expect going in. There is a futuristic 
 frame story, that Ubisoft kept under wraps until release. Not only does it add some twists, it 
 makes some gameplay features make more sense.
  
  The story is rather simple and straight forward. Go to this town, kill this guy. Do this 9 times. 
 Get to the end. However, the individual characters you are sent to kill are interesting, and there 
 is some decent backstory around each of them.
  
  Keep in mind this is the first in a trilogy, so prepare for a cliff-hanger.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Assassin's 
 Creed can be thought of as Grand Theft Auto with swords, a Medieval sand-box. When sent to kill 
 a target, you first begin by climbing to the top of tall buildings, and "synching" with high points. 
 This shows points of interest on your map.
  
  From there, you can interrogate, eavesdrop, pickpocket or do other tasks to obtain information 
 about who you are going after. Also, you can save citizens in distress from guards, and they provide 
 you with protection. Besides these tasks, there are tons of collectable flags scattered about.
 
  
  How you go places is up to you in AC. You can climb around and find a back entrance, blend with 
 scholars and walk right in, or start swinging your sword and chopping heads.
  
  The combat is simple, yet satisfying. Sword combat is done with one button for attacks, one for 
 grabbing, and another for blocking. Combos and counter-attacks are all timing base, so the combat 
 takes skill but is intuitive. Besides a sword, you can assassinate people with your hidden blade, 
 or throw daggers at people. Daggers are one hit kills, but you have a limited amount.
  
  Hand-to-Hand combat sometimes takes place too, but it's pretty lame.
  
  So besides combat and 
 going about assassinations in town, there isn't too much else. You can run around on the small 
 world map, killing guards/templars and getting flags. However, most of the game you can just teleport 
 city to city, if you want to avoid this feature.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are very well done in Assassin's Creed. Characters look pretty good, while 
 the environments are often breath-taking. The draw distance in cities is impressive, making most 
 high points worth checking out.
  
  Ubisoft did a fine job of recreating ancient cities, and make them look alive and running. Little 
 touches here and there, from people talking to one another, to random beggars, make the cities 
 feel real.
  
  There are a few framerate hitches here and there, but nothing too bad.
  
  SOUND/MUSIC: The game has music when appropriate: accessing high-points gives rewarding epic music, 
 and combat/chase has some intense scores. Nothing amazing, but it works.
  
  Sound effects are satisfying, and done very well. From gutting a guard to sword clashes, they are 
 all done perfectly. Most of the voice acting is spot-on, and really immerses the gamer. However, 
 strangely enough, Altair is the weakest point. He has no accent, and sounds robotic at time. 
 
  
  OVERALL: Assassin's Creed is a very good title in it's own right. While I don't think it met the 
 hype, it is still worth checking out. Be warned it is rather repetitive, especially in the middle. 
 But if you like the formula, you won't mind it. If Grand Theft Auto with swords sounds interesting, 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlkDante
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most immersive games in years. The high energy game play combined 
 with an incredible combat system. The time if the crusades has been rarely touched by game developers. 
 The grit and violence of this era of history was waiting for an opportunity to be used and Assassin's 
 Creed nails it. You play as the Assassin Altair a disgraced Assassin who has to work his way back 
 up the food chain through a series of 9 different assassinations. The game requires you to gather 
 information on the target either by completing timed flag run, assassinating rival informers, pickpocketing 
 or interrogating individuals and once fof the few repetitive elements. How you complete these Assassinations 
 are up to you. The control unique style makes scaling buildings and jumping from rooftop to rooftop 
 seamless fun and once you get the hang of ti you will make across a city in a mater of moments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icey6ch9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  CAUTION- Spoiler alert Graphics: The textures in this game were amazing and all together beautiful. 
 Although they are not top of line. But there seems to be issues with tearing and pop up. You will 
 notice characters and texture popping up if u are sprinting and even sometimes when you are just 
 running .
  
  Difficulty: This game was definitely difficult for me. The problem was that I don't feel that parts 
 of the game were explained as well as they should have been. A lot of the difficulty I can blame 
 on getting stuck running away after killing a mini boss. By stuck I mean running into crazy people 
 or just my guy not understanding what up means.
  
  Game play: The controls had a fairly big learning cure which I never really understood until the 
 end lol. They never utilized the multiple offensive and defensive techniques. You can basically 
 counter attack your way through the game which I did. The climbing in this game can be great and 
 terribly annoying. When its clutch and you need to get to a roof top to save your ass u can very 
 easily slip up or find your guy with the majority of his body over the top of a roof that he can't 
 seem to get up. Don't get me wrong, I think this new style is great and can be extremely fun but 
 there are a few kinks that need to be ironed out.
  
  Story: This story is horrible. Your character in present day doesn't seem to know if he is an assassin 
 or not. You will go on basically the same mission 9 times in a row. You go to a city, talk to a 
 friendly, get info on your target, go back to your friendly, and kill the target. This is all you 
 will do until the end. At one point I found myself more interested in the bleach present day story, 
 then in the story behind the guy on the cover. I wanted to assassinate the number of guys I was 
 told to so I could see what was going to happen next in present day. The ending was awful. You 
 fight a large number of tough guys about 10 times. There are about 4 fake endings. Whenever you 
 are wondering what is going to happen next, your going to fight a large number of people. The boss 
 fights throughout the whole game are awful. Not only are they identical but there is nothing to 
 them. Your push the guy down and stab him. He tells you why he's not a bad guy and you complain 
 to your master. You do this about 9 times. Then FINALLY, you have killed your master and you finally 
 get to see what is going to happen to your guy in present day. O WAIT, you don't. You don't get 
 anything! They leave the room as they normally do and you are stuck waiting. There is no real outcome. 
 Rating Explanation: I'm going to give this game a 7.5 because the graphic are awesome. With the 
 exception of a few technical problems. The combat system is nothing to new and they don't force 
 you to use anything but attack and counter attack. The story seemed to be thrown together and is 
 very repetitive, which is probably the worst thing about the game. The controls feel new and they 
 can really be enjoyed with the right circumstances. All in all it kept me bust for 2 days, I got 
 frustrated a lot but I'm glad I played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonycometh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Upon the update for the PS3 version of Assassin's Creed, I was able to play the whole game without 
 the freezing only EA and Ubisoft could accomplish.
  
  Assassin's Creed has too many spoilers to get too in to the story. All you have to know is that 
 you have 9 main peeps that you have to knock off from existance. To do this, you must collect information 
 by doing annoyingly small tasks like pickpocketing or listening in on coversations before doing 
 the main deed of actually killing the target.
  
  The main kills are worth the play since they're pretty crazy characters and make you think of how 
 you're going to pull off the kill, my favorite being the paronoid target. How does this game escape 
 the AAA rating from me you ask?
  
  -I want to land my perfect landing.... by myself. I don't need someone to automatically land perfectly 
 in A GAME. I literally relied on the auto jump to target for ALL my chases since I didn't have 
 a choice in the matter. I can understand the climbing... but COME ON! Jumping by yourself is a game 
 freedom that should not be stripped.
  
  It is fairly obvious that AC has been inspired by some giants. Shadow of the Colossus, Spiderman, 
 and Grand Theft Auto.
  
  Add that with too little interesting characters and presentation, and we have an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  From the opening cutscene to the impressive graphics, this game is awesome. I'll start with the 
 gameplay. You can go where ever you want in the game world, which you can climb and navigate using 
 the interesting control scheme. The learning curve is steep compared to most games these days, 
 but after a while, you'd find that controling the character is very good. Fighting is not as fun 
 as climbing buildings, but you don't need to fight that much is you don't want to. While climbing 
 and jumping looks awesome, it requires to skill. You just hold two buttons and point the character 
 in a directing using the left stick, and he does everything else. He won't fall, so you can be 
 as daring as you want. Since the game mostly revloves around 9 assassinations, you need to get 
 info before killing the dude you need to kill. While most reviewers say it gets repetitive, it 
 sorta does, but not really. You can do more than just assassinate people. You can help people from 
 bad guys by killing the bad guys, or you can find flags scattered around the game's world. You 
 mini map helps, but not if you don't know what each simbol is. The cut scenes are cool becuase 
 you can control the chracter as well as the camera, but there are some glichtes in the game too.
 
  
  This is one of the most graphcally impressive games this year. The characters have the most realistic 
 movement ever, and the cities you visit are fun to roam around in. The sound is good becuase the 
 music is great, but one of the problems I faced was that the guards notice you too easily sometimes.
 
  
  Overall, this is a very fun game you play becuase there is just so much to it and becuase it is 
 very polished. It is simply amazing. You've got to play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesxi
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  The real reason i purchased this game is because COD4 was out of stock, but assasins creed is definently 
 worth it. It takes a different approach to the story than many games i've played. For once the 
 story isn't spoon fed to you and you'll have to do a little extra to get more from the story but 
 the other half of the story is handed to you on a silver plater. The story functions in to parts 
 in the present and in the past. You'll play as Desmond Miles a current day assassin who has been 
 taken in to a facility to be tested on. He is tested on a machine called the animus and with this 
 machine he is able to see his anscestors past. His ancsestor just also happens to be an assassin 
 during the third crusade for the Holy Land (Jurusalem) and this crusade was headed by king richard. ANY 
 way, you spend most of the gameplay playing as Altair, your ancestor, and that is where the opening 
 scene takes place. Your mission is to get to a certain point in time where something happens, im 
 not going to spoil the ending or what happens, to do this you must go through earlier memories 
 to reach this one. Most of the memories, or missions, require you to assassinate some one, who 
 could of seen that one coming? JK but you are stripped from your high rank early in the game so 
 this makes it so you have to regain your equipment and rank through these assassonations. you will 
 kill crusaders, merchants, slave traders and rulers. but first you must gain information about 
 your target before you move in for the kill. This part though rather tedious and repetitive must 
 be done. You must find certain areas where you can  and informers. 
 after you gain at least three details about your target the Buero will let you do away with your 
 target . You have weapons to do so, a short blade, sword, throwing knives, fists, and an assassins 
 blade. The assassins blade is typically the main weapon youll use to take down your taregets. Not 
 only is there the main story but there are side missons you can do if you get bored. The overall 
 replay value is high because there are multiple ways you can take down your targets. Overall this 
 game is great but the loading screens are really boring, i dont even now why the let you run around 
 and perform attacks to nothing in the loading screen. But that is one of the few flaws in this 
 game and the sequel should be interesting but the ending is just a little bland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Highly anticipating Assassin's Creed usually worries me these days because highly anticipating 
 anything ends in at least a somewhat disappointment... but this game is one of those few exceptions 
 to the rule.
  
  Assassin's Creed comes flying atop buildings hidden dagger out ready to kill with great gameplay, 
 easy to learn controls, and an in depth storyline. It's true that the story is somewhat predictable, 
 having been worn out by countless movies and other games, but that doesn't waiver how the story 
 unfolds. Climbing and jumping from building to building is much easier than expected, and the animations 
 are smooth and effortless. Assassinations are a bit difficult to pull off, especially from an elevated 
 area, which is always the easiest way to get to a target. Most of the time you end up fighting 
 your target as well as his guards, and you just have to last long enough to get his guard down 
 and then Altair will assassinate him, going to a cut-scene (despite the fact there are still other 
 guards around when the assassination occurs, you have a lengthy conversation anyway) . Other than 
 slightly passive AI when in battle, this game has very little that should be catagorized as flawed. 
 This is a great game to have as a part of a collection as varied as the assassinations seem they 
 could be, and all the extras added to the game to try and accomplish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilguy29
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I really had high hopes for this game when I began playing it a few weeks ago and I was amazed 
 at the beautiful graphics and interactive world, however it's become a nightmare to play. It's 
 become so tedious, confusing and frustrating! The constant wandering around of maze like ancient 
 cities, trying to blend so the guards don't take notice of you while getting harassed by beggars, 
 not my idea of a fun time!!! When you do fight in the game I have to say, it was fun because of 
 the very cool finishing moves you can do on your opponent. The tediousness though of trying to 
 locate the next mission and the difficulty of some of the missions is not worth it. I was just 
 getting more and more frustrated with the whole thing and my enjoyment level sank. If you have 
 a lot patience and don't mind wandering around a lot then you might love this game, but not me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karlos0077
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  The Graphics- The most lasting feature in assassins creed is the graphics, design and presentation. 
 The lighting effects give it the sense of reality, and the realistic towns and interesting civilians 
 only add to the incredibility of Assassin's Creed. No flaw, perfection in this field. =10.
  
  The Gameplay- From scaling buildings like spidey to dueling daggers in a courtyard, both are 
 unique and everlasting. Though not supreme. The combat system works really well and most will feel 
 they are an assassin, but the enemy AI may be a little slow when your fighting numerous enemies 
 at once. They, unfourtunately, wait until each man takes his swing and comes to the ground like 
 a rag-doll. This gets annoying and repetitive but the climbing system may make up for some of the 
 fun lost in the dueling sequences. =9.0
  
  Story- Now, I wont say what is involved in the story. All I can say however is that the compelling 
 twists come at amazing speed they will leave your mouth wide open. Truly revelutionary, it is on 
 par with Halo 3's story if not more epic in terms of allusive drama. The dialogue does not fail 
 to parrellel with the scenes given and will run Altair's blade running down your spine. It may 
 take some elements in the story too seriously but this wont effect anything in the game unless 
 your expecting a more loose experience. =9.5
  
  Music And Score- The music is a supreme masterpiece at its best. I couldn't hear a falter in where 
 a note was missing or where a scene wasn't let down by a classical run of perfection and a sense 
 of divine drama. A Truly spectacular sound and music, no let down here. =10.
  
  Replay Value- Once you finish the game, expect no big awards. If you're an Xbox 360 owner, than 
 you will feel a further sense of achievement than you would on the PS3, but still, here we have 
 all been there and done that. Id you want you can spread terror in the three cities, and kill multiple 
 innocence until the knights kill you for it, but this will fall short very fast. I advise that 
 if this gave gave you goosebumps first time round, than feel no hesitation to finish it a second 
 time. Trust me, collecting flags from rooftops is no thrill of any sort just a wast of time. =8.5
 
  
  Overall- An amazing experience that lived up to all hype, and even if I dare say surpassed expectations. 
 You will be lucky to find another game like this in all the world. A few cracks in the golden pavement 
 to perfection, but these can be ignored with little effort. This game has substance and a rare 
 element of individuality that many games lack nowadays. That's why I strongly advise that this 
 game is a must-buy for all next-gan owners. And if you're not a next-gen owner than get to your 
 nearest game shop and buy an Xbox 360 (I advise) today! =9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  The game takes place around the third crusade kind of. You can tell this by the attention to detail 
 in the storyline which I might add is quit impressive. You play the part of a solider from a group 
 of people called the Assassins. Your mission is to keep order in balance and how might you do this, 
 by killing A LOT! You have a mission to accomplish but you will find a lot of side missions also. 
 There are 3 major cities and they all are vast and 3 main groups of people the Templar knight the 
 Teutonic knights and the Sarasin knights. All of which you will encounter and kill if you want. 
 The game at least the free roaming part plays kind of like Prince of Persia. By that I mean jumping 
 from building to building wall climbing things like that. The fighting is kind of a third person 
 point and attack. You have 3 weapons and all have a different finisher that are all great and happen 
 often. This has the best fighting engine I have never seen for a game of this type. Very easy with 
 some practice and very fun and you get fatalities that can be worked in to a combo. Combos, counters 
 and fatalities I tell you my friends it is the tri fecta of fun. The sneaking and wall climbing 
 make this an Ideal game for the stealthy killer type players. But being the fighting game play 
 is so easy to control and enjoyable I found myself fighting my way in most of the time. In some 
 cases you can run into a fight or charge your way in on a horseYEA! But the camera angles will 
 get on your nerves from time to time in fighting of general movement especially when you're in 
 a rush. Other then that I can't do this game justice in a review my suggestion would be Buy it 
 rent it and then buy it. The graphics are what you would expect form a next gen console (Simply 
 amazing) . The controls are easy, free roaming and fighting. The sounds are great close to people 
 talking is louder then if you were 20 feet away in a busy city. And they really put some thought 
 into the storyline and historically accurate. If I read this in a history book I'm not too sure 
 I wouldn't believe it was real. Truly a must buy for the game itself and there are segments of 
 the story you can replay once you beat the game. Tons of hidden objects and accomplishments you 
 may not have got the first time through. Take aspects of Prince of Persia, Metal gear and Jade 
 Empire and you have this game but not really. All though there are some things that are a pain 
 in the butt at first like the camera. But like with any good game you will get used to it and over 
 come them. I always say no game deserves a 10 so this game gets a 9. But if you round up I have 
 already beat this game but find myself picking up the controller just to go pick a fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnorton34
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was entirely to easy once you get your defensive skills given back to you. Fighting essentially 
 becomes hold r-trigger then press x as he hits your inpenetrable block. This game offered very 
 little in excitement. It seemed like I was doing the exact same thing in every city I went to, 
 oh wait I did. Listen to people talk, beat up some guy that is talking, steal a piece of paper. 
 Nothing really ever changed. Oh by the way climbing to the top of buildings can get old really 
 fast. The camera can be buggy as well at the most unopportune time, like hiding your guy behind 
 an object while people stab you. The scenery is nice but if i wanted to spend money on nice scenery 
 I would go buy a painting. The story is somewhat intresting but the repetitive nature of this game 
 had me losing interest extremely quickly. The A. I. is absolutely horrible. There were plenty of 
 times where I stabbed a guy in the back no more than 15 feet away from another guard, who didn't 
 have his back to me. You would think that would start an all hell breaks loose situation but no. 
 The other fool of a guard turns and moseys on over to check out the guy i just stabbed turning 
 his back to me so that he can be the next victim. I really don't see what all the hype is about. 
 This game wasn't even worth the rental fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zack510
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is a wonderful game to add to your collection. Between the amazing graphics and 
 the very realistic fighting sequence, this is a must play. The game has a action storyline set back 
 way in the day, that will have you playing and playing. There is almost no boundries and almost 
 no limits on wat you can and cannot do. You can climb on almost everything you can see. It is suprising 
 that you can climb everything you could believe accept a tree. It is very unbelieveable that a 
 man who can climb a 20 story building but cannot climb a simple tree. The weapons and fighting 
 styles are great but one could only wish he had a longbow or a crossbow. You have a limited number 
 of knives but that doesnt matter because at any moment you can find a large man and pit pocket 
 some from him. When you are fighting a number of people you are equipped with very cool and grusome 
 counters. At one moment the bad guy is swinging his sword at you and the next you are knocking 
 him to the ground and slicing his throat with a sort of blades to choose from.
  The only thing i have negative to say about this game is that it is a little repetitve in the fact 
 on the missions the game gives you. But all and all this game is amazing in many different ways. 
 Assasins Creed is a wonderful game to add to your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedddy_lee
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  BOTOM LINE: 10/10
  
  CONCEPT: Step into the shoes of Altiar. and be shocked by the way you are put into his shoes.
 
  
  GRAPGHICS: I was amazed by the visuals the minute I booted this thing up.
  
  SOUND: Great original soundtrack that has a great midevil feel. Also some solid FX.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
 Plays great altogether with plenty responsive controls. I specificly like how depending on how 
 you hit hard you press the atack button is how hard you hit. The counter moves are awesome.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: Provides awesome entertainment I spent days on end (ok maybe not) playing this 
 game. The envirements have so much atmosphere and just wandering around a town killing the occasional 
 guard is a pleasure. Also the twists in the game keep you sucked in all game long.
  
  Replay Value: Moderate... ly high
  
  I honestly did not belive this game would live up to its 
 hype other than with its visuals. My friend bought it and I went over to see. I was blown away 
 the minute I started playing. If you dont know to twist in to why you control Altiar and dont want 
 to know yet skip this paragraph.
  SPOILER ALERT!
  Aparently our ancestors memories and kept within our genetics and some scientists need to recover 
 some of altiars memories so they create a genetic memory recoverer thingy and use it to recover 
 it off that whats his face guy of whom I cant remember his name.
  
  In terms of visuals you will be blown away the minute you boot up the game it truly lives up. Graphics 
 arent always the substance in a game but there is that rare game where the graphics add alot to 
 the experience AC is one of them.
  
  I loved the original soundtrack it adds to the atmosphere. You never realy notice soundtracks unless 
 they are exeptionly atmospheric or suck realy bad. But in this case its you damn well notice it 
 and its not a bad thing. SFX are great as well from swords clinking together to one cutting the 
 skin of an enemy its great all the way around.
  
  The games controls are very responsive and other than a few microscoply small glitches but they 
 are few and far spread. I honestly being a minor geek dont know if the system existed or not. but 
 either way its got a great atack and counter-atack mechanic.
  
  The entertainment value is so rediculously high it cant be mesured on a number known to human kind 
 because it exceeds infinity. How ever the replay value can be even through the view points to reach 
 and flag collected and the side assassinations its still not enough to provide great replay value 
 though I did find myself killing a bunch of guards just on a rampage through town making awesome 
 assassinations on guards and that mainly is what provides the replay value. Also the twists in 
 the plots keep you sucked in throughout the span of the game. And even in the beggining after the 
 shock there you immediatly want to know more and a game that keeps you in this long and at the 
 very beggining is rare. Its almost in the cords of your controlers span whithin your temples and 
 force you to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Exemplifying hybrid theory, Ubisoft's own developer in Montreal took apart the exterior of this 
 stealth-influenced game and built upon its core with other unique attributes. Like an original 
 blueprint to anything, the game's forecast still thrusts forward an ideal definition of itself. 
 The result: 6, Ubisoft's latest creation that had been in the works for the past few years. As 
 you'd expect a hybrid-esque anecdote to play out, you'll surface up some pretty awesome facets 
 of the game as the story moves along, and at the same time, you'll enjoy the daunting real-life 
 artificial intelligence that embellishes upon the original blueprint. At times, the gameplay feels 
 a little broken, and the nature of the storyline grows monotonously repetitive, but above the borderline 
 of bad characteristics are great ones that are just too good to be outweighed.
  
  Although the game is pitted in the Holy Land during the period of the Crusades, the story's outline 
 is set in the present. A man named Desmond Miles is abducted by a whacko doctor and his assistant 
 and is forced to access his own memories. Once you enter your own mind, you can assume the role 
 of your ancestor, Altair. Your missions include anything from eavesdropping, pick-pocketing, interrogations, 
 and pure 6. In order to complete a significant 6, you'll need to exhume information about the whereabouts 
 of your target, what he does for a living, and other meaningful stuff that helps you uncover the 
 culprit's background.
  
  You'll get to travel through three distinct locations: Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem, as well as 
 your personal neighborhood of Masyaf. In each city, you interpret your central mission by following 
 the blinking icon labeled on your map. The icon could be any sort of required mission that aids 
 you in your quest to snuffing out the main bad guy. On the other hand, you can also take part in 
 free missions, such as saving citizens from pesky guards, distinguishing your surroundings by utilizing 
 towering view points, or simply free roaming or looking for flags dispersed across the area. As 
 a whole, the missions serve into perspective some state-of-the-art intelligence and great player 
 coordination. Some missions will have you pick-pocketing vital information from thugs, while others 
 may have you physically interrogate a knowledge holder in an empty alleyway. These situations come 
 together very well, but the downgrade is the redundancy and repetition at hand. Nine targets are 
 scattered throughout the game, and you'll do the exact same required missions over and over again. 
 While it doesn't necessarily get boring, it does lack originality and diversity between gameplay.
 
  
  One of the most appreciable aspects of the game is its combat system. While you don't acquire very 
 many abilities or weapons from the beginning, the formula works amazingly in every sense of the 
 word. Locking onto a guard initiates your momentum as you draw your sword, dagger, or throwing 
 knives. The block button serves as a layer amongst numerous other attacks. With the proper timing, 
 you can counter an enemy's attack and implement a savage and fatal blow. You can also commit combo 
 moves, which can be done by repeatedly pressing the attack button. Again, timing issues the entire 
 combat system, whether you're breaking a grab from a guard, blocking oncoming attacks, or impeding 
 blows from behind.
  
  Of course, combat isn't always your only option. You can also flee from fights or from suspicious 
 guards that decide to chase you. The more suspicious your character acts, in such cases as knocking 
 people down, running, climbing atop buildings, or drawing a weapon, the more weary the guards grow 
 on your presence. If they do give chase, your suspicion icon will turn red and you can either fight 
 or run. If you choose to run, you can hide in many different areas, such as hay bails and rooftop 
 gardens. However, you aren't safe to hide unless your suspicion icon subsides to a yellow color, 
 meaning the guards are still following you, but the line of sight has been broken.
  
  As one might guess, everything you do is littered with personal choices, making the entire presentation 
 a truly fantastic experience. The game might play out rather strictly, but the freedom of choice 
 allows you to participate in many things without getting caught. At the same time, the game isn't 
 so light on punishment that lets you get away with anything you want. This diversity really pans 
 out well in the artificial intelligence of the residences. Although a lot of characters' voices 
 sound identical, nearly every person looks different, and they're not all just muscular, fit people. 
 They range in all kinds of shapes, sizes, and origins, and surprisingly, they all commit different 
 actions. Sometimes you'll see a citizen wiping his or her face, or swatting at a bug, or sneezing, 
 or even humming to him or herself. But above all else, the interaction with the citizens really 
 separates 6 from other free roam games. You can actually nudge your way through a crowd of people 
 by softly pushing them aside.
  
  One of the flat-out coolest parts of the design is the ability to perform the leap of faith. You 
 can do this wherever you find a band of birds at the edge of a roof. This indicates that there 
 is a pile of hay you can safely land in upon jumping off the structure. These leaps are very graceful, 
 but also very breath-taking, especially the really, really high ones. They never get old, and they 
 are always fun to use when trying to escape from large groups of guards.
  
  Aside from a few complaints, such as the repetitiveness of missions and occasional control instabilities, 
 6 is one of the best games of 2007. It transcends the conventional stealth formula with sharp gameplay 
 facets, solid controls, and breath-taking graphics. In addition, as the story slowly unravels, 
 you'll find yourself taking the time to pay attention and gather in the essentials. It's not a 
 drama of a story, and it doesn't contain the best gameplay or voice acting, but there's no reason 
 why 6 shouldn't be on your list of games to check out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tillekaratne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  I'd been looking forward to this game for ages. When I got it out of the box to play it, I was 
 introduced to the modern-time element of the game. This was a real shock, because there was no 
 hint of this in any of the pre-release trailers/videos. You are 'plugged in' to a machine that 
 decodes memories in your DNA from your ancestors.
  
  This was like being punched in the stomach. I was looking forward to a medieval RPG where you can 
 explore real cities and play a part in history. It seems to be way too Americanised . Generally, 
 they're not considered to be a well-educated bunch and are commonly seen to be ill-informed about 
 any history other than theirs. So they also gave the main character an American accent. It's also 
 disappointing that it doesn't just let you see the modern-time clip at the start then let you get 
 on with the game. You keep going back out of your ancestor's memories and have to spend ages in 
 'the future' watching boring and pointless cut-scenes you can't skip.
  
  The rest of the game isn't without its flaws, either. Assassinations follow a simple pattern that 
 you end up following over and over again. For example, to get into one of the three cities you: 
 'save a citizen' from some soldiers, then 'blend' in with the scholars who will walk you right 
 past the guards at the gates. Dialogue is VERY repetitive. All the time you hear You dare steal 
 in my presence!? and You have done me a kindness, young man. It gets very annoying. And so do the 
 cut scenes where you end up talking to your grand-master.
  
  However, the gameplay is fantastic. I won't go into too much detail, because there are already 
 loads of reviews you can look at that tell you about the game's good features.
  
  But, over all, they could have ruined a potentially great game. Though the gameplay does pull the 
 rating back up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dacapoplayer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best 360 games ive played, you get set missions which are easy but awesome. 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! Jeffrey! 
 Jeffrey! v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukePenfold
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game looks amazing the graphics are brilliant they are very detailed the environments look 
 really good and real and they all have an atmosphere the sound is brilliant very good environment 
 sounds and good voice acting gameplay this is where I don't like this game its doing the same over 
 and over again which is disappointing seen as it has really good features 
  
  Overall this isn't that great simply because of the gameplay is the same but if it had better gameplay 
 its well worth getting also it has no online play so it wont keep you busy for long and you probably 
 wont want to play though it again as it gets boring 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpeno_0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  
  Let me start off by saying that Assassin's Creed is one of those games that must be played. It 
 tells a unique story, has fantastic game play, and has some of the most breathtaking graphics (technical 
 and artistic) that will give any next-gen game a run for it's money. 
  
  Assassin's Creed actually takes place in the present time and involves the player reliving the 
 memories of Altair Ibn La-Ahad, a master assassin living during the 12th century. I'll not reveal 
 any spoilers, but I will say that he way the game jumps back and forth from present time and the 
 12th century is very believable and blends together very well to tell an interesting story. 
  
  The player will spend most of his or her time playing as Altair, an extremely nimble and acrobatic 
 assassin. Altair can climb almost anything. Anything sticking out more than two inches on a building 
 or structure can be used to grab or used as a foothold. Climbing a building takes only moments, 
 and due to intuitive controls, is a breeze. Climbing tall structures can lead to a often times 
 massive view of the surrounding area, and is simply beautiful to behold. This is where the graphics 
 really shine. There is a surprisingly large draw distance allowing the player to see every detail 
 of the cities. 
  Even when at the highest of altitudes, people can still be seen walking the streets below. Oddly 
 enough, Altair can't swim.
  
  The controls in AC takes a little getting used to, but after spending a little time with them, 
 they'll feel completely natural. The face buttons act like parts of Altair's body, A for feet, 
 Y for head, X for weapon hand, and B for free hand. Pressing and holding the right trigger will 
 change the functions of these buttons to actions that will make you easier to get noticed by guards. 
 So basically, Altair is in a low profile state by default and all his actions will be socially 
 acceptable, but by pressing the right trigger he will enter into a high profile state which allows 
 him to perform more noticable actions, like shoving citizens or scaling buildings. The left trigger 
 is used to lock onto a target to perform various actions on them, mostly assassinate or enter combat. 
 More on this later. 
  
  There are five different locations in AC. The assassin's headquarters in masyaf, three major cities; 
 Jerusalem,, Acre, and Damascus, and the kingdom, which is the countryside connecting all of these 
 areas together. You'll spend most of your time in each of the three cities, interacting with it's 
 citizens and assassinating your targets. Each city is made up of three districts, and each district 
 houses one of your nine main assassination targets. You are not permitted access to a district 
 until you have received permission to assassinate the target living in that particular district. 
 Each city has it's own distinct look and feel to it. Acre has more of a medieval setting with it's 
 cobble stone streets and huge castles, while Damascus is more of a desert city, looking like something 
 you'd see in Aladdin or Prince of Persia. 
  
  The game has a very structured feel to it. You'll enter a city, climb a view point (really tall 
 building) , visit the assassin's bureau, investigate your target, return to assassin's bureau for 
 permission to kill your target, assassinate target, return to assassin's headquarters for your 
 reward and next target. And occasionally, you'll return to the present day to further the plot. 
 All of this sound like a lot, but in reality it only takes about 20 to 30 minutes to complete an 
 assassination. What you'll actually spend more time doing is all of the different side missions. 
 I found this a little odd that a game about playing as a master assassin involves saving more people 
 than actually assassinating them. As you travel through the cities you'll find the streets littered 
 with people being harassed by guards, all of which need your help. You can choose to ignore them, 
 but helping them does make avoiding the guards a lot easier. Depending on the citizen you just 
 saved you'll either have made allies with a small group of priests which you can use to blend in 
 with, making for a movable hiding spot. Or you'll either get a small group of vigilantes, which 
 will distract the guards for Altair as he makes his escape. There are around twelve different cases 
 of citizens being harrassed in each district of each city. Do the math and you'll see that you 
 can easily spend hours upon hours saving these poor people. Also, within each district there are 
 about the same amount of view points to climb as there are citizens to save. On top of that there 
 hundreds of flags scattered in every area of the game, as well as 60 different hidden templars 
 to be found and killed. All of this makes for a lot of time spent on things other than assassinating 
 your targets. Saving a citizen only takes a few minuites of fighting with the guards, but the fact 
 that there are so many citizens to be saved, it becomes very repetitive. And the fact that saving 
 citizens and scaling view points are the most effective way to raise Altair's health bar, it almost 
 feels like you have to partake in these side quests if you want to survive any of the larger battles 
 later in the game. All in all, the side quests do give the player a break from the main mission, 
 but they also at times feel repetitive and tacked on to make the game last longer.
  
  The combat in AC feels like an evolved version of Prince of Persia, but with more emphasis on timing 
 and defense. I really enjoyed the combat, it had a very realistic flow to it. You actually had 
 to time each attack and not just jam on the attack button to defeat an opponent. As you progress 
 through the game you'll gain access to more advanced combat moves, such as the ability to dodge, 
 counter attack, counter grapple, and break an opponent's defense. Be warned though, that as you 
 gain these moves so do your enemies, and they will use them alot. This makes for very adrenaline 
 fueled combat scenarios. Your attacks will be parried, your counter attacks will be countered, 
 enemies will catch you holding block for too long and unleash a guard breaking attack, leaving 
 you vulnerable. Combat can take place anywhere. The guards really do a good job of keeping up with 
 Altair no matter how nimble and quick he is. As you jump across rooftops you can look to the streets 
 below and see the guards following your every move looking for a place that they can climb up to 
 reach you. It's really quite fun to start trouble just to get into a fight with the guards and 
 then try to get away from them. There are only two ways to get rid of guards chasing you. The first 
 of which is to kill all of the guards in the area and the second is to simply hide and wait for 
 them to forget about you. Hiding is as simple as finding something to hide in and walking up to 
 it. A bail of hay, a rooftop garden, or a small group of priests will all work, and it only takes 
 seconds for the guards to give up their chase when Altair is hidden. 
  
  One of the most impressive aspects of this game is the animations. There are literally hundreds 
 of them. Every swing of Altair's sword is different than the one before. The instant kill counter 
 attacks are thrilling to behold and full
  of animation. Even the smallest of animations that occur when Altair scales a building, the way 
 his hands clasp anything within reach, or the way his body shifts and moves as he climbs, to put 
 it plainly, it just looks real. Altair even has more walking animations than you could count on 
 one hand. It all comes together to make one of the most animated video games to date. It really 
 makes you notice how many other games lack this type of variety in their animations. 
  
  The sound in AC is really well done, the sounds of swords clanging together, a thrown knife zipping 
 through the air, a street vendor conversing with his customer about a potential sale, a town cryer 
 speaking ill about someone. Everything sounds as if it should. There is little music, but what's 
 there is very good. Especially the haunting vocals on the track that plays while exploring the 
 kingdom. The voice acting is very good and all spoken dialogue is delivered believably. There's 
 really nothing bad to say about the sound, other than the fact that Altair speaks completely plain 
 english without any hint of an accent. I found this a little odd, due to the fact that every other 
 person has some sort of accent accompanied with their english. There is perhaps a reason for this, 
 but I will not mention it due to spoilers. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is an unbelievable and unique gaming experience. There's a ton of stuff to do 
 beyond just assassinating people, with enough to do to keep you playing even after the credits 
 roll. If given a more variety of things to do, this game could have achieved perfection. But as 
 it stands Assassin's Creed is an outstanding game that deserves to be played. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is what some would refer as, "having the hype machine work overtime"
  
  Upon loading it up, I had expectations of this game. However, 1 minute into it everything was crushed 
 as I learnt of the games "interesting" narrative style. Such a style has been seen in literature 
 many times.
  
  The main character you play, is an assassin. But wait, your ACTUALLY playing as someone from the 
 future (the year 2012 I believe offhand) who is hooked to a machine that allows him to re-live 
 his 12th Century assassin ancestor's life. Sound good maybe? I wasn't impressed.
  
  Aside from the structure, we see the assassin re-live the Crusades, killing off key players who 
 historically had a part in causing them. Of course they weren't killed by an assassin, but in this 
 game they in fact were. 
  
  That's pretty much the bulk of the game. Now, the gameplay I have to say, is good. The combat is 
 a little bit boring, since you only have to hit one button, and you can only engage most enemies 
 with your sword. The way the asssassin leaps and jumps and runs is fun, and this aspect of the 
 game handles smoothly. 
  
  The graphics are nice to look at, but playing it on my non-widescreen non-HD T. V, everything looks 
 rough around the edges. I would hope this isn't the case in HD, but sadly, I believe it would be. 
 
  
  The game quickly becomes repetitive. By the time you go to kill your 2nd target, you'll know the 
 drill, which is to collect information about your target in exactly the same way as the previous 
 target, you plan an attack and you go to kill the target, and then repeat x's another 7. The missions 
 to collect information are boring, they include, evesdropping, pickpocketing someone, doing a dull 
 task like collect flags or kill one or two guards in exchange for information and so on. The first 
 time you do these, it's fun new and exciting, but sadly quickly becomes boring and dull and old.
 
  
  All of the above make up the bulk of the game, story and gameplay wise. The best feature of this 
 game I have seen, is in attacking someone and having guards chase you, I'd hope that a game about 
 a 12th Century assassin would warrant more fun than that.
  
  Although it is quite boring, you can get it done in a day, that's if you don't waste time "collecting" 
 all the flags one can find within different areas of the game. I suggest you save your money and 
 simply rent it out for the night, it shouldn't take more than that to finish the games main quest. 
 I'm sorely disappointed in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REflexHalo3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  If you like swordplay and stealth, this is definetely the game for you, Ubisoft has combined a 
 huge, seemingly endless expanse of explorable area and RPG like gameplay to make one of the highest 
 rated and possibly the greatest game of the year.
  
  The game itself has a strange backstory and a huge amount of achievements, the story is set in 
 1191, during the Third Crusade. The main character of the story is the feared assassin Altair who 
 is given the task of eliminating nine men on both sides of the crusades (the Templars and the Saracens) . 
 You play as Desmond Miles who's ancestor was coincidentally Altair. Desmond Miles is kidnapped 
 and hooked up to the Animus which lets you view and control your ancestors memories.
  
  The intense gameplay and the outstanding visual design of this game truly suck you into this world 
 of assassins and crusaders and Saracens.
  
  Also, the people of the game world are completely unique. while playing you will simply want to 
 look at everything of the game world and take it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindclown2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is an action adventure (read again: not stealth) game that takes place during the 
 Third Crusade. You play as a white-cloaked medieval spider-man, Altair (All-Tee-Air) . Early on 
 in the game you screw up an important mission for your master and he strips you of your rank and 
 a lot of you abilities, but sets you on a new course to assassinate 9 people in the cities of Acre, 
 Jerusalem, and Damascus.
  You start off in the guild's headquarters, and a run down through a small village leads you to 
 a horse where you then ride off to the Kingdom, where then you have to ride to one of the three 
 cities. Now, you don't get to tackle all 9 at once. Some missions you'll only be tasked against 
 one, sometimes two, and certain times 3. And riding through the Kingdom can get a bit tedious, 
 so thankfully after a certain point of the game you can "fast travel" from the city to your master 
 at the guild headquarters, and then back to a city. 
  One of the game's main gimmicks is the ability to Free Run. By holding down the right trigger and 
 A, you character runs and whenever he approaches the edge of a roof, he will automatically jump. 
 So you never have to worry about timing a jump just right with a button press, all you have to 
 do is steer him in the right direction and make sure you don't choose a distance that ends up being 
 too far. 
  Like I said, Altair is like the medieval Spider-Man, in that he can scale buildings and towers 
 to great heights. If it looks like you can grab onto it and climb it, you probably can. And some 
 of the views from high up can be quite breathtaking thanks to a great graphics engine.
  But you just can't go to town and go straight for your main target. Instead, you have to see the 
 local guild headquarters in each city, and then go off searching for investigations. You find investigations 
 and side quests by climbing to high View Points, and then at the top, you press Y and Altair will 
 look and listen for things to do.
  Unfortunately, these investigations is where the game kind of falters a little bit, in that, there's 
 not a lot of variety. You'll have pick pocketing, where you follow close behind a target and hold 
 down B and hope that the person doesn't turn around and see you sticking your hand down their pocket.
 
  There's Interrogations, where you follow a target until they get into a secluded area and beat 
 them up with your fists to make them talk and give up info.
  Then there are the Informers, who offer two variations. Either you'll go on a flag hunting timed 
 race, which to me didn't make much sense and didn't fit into the overall game. But they also offer 
 mini-assassination quests. They'll give you a target or a set of targets and you have to silently 
 assassinate them without getting noticed by the guards. 
  There's also a bit of a side quest to follow. Often times you'll find citizens in the need of a 
 hero, and so you can attack the group troubling them and if you take them out, the citizen will 
 either reward you with a group of scholars, which allow you to cloak and will often times get you 
 past guards into a area you need to reach. Or they will give you vigilantes, which, if being chased 
 by guards, you can run to the vigilantes and they will hold the guards up for you, which allows 
 you to make an escape. 
  Of course, it's also good to go to every View Point on the map. Not only does it reveal more missions, 
 but for every 15 side quests (view points and saving citizens) completed, your health will get 
 augmented by another bar. So it really pays off to complete them.
  To me, where the game really shines is in it's combat. This game has got some of the most brutal 
 moves I've ever seen in a video game. But don't read that as body exploding gore. By performing 
 counter attacks with one of your weapons, most of the time Altair will perform a finishing move, 
 such as stabbing them through the stomach, stabbing your foe in the face and then punching them 
 to the ground, stabbing them in the foot and then upper cutting their face with the short blade. 
 There are all kinds of nice and very well animated moves that never got old in the slightest by 
 the end of the game.
  Your weapons include a sword, a short blade, your hidden assassins blade, and throwing knives. 
 With the sword and the short blade, your able to hold down the right trigger in a fight to block, 
 unless they did a special strong attack that breaks your block, and with the assassins blade you 
 can't block enemy attacks, but if you get your counterattacking down right, you will always kill 
 them.
  And counterattacking is pretty much how I fought every fight. You simply hold down the right trigger 
 to go in the blocking stance, and then when your enemy begins their attack animations, you tap 
 X to counterattack. Most of the time you'll get a gruesome finishing move, but other times Altair 
 will just knock them to the ground. Unless using the Assassins blade, in which case Altair will 
 always kill them in a counterattack.
  The main targets themselves are pretty easy, which most of the time you end up in big group fights, 
 where it's you verses a dozen guards. I never really had much trouble getting to and defeating 
 the 9 targets, and if I did, it was just because so many guards overwhelmed me. So don't go in 
 expecting big extravagant boss battles. 
  And the last part of the game is pretty much fight after fight. It's like running a gauntlet, where 
 you have to take down one group of guards after another, until finally you reach the end boss, 
 who really didn't pose much a challenge himself. 
  Another complaint, which you may have heard of by now, is how stupid the enemy A. I. is. Apparently 
 guards back then weren't too smart and didn't know how to use their eyes. You see, when running 
 from guards and you break their point of view, you have several different ways you can hide from 
 the guards until they give up their search.
  One way is to hide right in the middle of a group of white-cloaked scholars. But you would think 
 the guards would see the guy in the middle with the sword on his back and by his side and maybe, 
 just maybe realize that he's not a regular scholar. 
  Another way is, while running across rooftops, you will come across these large boxes that have 
 curtains on each side. Altair will jump in the curtain-cloaked box, but again, you would think 
 the guards would have enough sense to look in probably the most obvious of all places.
  And maybe the dumbest of all, you can sit down on a bench between two people and you will somehow 
 be magically "hidden" from the guards. Those guards must be saying to themselves, "Hey, see that 
 guy sitting on the bench there? He totally looks like the guy we were just chasing." And then the 
 other guard must have went, "But the guy we were just chasing was standing and moving fast. That 
 guy there is sitting down and totally still. Couldn't possibly be him." 
  You can also hide in large piles of hay, which is all find and dandy. But again, one might think 
 that the guards would go kicking and throwing some of the hay out of place just to make sure no 
 one is hiding in it. 
  Depending on your personal point of view, the ending will either be good or bad. It ends on a cliffhanger, 
 defiantly setting up for a sequel. I can just say that I hope we don't have to wait 2 to 3 years 
 for the sequel to come out. If we're lucky, by this time next year we'll have part 2 in our bloody 
 hidden bladed hands.
  The sound work is great too, with excellent voice acting. The sound of blades clashing and clanging 
 all sound realistic, citizens on the streets respond to your actions when attacking guards or climbing 
 buildings. The music was good, but nothing all that great and you probably won't pay much attention 
 to it.
  All in all, Assassins Creed is a great game with great graphics and really fun, if sometimes tedious, 
 fighting. The ability to climb almost any wall and run from guards jumping and leaping from rooftop 
 to rooftop is always a thrill. But every gem will have its scratches, and for this game I'd have 
 to say it's the repetitive nature of the missions and the stupidity of the guards. You're basically 
 doing the same thing over and over again until the last part of the game. The story will keep you 
 interested all the way through though.
  
  On a scale from 1 to 10, with 1 being the most god-awful piece of software to ever disgrace God's 
 green earth, and 10 being just as fun as kicking cute wittle bunnies in the face.
  
  Graphics  9.5
  Sound  9
  Story  8
  Gameplay  9
  Replayability - 7
  
  Overall score 
  9
  (not an average, batman)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaJesus232
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Like many other gamers, I've been waiting with bated breath ever since Assassin's Creed was first 
 announced. I've been hoping that someone would design a game like this since the first time I played 
 Thief. That being said, it should be obvious that when I put the disc in and started up the game, 
 my expectations were pretty darn high... and after about fifteen minutes, Assassin's Creed had exceeded 
 them. By an order of magnitude. I've put over ten hours into it at this point, and if anything, 
 it has only gotten better as I played.
  
  
  It should come as no surprise to anyone who has seen the trailers and gameplay footage that this 
 game looks amazing. From the character detail and the map design to the perfect physics (and I 
 do mean perfect) , Assassin's Creed will leave you gaping in awe time and time again. I've been 
 playing it on my 720p projector, currently running a 114" screen, and the first time I walked down 
 the path to the city of Damascus I almost dropped my controller. The entire city is rendered in 
 incredible detail, and from the higher vantage points in the city you can see the citizens walking 
 around below, going about their daily business.
  
  
  While certain aspects of the controls will take a bit of getting used to (expect to fall a few 
 times while learning to climb buildings and jump from roof to roof) overall the controls are smooth, 
 easy, and responsive. I've had very few of those frustrating moments so common in free-movement 
 action games where the character just won't seem to do what you tell him or her to. In addition, 
 sneaking around on rooftops and blending with crowds are a great deal of fun. An icon in the upper 
 left hand corner of the screen informs you of guard alertness level, ranging from "no guards can 
 see you" to "die, infidel" (And yes, some guards will actually yell this at you. I cracked up the 
 first time I heard it) . If you do get spotted in the commission of a less-than-lawful act, which 
 you certainly will from time to time, the escape mechanism is remarkably similar to Need For Speed: 
 Most Wanted. Run away and duck around corners/climb onto rooftops to break the enemies' line of 
 sight, and then hide in designated safe spots until they stop looking for you. I was skeptical 
 at first, but it works beautifully and is a lot of fun, even when you accidentally misgauge a jump 
 and land in front of a second group of guards, causing them to join the chase. As for combat, I'll 
 get into that in a separate section in just a bit.
  
  
  The major assassination quests all function the same way, but there are definitely enough differences 
 in specifics to keep it interesting. In each case, you will travel around the city searching for 
 information on your target, which comes in the form of eavesdropping on conversations, pickpocketing 
 notes from citizens, completing tasks for friendly informants, and sometimes, of course, beating 
 it out of some unlucky, loudmouthed NPC. Once you have enough information, you have a choice of 
 either proceeding with the assassination then, or continuing to gather more information in order 
 to gain both more clues as to the best way to approach the target, and the closest thing the game 
 has to XP. Once you are done exploring and investigating, you go to the local Rafik (Head of the 
 local Assassin's Bureau) and he approves your plan. You then use the information you've obtained 
 to assassinate the target, whether by throwing knives from a ledge overhead, walking up to them 
 inconspicuously in a crowd and stabbing them in the back, or simply running up to them and hitting 
 them with your sword until they're dead. Personally, I prefer a little more finesse, as it makes 
 things more fun and gives me a little thrill of accomplishment when everything goes according to 
 plan.
  
  
  In a game as immersive and detailed as this one, sound is crucial to creating an atmosphere that 
 is as realistic as possible. Thankfully, the Assassin's Creed team clearly recognized this. As 
 you make your way through the streets of the three major cities, the background noise of people 
 walking and talking is quite believable. One of my favorite parts of this game is that NPCs will 
 actually react verbally to you climbing around on walls and jumping over vendor stalls, with such 
 phrases as "He's going to hurt himself, and I'm not going to help him!" The voice acting is quite 
 good as well, although the side quest characters tend to have the same few speeches recycled over 
 and over until you become somewhat sick of them. That's pretty much unavoidable with a game like 
 this, though, and it's at worst a minor annoyance.
  
  
  Besides the level of graphical detail, combat is the most impressive aspect of Assassin's Creed. 
 You will quickly discover that few things in the game are more exhilarating than being surrounded 
 by anywhere between three and twenty hostile soldiers, and systematically waste them one by one. 
 At its core, the combat is simple: there is a fast strike, a strong strike, and a defensive parrying 
 stance. As your character develops, however, you gain several new combat abilities, and unlike 
 many other games, there's actually incentive to use almost all of them. Getting the counter-attack 
 ability, for instance, drastically improves your chances surviving large mobs, as well as being 
 ridiculously cool-looking.
  
  
  First of all, I should state that the main questline is extremely well written and will without 
 a doubt drag you in and keep you guessing exactly what is going on behind the scenes. However, 
 the designers put in some aspects that I frankly don't much care for. I can't go into specifics 
 without ruining the surprise, but so far it seems an unnecessary distraction from the main game, 
 and can be annoying when you just want to get back to your role as Altair, Professional Badass. 
 It doesn't take up all that much of your time, however, and since I haven't finished the game yet 
 it is entirely possible that it will be tied in more fully later in the story, and then I'll feel 
 like a jackass for critiquing it. But oh well. For those of you wondering what the hell I am talking 
 about, don't worry, it will be clear pretty much the instant you start playing.
  
  
  This game is without a doubt one of the best I've ever played, both in terms of how well it's designed 
 and in how much sheer fun it is to play. I spent the first hour or so of free play just running 
 around looking at various parts of Damascus, knocking people over, jumping around on rooftops, 
 and generally getting myself into trouble. It's definitely a keeper, folks. If you don't enjoy 
 this game, I strongly recommend consulting your doctor immediately 
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game i ever played. Graphics and sounds make this game more exciting to play. 
 The story line is amazing, but the ending is really really confusing. You'll know what iam saying 
 if you get this game. Assassin's Creed gives you freedom, just like grand theft auto series. It's 
 very fun to just kill guards and run. But everything that u do in this game gets kinda old, but 
 you'll come back to the game in matter of minutes. It's a shame that there's no online. Ubisoft 
 might wanted to put this game out first, and if people liked it, they would try to make it online. 
 Well overall, this game is amazing!!!! i would recommend this game for you. But if you are still 
 not satisfied with my comment, rent this game and play it for about 3~4 days, you'll love it.
 
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  Story- 8/10
  
  Controls- 9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uripo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  When I put the game on my 360, and watched the first loading I tought, this is strange. But after 
 seeing some scenes in a strange lab, things started to get more clear. But when the guy enters 
 the animus is so exiting. Well, after you pass some boring tutorials, that gifts you with an achievement, 
 youenter in Maysaf, the center of the history of the game. Well, to avoid spoilers I will stop 
 now. The graphics are killers, the shadows are nitid and reacts when you pass trough it. The gameplay 
 is revolutionary, when you pass people in the streets Altair pushes them or try to evade them. 
 The unique reason I don't give a 10 is the difficulty, I don't have trouble to pass trought any 
 moment at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x
  
  Amazing, Amazing, Amazing!
  
  The Game is huge and massive, and the Story is brilliant.
  The game play is a little repetitive 
 but it ends on a good note so Assassin's Creed 2 will fit in well!
  
  Xmas Wish List, Must Buy!
  
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a joy to play. The game not only plays well but you feel cool playing it.
  
  The graphics and sound are out of this world and the story line grabs you from the start.
  
 
  Some people have complained about how easy it is to fight and jump around in this game. I would 
 have to disagree on these points because what you do get is a game control system that allows you 
 to enjoy the game and not frustrate you in the process.
  
  The only negative I can aim at this game is the lack of variety in the information collection stages 
 of the game. The assassinations themselves though are great fun.
  
  In short, if you like great games with a great story then buy this game. You will not be sorry.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Before Assassin's creed our only way of fulfilling that craving for blood was to jump in the ever 
 changing shoes of Number 47. All though the Hitman franchise is a great series it did lack in some 
 areas and left you wanting just a bit more. Assassin's Creed takes the formula a bit further and 
 delivers an amazing experience all around, though the sort of gameplay it boasts still may not 
 be for everyone.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a fine mixture of stealth, platforming, and action, all mixed into a sandbox 
 world which resembles the all to familiar Grand Theft Auto Style. Don't let this scare you, it 
 is a free roaming world but it is nothing like GTA. Think of an enormous sprawling world made up 
 of multiple citys and to get to your goals you are free to either blend in with the crowds or take 
 to the rooftops for a more speedy travel. The most impressive aspect of the environments is how 
 real they seem. You actually feel as if you are in a bustling Jerusalem (only one of the many cities) 
 in the middle of the crusades. Beggars get in your face to convince you to spare some gold. Merchants 
 are tempting you with their goods. Guards patrol the streets and pick on weaklings when they are 
 board. It all feels so real.
  
  The story line is a little different than you might think. You actually play a descendant of the 
 main character Altar; Desmond, and you are actually in the present/near future. Desmond apparently 
 was an assassin at one time but is now being held captive and forced to use a device called the 
 Adimus. The Adimus is a machine that allows the user to look into his or her ancestor's memories 
 which are recorded in his or her own dna. So in other words, Desmond is being forced to look into 
 the past to find something (he does not know what however) that his captors are looking for. This 
 gives the game a historical and techno thriller feel right out of a Michael Crichton Novel.
  
  While you are looking into the past and playing out Altar's adventure you are actually "puppetering" 
 him. Instead of simply looking into the past you are reliving it the way you want to. The trick 
 is, however, that you must stay in sync with the original memories. Stray to far away and it simply 
 ends in death. Now at first glance this seems like an annoyance and a put off but it is not what 
 it seems. Instead of being confined to one way of doing things like it suggests, this is simply 
 a means of, or excuse for, a health bar. Yes, that is simply what it is. Apparently Altar didn't 
 die the way you might have him to so it simply says unsynchronized and sends you back a few steps 
 to your last checkpoint.
  
  The action is of a slower pace half the time then heart pounding the other half. Of course being 
 an Assassin means keeping a low profile and it makes your job much easier but the times where you 
 have to go toe to toe with a half dozen guards is some the most exciting sword play ever. The combat 
 system is simple but has a learning curve that makes it quite challenging to master. All of it 
 is based around timed button presses and when you are successful, let's say with a counter attack, 
 you are rewarded with some of the sweetest death by blade scenes ever conceived in a video game, 
 or anything for that matter. 
  
  Silent kills can be just as heart stopping if that is your thing. Some people don't enjoy the stealth 
 scene but for those that do this is one of the greatest, rated up their with Metal Gear and Splinter 
 Cell. Now when these two games are based around shadows and staying out of sight, and Hitman is 
 based around disguises, Assassins is based around profile. You are faced with killing your enemies 
 in broad daylight by mixing in with the crowd and blending well with them. It is all to much fun 
 to approach a smack talking guard and pretend as if you are merely bumping into him, only to slide 
 your hidden dagger between his ribs and into his lung, then slip nonchalantly back into the crowd. 
 
  
  The Ai can be a little quirky or unrealistic for some people but they serve their purpose and put 
 on a good show while doing it. The side missions can be repetitive at times which all consist of 
 pickpocketing, interrogating, eavesdropping, saving citizens from evil guards, climbing towers 
 to reveal more of the map, etc. but they are still fun because it does not take much time to complete 
 them, making it a slow but face paced game all at the same time.
  
  If you enjoy a unique story telling experience, great swordplay, and a new and exciting sort of 
 stealth play, then this is the game for you. Altar is bound to be a character staple to go down 
 in the books and you should experience his adventure or be assassinated along with the rest of 
 the poor souls that don't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIack3r
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  When the game was first shown at E3 in 2004 I couldn't help but think it was going to be one of 
 the break through games for the 360. Unfortunately after a full night on it I couldn't help but 
 get bored halfway through. It is playable and has some fun moments but it is to repetitive and 
 often leaves you wanting more. The games graphics and physic engine are of an excellent quality 
 and the graphics are superb, so much in fact that I would put my house on it being one of the best 
 looking games of the year. But for all this potential the game play is indeed 10 steps backwards. 
 The fact that you can almost climb anything did make a good impression on me though, and combined 
 with the awesome graphics, getting those view points is very satisfying. But overall, once you 
 have completed this game you won't want to replay it. In fact when you have reached 100% completion 
 you will probably want to trade it in or put it in under your bed for eternity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ken1311
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Exelllllll llllllllll lllllllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllllll l l lll ll llllllllllll llllll 
 lllll ll llll lll llll l lll llllllll llllllll ll ll l lll lllllllll lll llllllll lllll lllllll 
 l lllll llllle nt Grap hh h h hhh hhhhh hhhhhhhh hhhh h hhh h hh hhh hhh hhh hh hhhh hhhh hh hhhh 
 hhhhhh hhh h hh h hhh hhh hhic s an d Gam e yyyyyyyy y yy y yyyyy yyy yyyy yyy y yyy y y XX X XXXX 
 X X XX XXX XXXX XXXX XXXXXX X XXX XXXXXXX X X 3 6000000 000 0000 0 000 0000 00 0 00000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Assassin's Creed was presented three years ago at E3, the game looked intriguing in 
 its' originality and setting. You play as Altair, an ancestor of a present being, who works under 
 the Assassin's Guild. After a distraught battle, you are sent to assassinate nine important leaders, 
 so victory comes quickly. If you play through the game quickly, gamers will miss basically all 
 the game has to offer; being stunning visuals and small animations that just proves a games focus. 
 The focus on geographical and historical facts is amazing to me, as many buildings in the game 
 have come from pictures of the Period of the Crusades. After exploring the game, you will notice 
 how light and tacked on combat feels. This begins to vanish once you learn new combo moves, such 
 as the counter attack, guard block, throw reversal, and the ability to throw knives. But once you 
 play three hours or so more, you will bored with what Assassin's Creed offers and feel obligated 
 to finish the story. Assassin's Creed's potential is so substantial that the game will leave gamers 
 wishing for more and hopefully the sequel in the trilogy will present itself with more difficulties 
 and a better combat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm not quite done this game yet, i am on memory block 6. First I want to say the game looks great, 
 good usage of the next gem system. But the graphics are not groundbreaking or anything lke that, 
 i think oblivion might beat it that department. The music and sound is all right, what gets is 
 how extremely repetive the game gets. Eventually i couldn't even complete amission without whole 
 tons of guards chasing you and harassing you for no reason. No matter how many you kill they just 
 keep coming, How about a change of clothes Alteir? anything. How about a friend to work with? This 
 is the xbox 360 isn't it? 
  
  Also what bugs me is no matter what you do the conservation are unskippable and just drag on endlessly. 
 The man is a trained assassin how can toy sit there talkly endlessly. JESUS IM BEGGING YOU SHUT 
 IT FOR ONCE. Say something interesting, every cutscene is just ZZZ. The missions are also repetive, 
 every city you enter, its the exact same drilll,. climb up interrogate someone and pickpocket someone 
 , and you dont even have to search the whole city there is no reward for any of it. And the flags? 
 Really ridiculous each city have dozens of them you gotta find and not only are they super hard 
 to find, you will have endless throngs of guards hunting you for no reason. Most all the characters 
 and guards look the same and sound the same. They never say anything different.
  
  It's a game that had alot of potential but sitll needed alot of work I hope fallout 3 comes with 
 the right idea, and is not as disappionting as this game was to me. It just didnt get me as being 
 to much fun , the animus is annyoing and even the controls bug me alot. The tfight trainer? Real 
 annoying too, never shuts it. It has little to no replay value either, once your through the frustrating 
 game why go back? All in all its not to bad, it generally had a good idea and the graphics are 
 almost flawless. I gave it very hard not because its tough but because its frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FIRE_PIRATE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Good: the graphics of assasins creed are amazing, the cities are enormous, and the AI of the people 
 is pretty good. But the best thing about assasing creed is running through the cities and climbing 
 over the buildings. Literally everything can be climbed on! scaling the towers and viewpoints in 
 the city, thed diving back down to earth never gets old. the fighting is more realistic than most 
 games, and the slo-motion counter attacks are always fun to watch. Overall assasins creed is clawing 
 on the door to the next generation of video games. 
  
  Bad: the storyline is fairly short (with only 9 main missons) . also the missons get repetative 
 after a while and the excitement of killing a majr target gets old. the guards become alert a little 
 too easily and it gets annoying when you are constantly searching for a hiding spot. the drunk 
 civilians that randomly push you around are annoying. All the flags hiden in the cities would take 
 over 100 hours to collect all of them. But these are minor setbacks. Overall Assasins creed is 
 a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyOsprey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I know Assassins' Creed hasnt had scores all in the 9's in all magazines and websites, and I honestly 
 dont know why. In my opinion, its awesome, a fantastic technical achievement.
  
  As an avid gamer, I just had to get Asassins' Creed as soon as I possibly could, and am I glad 
 that I did.
  
  The graphics are probably amongst the best seen on this generation of consoles. The AI of the other 
 characters in the game is superb -the way they react to your actions and to the actions of each 
 other. The environment is truly interactive beyond anything seen in any other title I have played.
 
  
  I have read criticisms of the story line for being too convoluted, and yes I agree its not the 
 easiest to get to grips with, but its by far not the worst storyline either. -some games dont even 
 have one!
  
  The control scheme is fluid, sensible and easy to get to grips with. There is plenty to do and 
 the game itself while not challenging to hardened gamers, is rewarding and un-put downable.
  
  Combat is slick and enjoyable, story missions are interesting and fun to play, and there's 
 plenty of side-missions to keep everyones' interest levels up.
  
  I Cannot wait for the next game in the series, it will be on my shelf as soon as possible. Assassins' 
 Creed is one of the best titles on Xbox 360, in my opinion just behind Oblivion and Bioshock.
 
  
  If you're a fan of this genere, get it now. If not, get it and you'll be rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sly_fiz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is absolutely everything you have been waiting for and more. Ubisoft Montreal 
 brings us this out-of-nowhere game that is sure to leave an impression on anyone who invests 60 
 bucks into this rare gem. From Prince of Persia toassassinating peasants and killing guards on 
 the streetSure, I guess that's what you would expect, but the way the game pulls it off is more 
 than words can describe. 
  Not divulging any secrets, the game starts you off inwelllet's just say I did not think I picked 
 up the right game. You are suddenly taken to a training-type level that starts you off kickingor 
 at least you think. The plot carries on smoothly throughout the game and there is never a dull 
 moment. You can carry on the main quest, but what is the most fun part is trying to get everything 
 completed in the game. Sometimes, just jumping from building to building killing everything in 
 your path is a blast too (although you may have to suffer the consequences for it) . From the moment 
 you press start to the moment you get your last achievement for the game, you will be grinning 
 ear to ear.
  The graphics are flawless. Nothing acts strange or feels weird, because everything you see... well, 
 you can go to it and climb it! Looking around at architecture and people in the game and seeing 
 it in all its shining, shaded-pixel beauty almost brings a tear to any gamer's eye. This is a 360 
 game, so what did you expect as far as graphics, but the scenes are so lush and beautiful (in an 
 assassin-y way of course) , that you will feel like you can stick you hand through the screen and 
 get stabbed by Altair's hidden blade yourself.
  The crowd reactions are where this game really shines. Everything you do, and I mean everything 
 you do, someone sees it and will react accordingly. You bump in to someone, they might grunt back. 
 You shove someone, they might shove back. You kill someonewell; let's just say it will not go 
 unnoticed. Even jumping from building to building, you can hear people yelling "He's going to get 
 hurt up there!" which adds a little cherry to the top of this beautiful Assassin's Creed Sundae.
 
  All bad analogies aside, the game is brilliant. The repetitiveness may get to you sooner than 
 you'd like, but if you can look past that you can truly see all that this game has to offer. The 
 graphics, physics, and crowd reaction all blend ever-so smoothly for a game that you don't want 
 to miss. Don't be expecting this game to be in the Bargain Bin anytime soon. 9.5 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief1019
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game brought by the creators of Prince of Persia Series, and its clearly 
 the best game that Ubisoft has created in this aspect.
  
  The story of Assassin's Creed is really deep and very good. You'll play as Desmond who is a bartender 
 that has a dark past, he is kidnapped by a group of scientist, they created a machine called Anymus, 
 what this machine do is bring back the memories of an ancestor or the person itself. 
  
  Desmond ancestor is an Altair, an Altair is related with an assassin that killed 9 important leaders 
 that were ruling in the crusades. You'll play as this assassin and you will have to kill this 9 
 important leaders. As the story goes by you'll learn a lot of things about the people that kidnapped 
 you and as your ancestor you'll also learn what do the 9 leaders have in common.
  The only bad thing of the game is it ending, it is really confusing and it let you with a cliffhanger 
 ending for a sequel.
  
  The gameplay is not that amazing but really effective, the combat system is just a simple button 
 smashing but when you do a counter attack it will look like a cinematic showing you the bloody 
 attack of the Altair. Also you can do a stealth attack with your hidden knife and it is also really 
 nice.
  
  The graphics are top-notch, the 3 cities are huge and every one of them has a very good look, the 
 citizens are also very detailed. Also climbing on a building or into a high tower to see the incredible 
 view is really fun.
  
  The sound is really good too, every dialogue is terrific and the sound effects of the weapons are 
 really good.
  
  As a conclusion, Assassin's Creed is really a beautiful game and its definitely a must buy.
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed did get me away from FPS for a while. Although I have to say the game has a great 
 concept it does fall short of a game that could of been better. 
  
  The game play is pretty good for the most part but after a few hours you will be wanting to put 
 the controller down due to its repetitive game play. You first start off in as a "lost" person 
 in a lab where they are conducting a experiment with your dna it seems. You will then find out 
 they are looking into you DNA which comes from an ancestor back during the third crusade. I believe 
 that was put in the game to lower its rating due to the fact you are an assasin and you are doing 
 some bloody and brutal killing during the entire game. I think that whole part where you are in 
 the future could have been thrown out. 
  
  The side missions are worthless in my opinion and the game was really simple to beat even for a 
 novice. I like the way the developers made the look of the city's, they are huge and it kinda brings 
 the city to life with the people inside of them. You can tell during the first quarter of the game 
 you will fight your master of the creed. Though he is easy to beat him just like the rest of the 
 game. 
  
  The sword fights get so repetitive that I just ran past guards on the third mission. There's alot 
 of glitches in the game as well. There's alot of things that obstruct the camera angle as well 
 when it goes close up in a sword fight. Not only that but the moves you have are limited and there's 
 not enough to do because you would have done them all after you first kill a dozen of the guards. 
 Though for some reason I didn't get that crossbow in the game (mabye its something I had to unlock 
 on the missions with the other assasins) that is showed in the beginning of the trailer I was kinda 
 disappointed. 
  
  If there was a little more to do in Assassin's it would have been a great game I believe but like 
 I said it just drew me away from the first person shooters for a while. Once you beat this game 
 you probably won't play it again. And for some of you I believe you won't make it halfway through 
 it just because you simply won't be intrested in it. Though E3 showed this game to be a big hit 
 it kinda let alot of people down. Though I am not a big ubisoft fan to begin with (because I always 
 dislike the control and feel of the gameplay for just about all their games) this is not the reason 
 why I am giving this a bad review. 
  
  Overall I am giving this an 8 out of 10 because I thought the developers gave it a shot at doing 
 something different but fell short a little. The gameplay is ok but for the most part repetitive. 
 This is not a must have for the console and if there is a sequel lets hope there is much more to 
 do than just make the killings of your enemy look cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jqm1978
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I am not sure why this game is getting so many kudos, compared to mass effect, and call of duty 
 4 (two of the other big holiday games) this game is mediocre at best. There is just too much running 
 around aimlessly and in many cases it is so repetitive. You have to scale towers to update your 
 map and it just seems like there is way too much filler.
  
  The assasinations are cool but they seem to be just too far and few in between. The fighting system 
 is pretty lame too, it almost becomes a button masher with some extras.
  
  Definitely rent this game before you buy it....... Mass effect will give you way more entertainment 
 and bang for your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ket87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game that introduces some new and interesting game play and a multi-layered 
 plot but fails to flesh them out to their fullest extent and leaves you wanting more on both fronts 
 but still manages to impress. 
  
  In Assassin's Creed you mainly play as Altair, a member of the secretive assassins during living 
 during the 1191 campaign of Richard the Lionheart to retake the holy land. Altair is sent out on 
 assassination missions to take out important political figures to make the holy land a safer place 
 with a more sinister reason in the background. Taking a few cues from their earlier success with 
 the "Prince of Persia" series Ubisoft takes the fast paced though often punishing platforming elements 
 and simplifies them and adds in quite possibly the most realistic sword fighting in any game ever 
 made.
  
  At the beginning of the game you're revealed a major plot twist which if you have not had it ruined 
 yet I won't just out sheer principal. After a few minutes of tutorial and explanation you are introduced 
 to Altair a master assassin and his subordinates as they close in on an important assassination 
 objective. You're given a few brief minutes to get used to Altair's fancy footwork when disaster 
 strikes. Altair's arrogance causes the mission to end in failure. One of your men is killed the 
 other seriously wounded and you stripped of your rank and skills. This is where you begin your 
 quest back at the rank of Novice. You are given your rank slowly back along with your skills as 
 you complete one of the nine main assassination missions given to you by your enigmatic master 
 Al-Mualim. The plot creeps along slowly at first but picks up rather well near the end. The trouble 
 is the sci-fi plot twist which causes the game to run into dual story lines. Altair's plot line 
 is fairly fleshed out the other lacks any real detail and feels tacked on. What ruins the games 
 story is the fact it is revealed to you the first second of the game.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a game ruined by plot. It presents a few fresh ideas, concepts borrowed from 
 one of the most influential movies in the last few years (you'll know which one when you play) . 
 But the revealing of the plot really dampers the end of the plot when you really havn't learned 
 anything from the second story line and when you do learn something you are immediately presented 
 with credits. The game leaves you wanting more which will make part two in this planned trilogy 
 all the more sweeter.
  
  On a game play perspective Assassin's Creed is a mix of wonderful and mundane. The platform elements 
 borrowed then simplified from "Prince of Persia" are wonderful. If you ever played that game and 
 thought this could be fun if it wasn't so hard then AC is for you. Its quite refreshing to see 
 how easy it is for Altair to pull of some amazing moves as he leaps from rooftop to rooftop or 
 scales massive buildings. The combat on the other hand has some equally impressive moments but 
 gets a little boring. While I said the swordplay is the most realistic in any game ever made doesn't 
 make it great. Real in video games sometimes equal frustrating or boring. Its not your typical 
 hack 'n slash here folks. You have to know how to perfectly time your swings and parry the enemy's 
 attacks if you want to survive. And this gets very repetitive and boring after the 15 to 20 hours 
 of game play. The only saving grace of the regular combat is the counter combos. Correctly pressing 
 the right trigger and X at the right moment right before an enemy's strike will allow Altair to 
 go into a short scene of him brutally goring his opponents in dozens of different in satisfying 
 ways.
  
  The other saving grace of the game is how fun assassinating people are be it guards with your hidden 
 blade a small pin like blade the retracts into your sleeve or stalking one of your main targets. 
 The boring part of the game comes before the main assassinations. Every assassination requires 
 3 out of 6 investigations to gain access to the target. Trouble is ever investigation is the same. 
 Eavesdropping, interrogations, pick pocketing, and arbitrary flag quests or assassinating certain 
 guard. Its seems fun at first but after doing it half a dozen times it starts to really annoy. 
 
  
  Although Assassin's Creed has a few glaring faults the high quality of the rest of the game makes 
 up for this and opens up what could be one of the best new series of this generation. Hopefully 
 Ubisoft takes their cues from this game and makes number two even better. This game is good effort 
 and provides enough fun for a playthrough or two but for some its just a rent. 
  
  I'd give it an 8.5 for being an amazing game that is sadly held back by its repetition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saysmark
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great concept surrounded by impressive graphics and gameplay that is fun 
 for a few hours. It really is an amazing game until you realize how repetitive it is. There are 
 only a few different submissions before each "assassination" and they don't differ much from one 
 target to the next. Most of the game is spent either running and hiding from the foot soldiers 
 or fighting them off, which is incredibly easy once you get the hang of the battle system. It took 
 about 10 hours to beat, and it was pretty boring after about 5 and kind of mindless repetition 
 after just about 2 hours. The storyline is very predictable except for the ending which is a HUGE 
 twist. SPOILER ALERT!
  
  At the very end you help your captors find what they were looking for and hear that they plan to 
 kill you soon and just when you think "Bring it, mofos!" the credits roll and you find out that 
 there's really no conclusion to it. Game over, thanks for wasting $60 and 10+ hours for nothing.
 
  
  I gave it a 1.0 because of the 2 hours worth of great gameplay out of 10 minus a deduction for 
 the crappy ending. Don't believe me? Feel free to waste your time and money. I doubt most people 
 giving it 10s on here actually finished it first. I would have given it a 10 if I based it on just 
 two hours worth of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enterpriseb
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Assasins Creed in my opinion is a good game which has very high detailed graphics. The gameplay 
 is good to start off with as Assasins creed gives you a massive map to explore. Not only can you 
 explore this highly detailed map but you can almost interact with abosoloutely anything. You can 
 climb buildings and jump across buildings in infinite ways and also, you have a meter which tells 
 you how suspicious you are acting infront of other people. The more you push people around or jump 
 across buildings, the higher the chance of a guard attacking you is. 
  
  Though assasins creed may be very realistic in these terms, the gameplay is extremely repititive. 
 There is only a number of ways you can attack someone and after a while, attacking guards and killing 
 them with the same moves gets very boring. It is also very annoying when you are trying to do a 
 mission and guards will not stop chasing you and do not give you a chance, especially as they respawn 
 in the middle of your path. Climbing buildings also gets somewhat repititive.
  
  I definitely recommend renting this game first as once you play it for a long time, you are just 
 doing the same thing over. You would regret buying this game for a hefty price as you would get 
 pretty board of it soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkDemyze
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful landscapes; Completely scalable buildings; Deep, interesting story; Brutal 
 counter attacks.
  
  The Bad: Game play can get repetitive; Scenery pop-up; Cliffhanger ending; No XBL support at all 
 (DLC anyone?) .
  
  ???: Um, why can't I climb this tree?
  -------------------------------------------------------------
  
  At the time Assassin's Creed 
 was announced, I couldn't help thinking to myself that this was just going to be another droll 
 ninja game that reviewers would inevitably mock to no end for taking something so cool -the ninja- 
 and turning it into crap. It wasn't until I saw actual game footage that I realized the potential 
 this game could have. Nothing seemed cooler than to play as a white-hooded man who blocks a sword 
 attack, and counters by shoving his own sword through said foe's abdomen.
  
  As it turns out that hooded man's name is Altair [said Al-tah-ear] and he has been forsaken from 
 his assassin's clan after disobeying their creed. In order to redeem himself he is instructed to 
 assassinate 9 men, each of whom are nefarious town leaders that are somehow opposed by the assassins. 
 The year is 1191 so there are no cars, thus you must travel via horseback to get from town to town.
 
  
  Each of the 3 cities: Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem are gorgeously crafted, and thick with life. 
 While there has been no shortage in the graphics department from many games recently released on 
 the 360, this game is no slouch. The attention to detail in the textures on almost every surface 
 is phenomenal and the lighting makes for some awe-inspiring views when perched high on a building 
 top.
  
  As great as the graphics may be, this brings us to our first flaw in the game: there is a noticeable 
 amount of pop-up in the game. Not so much as say GTA: San Andreas where whole buildings appear 
 out of nowhere, but every once in a while you will see a few people just drop in like Harry Potter 
 removing his invisibility cloak. Although this may not be a game breaking feature, in a game that 
 does such a good job at immersing you in the action, it can sort of take you out of the experience.
 
  
  Other than just make the game look nice, one thing developer Ubisoft Montreal managed to do well 
 was create such an interactive environment. I often found myself jumping through a merchant stand, 
 running across a clearing then up some wood stacks, swinging on a pole, jumping across wooden platforms 
 then into a bail of hay in order to escape from perusing guards. Any ledges or cracks in a wall 
 that stick out more than about 4 inches can be used to climb.
  
  If you've played Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time you will notice Altair's movement feels very 
 similar to the Prince. The wall run and the wall hop are inconspicuously absent though  two things 
 that I think would have just made sense to be in this game. The combat is also similar in the sword 
 fighting albeit a lack of aerial maneuvers. Assassin's Creed makes up for this with stunning finishers 
 and counter-attack kills that will surely make you cringe the first few times you see them. The 
 sword fighting is very satisfying as you hear your sword crash against your opponents' chain mail 
 and hear them yelp in agony. All animations feel fluid and just look natural.
  
  Unfortunately as awesome as the gameplay and combat is, my second caveat about the game is the 
 repetition. You are only given four different weapons so it won't take long before you've seen 
 just about every fighting animation there is to see. Also, the missions start to get a "lather, 
 rinse, repeat" feeling by the 3rd assassination. I didn't find this to be a large problem because 
 it isn't much unlike many other games but it wouldn't hurt to have just a bit more variety in the 
 mission structure.
  
  The crowd adds another layer to the game's depth as well. The people all feel like they have a 
 place in the world. Each person feels like they have their own objective that they are carrying 
 out, be it going to the market for food, working at their merchant stand, or just harass you for 
 money. You can walk with scholars and become completely invisible to guards. When climbing buildings 
 the people will take notice and comment about what they are seeing.
  
  What I found makes the game most interesting is the ability to play the game however you want much 
 like Bioshock. You can complete your objectives in whatever order you want, and however you want. 
 You can be sneaky and stay on rooftops and completely out of sight or stay right in the middle 
 of the crowd and use the people for cover. Or you can rush right in, pushing the crowd out of your 
 way to get closer to your target and fight them that way.
  
  All around the game truly gives a next-gen experience and is definitely a must play. While there 
 are a few shortcomings, this is more than made up for with a deep story and tight combat mechanics. 
 The story may not be entirely unpredictable but it's still intriguing nevertheless. And despite 
 the end being somewhat of a cliffhanger, if you really pay attention you might notice it's really 
 not so bad after all. In a season filled with triple-A first-person-shooters, this is a nice breathe 
 of fresh air to those who may be looking for a third person action/adventure game this holiday 
 season and is absolutely worth the time of any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Me_L33T
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best, from great graphics, to an excellent story, this game rules everything. 
 The control system is just hard enough to keep the hardcore coming back for more, but also easy 
 enough for the noobs to learn. The graphics are phenominal, from the subtile movements of you character 
 to the way that everything flows, this game has the best graphics seen on a concile. The story 
 is also a mix of historical fiction with a futuristic setting, which I thought was very cool. Plus, 
 this game was made by the hottest game maker.... ever! The counter kills are also excellent, providing 
 you with a different way to kill you enemys each and every time. The other cool parts are that 
 you can move around during in game cut-sceans, you can change the camera during cut sceans and 
 some of the weapons that you get are bad ass~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionedmango
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I felt like every mission was very similar to the last and quickly got bored with the game. There 
 aren't very many options for how to kill people. Also, the investigations are very repetitive as 
 well. After each mission, you end up back in the same exact place and do the same thing again. 
 When a mission is completed, the character is then sent to the head of the assassins and you sit 
 there while he teaches you some crap and then you have to run back to the next mission which is 
 the same exact thing. However, the graphics are still really sick and it's fun to climb stuff. 
 It's still a bomb game it's just that only one person can play and I felt like it was very repetitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omanitspete
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I thought the game at first was actually really fun. Large environment, lots of ppl to kill, an 
 arsenal of weapons and there was a lot of missions to do. The thing I didnt really like was it 
 felt like it was too much of the same thing. You follow a guy, you ease drop, you kill the guy, 
 now I dont really know what else an assassin would really do but come on. I really didnt like the 
 story at all that was just a weird twist. Hes a guy from the present time or future who can go 
 into a machine that creates memories? I mean that some original stuff but very hard to follow. 
 It felt like I was watching a movie instead of playing the game also. 1/3 of the game was just 
 sitting there and watching the ppl talk. I'd give this game like a B+ at most. If you want to just 
 run around and kill ppl or w/e this is your game. I wish there was more animations to the kills 
 now that would have been a big plus. Like I said before I like this game but if they just fixed 
 some things it would be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkam_Asylum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  What attracted me to this game with previews, still has me hooked.
  
  Let me address the 800 pound gorilla in the room regarding the variety, or lack thereof in the 
 missions. Yes, there is a set of objectives that must be completed within each section of the city. 
 Yes, most of them are the same.
  
  To the the claims that the game is repetitive, try taking a a different approach. Penny Arcade had 
 it right, this is not a game you rush through. Try exploring and appreciate the details.
  
  The scope of the cities are jaw dropping and the art direction is tight, and I think the criticism 
 of the game having more eye candy than substance are somewhat short sighted and don't give the 
 design team justice. This is obviously a well researched, detailed view of the 3Rd Crusade Era 
 and it is no small feat what they pulled off in this game. You have to give Ubisoft that.
  
  The parcour free running is fun and if employed right, the best part of the game, minus the 
 assissinations.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lifeisvulgar
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD...
  - visually stunning
  - innovative cutscene mechanic
  - it's pretty neat to be able to climb almost anywhere
  - the combo and counter moves look cool 
 and make for dramatic fights, but you have no control over which one you do
  
  
  
  THE BAD...
  - The gameplay is repetitive - you basically walk around doing about one of two things 
 over and over again.
  - climb a tower to get a better view of what's going on in the city (about 12 per level)
  - save 
 a person that is being harassed (about 8-11 per level - way too many given the slow fighting mechanics)
 
  Then, in each mission, they mix this boring b. s. into it as well
  - pickpocket someone for information (about 2 per level)
  - interrogate someone for information 
 (1 per level)
  - eavesdrop on a conversation (1 per level)
  - collect flags (they're scattered all over the place, not a requirement)
  Then at the end of 
 a mission you get to assassinate a target 
  
  - The cutscenes are long, boring, and too frequent - plus you can't skip them
  
  - The fighting 
 is based more on luck rather than skill - considering that a fight breaks out if you literally 
 run too fast in the street, this really sucks. You constantly have to try and hide.
  
  - The movement of the character is slow and clunky. This makes the 
  
  - There's no subtitles 
 - Considering how the voice-acting is mixed with ambient crowd noises during eavesdropping, this 
 game needs subtitles. ALL games need subtitles - especially since most gamers use the 360's media 
 center to listen to music while they play.
  
  
  
  THE END...
  The reason why you are seeing 9.5 and 10/10 ratings for it is because the publisher told the game 
 magazines that they couldn't post an early review unless they gave it a score higher than "9."
 
  
  I'm giving it a "3" since it has occupied so much of my time. That doesn't mean it's a good game, 
 it just means I've got nothing else to play.
  
  - John Musco 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tricet
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game rocks!!! Stealth kills, sword fights and the freedom of going anywhere when you want 
 beats anything I've ever played. I'm a big fan of the Splinter Cell Games and this totally blows 
 any of them away. The difficulty is perfect throughout the whole game as you get better it gets 
 more difficult. The game play is awesome and easy to get use to and the freedom to climb any building, 
 explore and travel horse back (because walking is no fun) just brings you more into the game and 
 character and finally this game has a gripping story told throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is not just a regular action game. It's something that's meant to be bigger, better, 
 and definitely more playabe than most other games of the genre. There are 3 things that make Assassin's 
 Creed one of the best games, not only of the year, but ever:
  
  The gameplay and world: this is probably the best thing about the game. You make your way through 
 three enormous medieval cities that look, feel, and probably even smell like the real things. What's 
 so great about it is that you can do virtually ANYTHING in these cities. From walking around the 
 market listening to people talk to climbing the buildings like a real pro - you name it. This is 
 something that is a rarity in games, you can do whatever you want whenever you wanna do it. Total 
 freedom I mean. It's up to you if you wanna fight your way out of a tough situation or escape to 
 the rooftops, you decide how to kill your targets, you play your strikes, and so forth. Even if 
 you have an active quest that doesn't mean you can't go to another city, or take on a new side 
 mission where you are at the moment. Or you can simply just climb high buildings to watch everything 
 from above, which is great fun, because the climbing mechanics is very fun to use. All in all, 
 I probably haven't really played a game that offers you this much freedom. Just climb the highest 
 tower in a town and you'll know what I mean. The gameplay and the whole idea, the mechanics of 
 the game make you feel like you're doing things in the fashion a real assassin in the middle ages 
 would do. All the climbing and jumping and acrobatics look and feel so great, you're gonna think 
 that running on walls like in The Matrix is child's play.
  
  Second thing is the story. It's obvious that the story for the game has been really thought through. 
 In one word, it is flawless. I never expected it to be so interesting and indulging when I first 
 launched the game. Each target you assassinate brings you closer to unveiling something that is 
 very unexpected. You do expect that there is going to be a huge twist in the plot, yes. But the 
 way it actually twists is a huge surprise, and that's just awesome beyond awesomeness. The very 
 fact that there are two stories in the game puts in on a level which is higher than anything else. 
 I don't wanna put any spoilers in here so just try the game, I swear it's worth the money and the 
 time.
  
  The third thing which makes AC so good is the combat mechanics. Ten dudes with swords circle you. 
 And yes, you can kill them all, and it looks amazing. Basically what you do is wait for them to 
 strike and then use the counter attack. And this where the fun starts. The counter attacks are 
 actually counter kills. When you perform a counter kill, you knock your opponents sword away and 
 then perform some really cool moves that kill the guy. You can impale him with your sword, chop 
 his head off (almost, becase it doesn't actually fall off, don't know why) or just cut him up with 
 your short blade. All of that looks spectacular, the camera zooms in to show you how your character 
 moves and that's simply beautiful. Your assassin is a master of the sword, I actually finished 
 the game using only counter kills becase the sequence you get to see when performing one is that 
 amazing. It's hard to describe even, watch the video review! And there are also the stealth kills 
 which you perform using your hidden blade. Breathtaking. Seriously.
  
  So you probably ask yourself why this game got onlu 9.5 from me. Well, it has some minor issues 
 that are noticable. Basically it's that some particular characters and places look the same. But 
 I guess it's something you can't avoid when you got a huge town with literally thousands of peple 
 in it. But these minor thing mean nothing, it's definitely one of the most fun and interesting 
 games that ever came out on the 360. Worth every penny and every hour spent playing. A must-have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chachachedda
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  I bought AC as soon as it came out as i had been waiting forever for it, and dont get me wrong 
 the graphics on it are amazing, best in any game along with GoW. but after the first two missions 
 its just the same thing over and over and over, no real challenge or anything new, the creators 
 have done a beatuiful job with the graphics and diologue and characters etc, but it lacks in gameplay 
 whick in my eyes counts for a hell of alot more than anything in a game. Like i have just bought 
 Kane and Lynch, everyone gave it a crap score because of the controlls and graphicks and story 
 etc, the story is quality, the graphics are great especially on hd, not as good as AC or Gow but 
 the story and gameplay is far far better, and thats what counts. 
  
  So anyway if anyone hasnt played this yet and is wanting to, beleive me, rent it for a weekend, 
 only 3.50 and you will have done it or got bored of it by the end of the weekend, and if you do 
 think its a worthy game, then buy it, its only 3.50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan88941
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Over all Assassins Creed is a great game, but not one id spend $65 on. At first you will really 
 enjoy the fighting and ciematics. Also the open citys that allow you to travel anywhere. It only 
 takes a little while to get used to fighting and compleating objectives. But after you know what 
 your doing it can almost become boring. Climb a high point, pickpocket, save some citizens and 
 do it all over again. Thats pretty much the whole game. Not only that but as the game progresses 
 so does the difficulty. This can be really frustrating. Because the game is fairly easy to begin 
 with there isnt much the makers could do to make it hard without making it stupid. You have to 
 have patcients because if you run from place to place youll be attacked. And while fighting off 
 thirty guards can be cool it will only make playing harder because more guards come. Then every 
 other persone on the street is either retarded, drunk, or a begger. So you get harrassed nonstop. 
 lets think about this for a second. Your a guard and you see someone being attacked by a begger 
 and a retarded guy punching you.... hmmm KILL HIM. yea thats the first thing that jumps into my 
 head. Not only that but at the end the objectives are the same over and over again. This is because 
 the only challanging objective is the one were you have to stealth assinate people in a time limit. 
 So toward the end of the game bordom and frustration will be the only thing youll think about. 
 And to top it all off the game is only about 20 including all the side quests (not finding all 
 the flags) If you want you can probably breeze through it in under 10. I beat the game in about 
 five days and i didnt even play that much each day. So good game but deffinittally worth the money. 
 Hopefully the next one will be longer and incorperate some new objectives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dregornn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I beat the game in around 20-25 hours of play or so and have to say it was great. The storyline 
 was different not the best i've heard but different and quite good. I really liked the unique combat 
 system really gives the game a different feel than most but I feel it made the game too easy after 
 you got use to it. You can easily take 40-50 guys if you have good timing. I do really like how 
 open the game world is you can go to unbelievable heights in the game. It was kind of weird jumping 
 into hay bales though. Overall a great game, very enjoyable experience. I just feel it was too 
 short and kind of easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neolink05
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  elements
  Great game, innovate system of battle, really great graphics, spcial the lights and shadows, good 
 history, the battles and the city are soo visual. but have alements that make that a simple game.
 
  
  
  good points
  - really good graphics
  - innovate combat system
  - great motion capture
  - assassin like a real assasin
  
  bad point
  - you always do the 
 same in each city in each level.
  - gameplay so repetitive
  - the automatic control make alot of mistakes, special when you are running
  
  conclusion
 
  
  Play to decide, in my opinion are a good game, additive, the combat system is very innovate, and 
 very visual, assassin creed is a game to buy for discover all the achievements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haeravon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Assassin's Creed, I was expecting the three cities. I wasn't expecting them to be 
 quite as large as they are, and I wasn't expecting the expansive 'Kingdom' area, nor the home-base 
 village of Masyaf. These turned out to be fun bonuses, calming me after the less-than-impressive 
 introduction-but at least they tried to be innovative, right? 
  
  Even though it's great fun to climb on the Dome of the Rock and to the tops of Catholic cathedrals, 
 most of the cities feel the same from area to area. Despite there being thousands of NPCs populating 
 cities, as far as gameplay is concerned they all fall into simple categories: beggars, drunks, 
 guards, thugs, scholars, vigilantes, and get-in-the-way peasants. The climbing mechanics work well 
 and the sheer beauty of the game keeps the cities from getting too terribly repetitive, although 
 after a while different parts of the same cities will start to look.. well.. the same.
  
  Collecting flags keeps you honest and encourages you to explore each area to its fullest, a welcome 
 task, to be honest. The sub-quests.. which are essentially the same from target to target, city 
 to city, at least provide some back story and information on your targets for your trouble. 
  
  The real meat of the game is its combat, surprisingly, which is actually rather fun. You can 
 off most of your opponents with a well-timed button press. For some reason it's tons of fun to 
 kill enemy soldiers, be they crusaders or not. The only problem with the combat is the damage the 
 enemies do. It's really not enough, since towards the end you'll have 20 synch 'beads' that recover 
 as you fight..
  
  In any case, the voice acting is generally top notch, except, as often noted, for Altair, who talks 
 much like I imagine a potato talking.. if potato's could talk. Everybody else in the game sounds 
 authentic, good enough at times to make me wonder just what they're saying in French, German.. 
 whatever..
  
  In the end, Assassin's Creed is an expansive, semi-linear action game with stealth elements (being 
 fair) . The freedom to climb about as you please and the gratifying combat system make up for the 
 repetition of side-missions. And the story is generally good-when it's not so good, you can tend 
 to ignore it. The only thing I end up wondering at the end of the game is if they're going to ruin 
 future installments by taking out the swordplay and exploration that made the first one so fun.
 
  
  Say no to guns, Ubi.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlytoque
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Disclosure: I am a history nerd, with a taste for the Middle East. I am always excited by the ways 
 in which events taking place in the Cradle of Civilization ages ago still impact our modern world. 
 I am also a big fan of stealth games and the Prince of Persia series. So when I heard that Ubisoft 
 Montreal -- of Prince of Persia: Sands of Time fame -- was making a game set in the Middle East 
 with a stealthy freerunning hero, I got excited. My computer had AC wallpaper for a loooong time 
 before the launch, and I followed the dev diaries and announcements closely.
  
  So, when I picked up my copy on launch day, brought it home, fired it up, and began immersing myself 
 into the world they had created, I had very high expectations. I wasn't disappointed.
  
  All games have flaws, to be sure. The way the stealth detection works is a little confusing; the 
 writers bend over a little bit too far backwards in an attempt not to offend anyone; the investigation 
 missions leading up to an assassination are incredibly simple and a little repetitive; but overall, 
 the gameplay experience of Assassin's Creed, from the lush visuals, the huge and busy environments, 
 the freeform way in which you traverse your environment, the interesting and convoluted plot, more 
 than make up for a few little nagging doubts.
  
  A lot of people have been complaining about the ending. To them I say: Welcome to the new era of 
 video gaming. Here's your complimentary guide to film and literary structuring. Not everything 
 can be wrapped up in a single film or novel. Over fifty years ago, Tolkein established the trilogy 
 of novels as a standard in speculative fiction (although it was his editor's idea, and not his) . 
 The three-part formula is reproduced in books, films, the new-style serialized TV series, and now 
 video games. The first Prince of Persia game ended quite conclusively, but the second one treats 
 it as an open ending, picking up the loose threads and running with them. The second one, especially 
 if you get the "secret" ending, leaves no doubt to the existence of a third. The same thing is 
 going on here. If you enjoyed playing AC, then you will probably thrill at the end when they hint 
 at the potential sequels and their settings (the nature of which I will not hint at here, for fear 
 of spoilers) .
  
  The combat has also taken a lot of fire, but it's enjoyable enough, since it's basically a timing 
 game, and each of the weapons handles very differently. Combined witht he grab and dodge options, 
 there's a variety of styles of play to suit different players, and if you don't like any of those 
 styles, then you can always run, and the street-to-rooftop chases are one of the most exciting 
 aspects of the game.
  
  I like that play never gets bogged down. The pacing of the missions is quite nice, and you can 
 choose to do them in a variety of different orders, if you get stuck or just want a change of scenery. 
 The game has no difficulty options, but once you get the feel for it, you don't really need them.
 
  
  My favorite thing about the game was definitely the environments, and the fact that you can traverse 
 them in any way you please. Moving about these huge cities, you definitely get the feel of ancientness, 
 with an overlay of medieval inhabitation. The layers of filth and inhabitation nicely highlight 
 the buildings, carved as they are out of the same rock, and thus featuring largely the same colour 
 scheme. The cities are FULL of people, moving around, going about their business. It can be a bit 
 annoying that beggars and other harassers are drawn to you like you have a crazy-magnet in your 
 robes, and that the citizens you rescue all have exactly the same things to say to you, but the 
 cities feel alive nonetheless.
  
  My least favorite thing had to be the flag collecting. I'm not normally big on collecting acheivements, 
 since there's very little tangible reward for doing so. I replayed Halo 3 a fair bit, to unlock 
 different skins for multiplayer, but here, the achievements serve no purpose but to pad your gamerscore. 
 Running around the Holy Land murdering Templars and collecting 420 flags is tedious, especially 
 when there's no benefit for getting them all.
  
  Another complaint is the paucity of the goodies in the collector's edition of the game. The little 
 figurine is cool, although mine came broken, but the comic is short and adds very little, the "mini 
 strategy guide" is nothing but an advertisement for the art book and the full-size strat guide, 
 and the bonus disc features a few new interviews, and then just content that had been previously 
 released on the website, like developer diaries and the barely-watchable film contest entries.
 
  
  I also really dislike the fact that Altair can't swim. Water equalling instant death is a millstone 
 around the necks of modern gaming. Even if he could only tread water slowly, so that you could 
 bob over to the edge and climb out. It destroys suspension of disbelief that someone who can leap 
 building-to-building and catch onto narrow ledges with just his fingertips can't even doggy paddle.
 
  
  Overall, I can heartily recommend AC, especially if you like stealth games, alternative history, 
 or the Prince of Persia series. Finishing the game with all of the investigation missions took 
 me just over a week of casual play, so you might be able to get away with a rental. If you are 
 an achievement-addict, as some people are, then it's worth buying for the flag-hunts, but get the 
 basic, rather than the collectors'.
  
  I'm just waiting for the next one to be announced so I can change my desktop, and trying to figure 
 out what to play until Splinter Cell 5 is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon79
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed has been touted for some time now as one of the games (if not THE game) that will 
 define the current generation of consoles. At first glance, it's easy to see why. Undeniably gorgeous 
 to look at, Creed's graphics will be the reason that many a PS3 and 360 will be bought this Christmas. 
 The animation and sound too are sublime, with the main character moving and interacting with a 
 level of reality and confidence rarely seen in a game. The cities look and feel realistic and within 
 your first hour of play you will be blown away by the richness and depth of it all... then somehow 
 it all falls apart...
  
  Questionable plot aside (silly plots seldom ruin my enjoyment of a game) the core mechanic of the 
 game is mind numbingly repetitive. Go to city. Climb "x" amount of towers. Jump into some hay afterward 
 (does no one else think it ludicrous that in a game that strives for realism that there are carts 
 of hay next to EVERY damn tower.) Rescue "x" amount of villagers who will most likely thank you 
 in exactly the same way the last 20 did. Run away from guards and hide from them in yet more hay 
 or maybe a roof garden and scratch your head at why they are so easily baffled by your sub-Tenchu 
 level stealth tactics. Walk around an entire city with a sword on your belt and a dagger on your 
 back and wonder why walking slowly and joining your hands convinces guards you are a priest.... I 
 could go on endlessly about the flaws but I'm running out of words. The core problem is essentially 
 very dated gaming principles attached to a highly advanced gaming engine. And it's a shame that 
 a game so well thought out in some ways was so poorly thought out in others. If more time was handed 
 over to it's stronger elements (the excellent parkour system being one obvious choice) and less 
 to it's weaker ones we might have had a classic here. Sadly, this one will be filling bargain bins 
 in the next couple of months. Just you wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon123454321
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion this is on of the best games so far. there is many things to do. you can go around 
 killing people with a sword, a dagger and a throwing knife. you could fight people with your fists 
 but you don't have to. lastly, with a hidden blade to kill someone silently and before they see 
 you. everything makes sense, it slowly gets harder as you get better, plus there are tons of other 
 things to do. there are nine guys to kill, once you kill the last one, you then get to kill your 
 master. :-) 
  
  p. s. i would recommend this game and the next one when it comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game had so much promise, and I suppose it still does if you consider the sequel that I am 
 sure is coming. The graphics are fantastic, although there is some pop in. There is a ton of detail 
 in the textures and lighting. There really isn't much music in the game, or background sound for 
 that matter. I have to give the game credit for at least trying to be historically accurate. The 
 story line is alright, nothing special, it would have been way better if they didn't spoil the 
 main plot twist in the first two minutes of the game. Although honestly, I would have preferred 
 that they did away with all that science fiction stuff. Climbing and jumping looks and feels great, 
 as well as sifting through crowds or blending in with monks. The combat, while many claim it to 
 be intricate and detailed, just feels like button mashing to me. Some of your missions are pretty 
 boring, while others are rather exciting. The voice acting is great, well except for Altar. His 
 actor is very stiff sounding, and has an American accent despite coming from the middle east. I 
 will say that I got more into the game the more I played, but being completely honest, i didn't 
 have much fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Having read the issues of EGM and the various mixed reactions based on their coverage/evaluation 
 of Assassin's Creed, I initially was not intending to pick this up. But Gerstmann's review of Kane 
 & Lynch (the REAL, FIRST ONE, not the "sanitized" one that GS replaced it with) , prompted me to 
 turn right around and get this instead. I also worried in that they'd felt that a crucial storyline 
 element ended up being given away right at the beginning.
  
  For those who haven't played it, yes there is some rather crucial plotline given up at the very 
 start. And while it's a pretty weak plot device in and of itself, it is enough to allow you to 
 get into the action and the main component of the game.
  
  As such, while there is another character whom you really are, the majority of time is spent playing 
 in the 11th century as the assassin Altair, clad in white robes and various weapons (with a growing 
 arsenal as you progress through the story) . There are a few things that your (real-world) character 
 can do in between sessions/levels, but most of it takes a back seat to the primary action that 
 happens in the era of the Third Crusades.
  
  Having royally fucked up, you as Altair are demoted to the basic ranks and must then work your 
 way back up by performing assignments and killing the primary targets. Doing this allows you to 
 re-learn everything you were stripped off, gain new combat moves and otherwise make the job of 
 being an assassin somewhat easier to accomplish.
  
  Thankfully, the combat system isn't as bad as EGM initially made it out to be. The controls do 
 take a context-sensitive puppeteering mechanic where each of the face buttons corresponds to a 
 limb (head, arms or legs) , but with practice you find it works well this way. Some may prefer a 
 more traditional control schema, but this is quite suitable for the context of the game. That's 
 not to say it's not perfect... given the related achievement, pulling off a combo kill reliably 
 is next to impossible, and the timing to perform certain counters against attacking guards (once 
 you learn that) can be difficult to learn, leading to a lot of free hits you give up and quickly 
 losing 'sync'.
  
  Another interesting thing that helps develop the story and makes this game stand out differently 
 from others is the level of gravity that is placed on each of your primary targets. Before you 
 can even try to make an attempt on the target's life, you have to do some investigations. These 
 can range either from helping out an informer on the streets, beating up some public speaker for 
 information, pickpocketing a map/letter/etc. or eavesdropping on different people who would know 
 something crucial. While you can generally get by and going into the assassination with only a 
 few of these completed, it is in your best interests to do them all. Optional missions include 
 scaling the heights of the tallest buildings in a region and/or saving the occasional oppressed 
 citizen. While not necessary, they are also in your best interest to complete as the former helps 
 improve the detail of the map and reveal the locations of different missions to do, while saving 
 citizens gets more immediate reward either with scholars (whom can help you get into guarded areas) 
 or vigilantes to help screw with guards so you can either get away or clear them quickly. And even 
 then, once you're in the area where your target will be, great care must be taken (with the intelligence 
 collected to help you plan your route) in order to assure a quick, effective kill.
  
  The graphics are very well done, with a very vivid recreation of 11th century cities in the middle 
 east. Not just that, but the sheer scale of these cities is no laughing matter. Even individual 
 sections of a city feel massive, and you could spend hours traversing through locations of a fully 
 unlocked city. The intermediary kingdom that lets you reach the connected cities is also quite 
 large in itself.
  
  Sound is well done, and even more so when you can either listen to it through a quality sound system, 
 or even headphones, as it allows the very subtle sound effects and ambient noises to really come 
 out and help immerse you into the aspect of being the trained killer.
  
  That's not to say that the game doesn't have its faults. For one, the nature of the "missions" 
 to do in each location for gathering intelligence on your targets can become very excessively repetitive, 
 especially if you are trying to do the informer assassinations and get spotted, only to have to 
 reset and try it again.
  
  What's also frustrating is the "alertness" (if you will) of the guards. For example, during the 
 horse riding segments, unless you hold down the button to basically clop ever so slowly, they immediately 
 spaz out and try to kill you. It's as if there was some super-arbitrary speed limit law back then. 
 Or when you try to save the citizens and finish killing the guards that you could see, then you 
 go up to the citizen to talk with him/her and as soon as that's done, there are already another 
 shit load of guards to try and kill you there. And compared to the regular guards, the templars 
 behave like super-soldiers that can spot you readily, counter nearly everything you try and otherwise 
 make your objective of killing them even more difficult.
  
  Even then, the other source of frustration are basically between the standard fodder guards and 
 the harassing citizens. Some locations have these leper-looking dudes with no shirts that think 
 it's somehow funny to punch you out or push you away, but try to do the same thing in return to 
 them (in front of a guard) and suddenly they get all pissed off because it's somehow not as funny 
 when you do it. And then you have these nagging women on the street that are always begging for 
 coins and getting up in your face for it or chasing you down like a bad episode of COPS. And even 
 if you just push/shove them out of the way, then they cry out like it's somehow your fault that 
 they're so annoying. Oh yea, and killing citizens robs your health/sync bar... fun /sarcasm.
  
  The other thing about the game is that you don't really die, but basically once your "health" 
 meter runs out, you lose sync and must reload your entry into the game, which when you've been 
 pretty wrapped up in that point, can really take you out of the immersion of the game. It's even 
 more frustrating when it's near the endgame section where you're surrounded with what looks like 
 hundreds of guards and must kill them all before going after the intended target. And in order 
 to build up "sync", you have to complete all the objectives (required and optional) to build up 
 that meter properly.
  
  For those who love to hunt for and get their achievements, the flag collecting will keep you busy. 
 But you'll almost invariably want to buy the guide or start searching for a quality map, as it 
 can be guaranteed that the average player won't be able to find these on their own, with many being 
 VERY well hidden, and only a few that actually are out in the open. And doing all the flag collecting 
 and templar-killing supposedly opens up segments of another memory block you can access after the 
 "ending" the game provides (which plays more like just the transition that should lead you right 
 into the sequel, which of course isn't out yet) . On its own, the ending sucks; but the journey 
 is what makes this game show its high production values and where it stands out best.
  
  The back of the game box quotes a review from IGN. com which states Assassin's Creed as "The first 
 true next-gen experience has arrived". This may be true in some ways, though one can't shake the 
 feeling that it's tried to find some middle ground between past-gen strengths and (now) this-gen 
 nuances. It gets commended for daring to be different and going in a new direction (or three) , 
 and completionists will be kept quite busy going through it, even though users armed with the strategy 
 guide (and/or) maps can theoretically unlock all the achievements in a single playthrough. As such, 
 the replay value is a bit hampered, but shouldn't deter you from picking this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAlex
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  When I got my hands on Assassin's Creed, I was instantly gripped by the novelty of climbing and 
 running around a wonderful landscape, with amazing populations. However, after a few assassinations, 
 you're left with something of a repetitive game. It's the same set methods of acquiring information, 
 of which there's no mix up to give it a bit of differentiation. Killing can be stealthy, but there 
 are many moments where you're exposed straight off and you simply have to hack your way through. 
 Which is fun, I'll give you that.
  
  Collecting flags is boring, but it allows you to explore the cities. The most addictive part of 
 the game is climbing up to viewpoints to see the vistas, hands down.
  
  I was gripped by powering through the story, wanting to know Altair and Desmond's fates, but when 
 you get to the end, you feel things are unresolved. When I got to the end, I saw 'Sequel' flash 
 through my mind. 
  
  I liked this game a lot  at the time. Now it's finished, I've put it to one side and not really 
 thought about it again. I think I will look back at it fondly, but will require a sequel to do 
 so. Assassin's Creed I believe will become the foundation of a much improved sequel, where they'll 
 have worked out weaker elements of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelo91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  assasin's creed is like a prince of pesia but with better moves and your an assasin te gameplay 
 is good the moves are really natural but the control are little confused. the scenerios are big 
 and extensive and you have more options to complete your objetives, also the detail of the cloaking 
 with the monks is something i've ever seen. the jump of te towers fallin in straw's cars and the 
 runs by the beams its a detail taken of the prince of persia. in adition you can have horses thats 
 really aid when your runing after killing a contract takin out of your everyone who get in your 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxcimion360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I don't know much about this game, because I've only started it. It is a great game from the beginning 
 though, and I like how there is no cutscenes to slow down the game. I can't understand the story 
 yet, but I am sure it'll all come together soon. It's remarkably addictive and as soon as I get 
 home from school, I want to start playing it. I think this is an original game that stands out 
 from the rest of today's game releases, with all the shooters. It really proves that the greatest 
 game do not have to be like the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orion08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is this years best game. With great visuals, simple yet compelling controls, wonderful 
 story line, and open ended play, not even the all mighty Halo 3 can stand up.
  
  Everyone knows that AC's graphics are fantastic. So I'm not gunna waste my time talking about the 
 cut scenes, the full open views, historical accuracy, and wonderful player model. 
  
  The controls.. oh the controls. they are simple yet, they are perfect. Most of the game you will 
 spend directing yourself across buildings. Now some people will say all you have to do is push 
 a single button, but in truth, there is a level of skill in control. You have to know wat you can 
 or cant jump onto, wat you can or can not climb. This might even sound simple to you but when you 
 are on the run from 10 guards, these skills come in handy. Ok so combat. Everyone has complained 
 about how easy it is, but have you really fought in a crowd of 20 guards? Try that and then tell 
 me it is so easy. The counter attacks work wonderfully, and require the right timing to pull off 
 an instant kill rather then a kick to the ground. After awhile you will learn your enemies valuable 
 spots and when they expose themselves to attack, that is when you use your counters to the best 
 effect. Just push the button combo wont always give you a kill, you have to watch your enemy and 
 time your attack correctly. As for the Assassinations themselves... well they are.. so much fun 
 to perform. Nothing can be better then sneaking up on a guard stabbing him in the back and having 
 no one around you realize what just happened. The thing i thought was over simplified were the 
 throwing knives. Over the whole span of the game i think i missed like twice with my knives. The 
 problem is, i dont know what else they could've done to make them deeper and harder to use. But 
 with a simple button push you can kill just about anyone in one hit from a completely different 
 roof top.
  
  So the story. I dont understand people's problem with it. To me, the story made this game perfect. 
 Maybe you guys dont know history or something but it ties a fictional plot into one of the most 
 violent eras in human history. So whats wrong with the sci fi twist? Nothing. the fact that the 
 conflict of two small yet influential groups from the crusades continues through our era and into 
 the future is a great concept. Both of these groups dont really care about religion like most people 
 would assume but rather the Templar want the world and the assassins are trying to protect the 
 common people until they can reach the "truth". This truth is hidden from us through cryptic language, 
 but to me it seems to be that people can do as the please without someone trying to control them. 
 To me this gives the game a feel of deeper meaning. How outrageous that i pull that from a game 
 i know. The ending is confusing but thought provoking and my only problem with the game as a whole 
 is that it was way to short. I put something like 10 hours maybe into it and i did most of the 
 secondary objectives. Most people thought that the emails you can unlock and find were worthless, 
 but i thought it added to the depth of the game. It lets us know how evil the Templar are without 
 just being told they are evil.
  
  Oh how Grand theft auto changed the world. Assassin's Creed takes a note from GTA with an open 
 world. You can go anywhere, kill anyone, and do almost anything in this world. Don't feel like 
 following the story? Thats fine, run around looking for flags, templars, or high points to unlock 
 a different ending. Just feel like running around? Well you can do that too but the most fun for 
 me was just fighting guards for no reason. 
  
  This is my longest review so feed back would be great...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery_dude
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed what can I say, nothing short of EPIC!
  I was wanting this game so much that I became addicted to video reviews etc. at one point sad you 
 could say. Then when I got it it was like the feeling an Elvis fan would get if Elvis hadn't died 
 squeezing that crap out and went on to a ripe old age! Now I think I shall actually start the review!
 
  
  Graphics: It has great graphics some of the best in the next gen graphics yet!
  It has great character models good facial animation and very good sound acting! The way your character 
 and all the other characters move and respond is simply amazing and realistic. From simply walking 
 to high impact chase scenes through crowded streets and empty rooftops. The animations in it look 
 so smooth even though there is the occasional bit of lag. (Which I must say seems to go on forever!)
 
  
  Controls: After seeing early on in game videos I was beginning to assume that the controls would 
 be insanely difficult but once you get the jist of them in the extremely east tutorial it just 
 becomes second nature. For instance jumping from a ledge to a swingy pole to a flat bit with a 
 wall run and grasp then climbing up something to get to a garden hut to hide in is as easy as holding 
 RT and A (Xbox Controls here!) and simply pushing the left stick in the direction you want him to 
 jump to, swing to, climb to.
  They are incredibly easy once you've played for a short while.
  Some of the tutorial isn't the 
 clearest thing in the world I must say. Now for the fighting controls these controls once again 
 are fairly easy but at the same time slightly harder than the free running controls or le parkour 
 as it is properly called. The main difference is blocking the defensive stance which is initiated 
 by holding RT when they jump at you (once you've unlocked this move read on to find out what I 
 mean!) you press X to counter some of which are pretty horrible you can counter with your hidden 
 blade, short sword and long sword. (Once again once unlocked.) You can press B multiple times once 
 they've grabbed you to grab break where you will no doubt just end up throwing them away. The fighting 
 and jumping assassinations are great and look all so smooth well worth playing without this part 
 of the game it would be no where near as good as it truly is.
  
  Interaction/AI: The amount of interaction to the crowd in this game is pretty amazing and the AI 
 is very smart but sometimes as dull as a broken light.
  The fact that every move you make has a consequence works with and against you. If you go running 
 in causing havoc the crowd will begin to be wary and yell "assassin" as they don't like you and 
 want you out of there. Where as if you just sneak in kill the man the crowd hates real quick and 
 silent then they will like you. One of the things I like is the scholars and vigilantes but once 
 again please read on if you would like to find out more.
  The interaction with the crowd is good you can go through three different 
  levels of awareness 
 you could say one is calm blend holding a which also works when the HUD is red but not chase red 
 but as I keep saying more will be revealed as the review goes on. Then there is in the middle holding 
 be for a gentle push this does not make guards aware of your presence. Finally there is the intense 
 awareness stage where you are sprinting through the streets barging into people potentially knocking 
 them over with the tackle move. (Once again has to be unlocked.)
  
  Missions: The missions do get quite repetitive as it is usually the same circumstances do your 
 missions to find out where your main target is located then sneak into the usually restricted area 
 where the mark is and assassinate them. Now this is where the difference comes in some of them 
 have the type of I'll runaway personality where you must give chase constantly being stopped by 
 guards having to either barge them out the way (once you have unlocked tackle) or risk losing the 
 mark and staying behind to fight them. Some will run but then stop to fight you like a man. Some 
 will just fight you straight away. There is of course the likeliness that you assassinate them 
 properly then you have to get back to the assassins bureau where you rest and then given the choice 
 to skip back to the assassins HQ or just ride back or do some side missions which I shall get to 
 just now. The side missions are all the same "Save Citizen" what you get for it is different. Some 
 of them will result in help from vigilantes as I talked about briefly earlier. Basically they stop 
 and grab your pursuing guards and hold them while you break the line of sight and dash for a garden 
 hut or bail of hay. The other reward is help from the scholars where you can blend in the middle 
 of them and the guards simply step aside and let you into the mist heavily guarded and restricted 
 areas there are.
  
  HUD: The HUD or Head-Up-Display is quite confusing to begin with until you get into it. There is 
 the bit where it's like three lines together in a weird shape if its yellow okay run about if it's 
 red you must blend with A. If you run when it is red then the screen goes weird then the thing 
 will turn to a triangle almost but no connected that means guards are giving chase and can see 
 you if it remains the same but turns yellow then you have broke the line of sight jump in the nearest 
 bail of hay or garden roof hut. Wait for it to turn back to green then leave.
  
  Story: The story is good but rather confusing especially near the end. At the start you lose all 
 your equipment for knowing too much and breaking all three of the assassin's creed's rules. You 
 are stabbed and appear to be dead. You come out as do stuff as Desmond and sleep. Then you go back 
 in the Animus. (Which if you don't already know is the machine which takes memories from your ancestors 
 from your DNA!) You find out you are infact not dead.... obviously! You have though lost all your 
 equipment you must assassinate your marks to regain equipment and your loyalty. I won't go into 
 too much detail buy it or rent it to find out for your self.
  
  Summary: A great game worth every penny or cent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  When you first jump into the game you will be taken aback by the visuals. Detailed environments 
 and character models grace your screen and help to immerse you in the game. 
  
  The first time you scale a tall building and inititate the cinematic 360 degree panoramic view 
 you will most likely be quite impressed.
  
  When you get done oggling the view and decide to kill something without being noticed, you will 
 be left with the satisfying feeling only a great death animation can give. But stealth is not the 
 only way to go as you can draw your sword and have a hackfest with the nearest enemy.
  
  But once the initial awe goes away and you start into actually progressing through the game, does 
 the fun last?
  
  Quick answer: Fun to the end? Kinda sorta yea. Beyond that? Not really.
  Long answer: Read on.
  
  --
  
  GAMEPLAY
  You are given assassination targets which will 
 reside in one of the various different towns in the game.
  
  Once in the right area it is your job to gather enough information so you can assassinate your 
 target. Information is gathered by first climbing a "viewpoint" in the city which will reveal objectives 
 on your map. You may need to eavesdrop on a conversation, pickpocket someone or even interrogate 
 them for information. Once you have enough info... do the deed , move on to the next area and do 
 the same thing.
  
  It continues in this flow of "climb a viewpoint, complete objectives revealed by that viewpoint, 
 find another viewpoint" for pretty much the entire game and you'll find yourself doing the exact 
 same thing for your last assassination as you did for your first. 
  
  It is fun at first but leaves you feeling a little bit like there could have been more.
  
  
 Another thing is that being stealthy really isn't necessary for the bulk of the game. At first 
 it's fun to blend in and not be seen but after a while you realise that it is MUCH faster to just 
 sprint to your destination and either kill everything alerted to you or find a hiding spot nearby.
 
  
  The combat is fun, you can either sneak, start a brawl or kill via throwing knives from a distance. 
 There are some cool animations for counters and such but again the excitement wears off fast as 
 nothing new is introduced.
  
  Oh and it might be worth noting that the Achievements in general are quite easy, and may be an 
 easy way to get your first 100% in that area.
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  In two words: very nice. Excellent animation and detailing on the main character are huge in my 
 opinion and the developer's have clearly spent some time there. 
  
  The environments are beautiful and you get to see them from every angle as you may pass by them 
 on ground level or see them as you pounce from building to building.
  
  SOUND
  Sound is quite solid. Nice sounds when you stealth kill someone. There is always some citizen saying 
 something as you pass or some barker up on a platform yelling his beliefs which really helps the 
 atmosphere of the game.
  
  CONTROLS
  The controls flow well and are simple to get used to.
  
  The camera worked very well and will 
 never present itself as an annoying obstacle. The targeting system was ok but could get a little 
 cumbersome when trying to go for a particular enemy within a large group of them.
  
  VALUE
  For the amount of time it takes to finish and what it offers, Assassin's Creed isn't the 
 best value out there. You'll probably find no reason to revisit the game once you finish it save 
 for maybe going for some achievements you missed along the way. That being said, it WAS compelling 
 enough for me to want to get to the end without it feeling like a chore. 
  
  --
  
  So in the end it was a reasonably satisfying affair if not a bit short. I wouldn't have wanted 
 it longer in the form of "the same thing over again", but if the games breadth was a bit wider 
 it would have been nice.
  
  The best bet is to rent it first. If you don't finish it while you have it you will know exactly 
 how the rest of the game goes and can make your decision to buy from there. Aside from missing 
 the story there is no new gameplay to be found at later levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docprufessuh
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Look assassins creed is a good game with tons nice cities to explore and beautiful graphics. There 
 is a lot of good about this game but you can't fully enjoy until you get up to the third or fourth 
 memory block. It's one of those intimidating games and most of that reason is of the controls. 
 Once you get used to them this game can be pretty good.
  
  The Good
  ========
  -I've been playing a lot of games for years and not to say that I haven't seen types of games kind 
 of like this but no game that does it so well and with a unique twist
  -The platforming is really fun and your guy sticks to walls like Spider man
  -The graphics are 
 really amazing and voice acting is believable
  -Once the controls are gotten used to combat can get pretty fun
  -Huge open cities to explore 
 and search any way you want
  -The hidden blade is always fun to use
  
  The Bad
  =======
  -The game looks real nice especially when your climbing up buildings and getting info 
 on your assassination target but the game gets repetitive and even the environments do 
  -The collecting flags thing is really a waste
  -Sometimes situations of hiding from guards gets 
 annoying
  -like I've said controls can be intimidating at first
  -The stories secret is revealed within the first 20 minutes of the game
  
  Overally I think 
 assassins creed is a good game that a lot of people can enjoy once they get a hang of it. I also 
 really don't see that much replay value in this game though either. But you still have cities to 
 explore and people to assassinate. So from my point of view you can have fun with this game but 
 not for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrJackAttack
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I had decided it was the best looking game I have ever played. 
 The graphics are flawless in every way, there is nothing to complain about. The movements of the 
 main character, Altair are so fluid like and human that it hardly seems like you are playing a 
 game but controlling a real person. The sound is also perfect, the sounds of Altair climbing and 
 jumping sound very real as well as the mingling and trading going on in the streets... And you 
 can really hear the blood splatter. The only downside to this game that I can think of (unfortunately 
 it will ruin the game for many) is the repetitive nature of the storyline. 
  
  
  Why I don't like this game too much:
  
  You have 9 primary assassination targets that you must 
 eliminate one by one throughout the course of the game. Sadly you must go through the same set 
 of goals in order to reach them, after the 4th or 5th target is eliminated it starts to get a bit 
 dull once you realize its the same thing each time. Each time you start over on a new target you 
 get a new move or weapon, then you travel to a city of your choice and start tracking down your 
 target. This is where it gets repetitive. You must scale tall buildings to see your surroundings 
 and goals and then complete 3 or 4 to get to the target. The 3 or 4 goals consist of pickpocketing 
 useful information, evesdropping a couple of times to overhear plans or locations of the target, 
 and interrogating people in alleys to find out important information. After this has been done 
 you move on to the target itself which is usually heavily guarded, these seem to end with you chasing 
 them through the streets and then diving into their throat with a hidden dagger on your arm (just 
 as cool as it sounds) . Now all this may seem cool to you, if you find it cool then do it another 
 8 times and see how you feel. This game was ripe with potential and so much more could have been 
 done to expand upon the story and make it more versatile. If a sequel is in the works this is the 
 only thing they need to fix to make it the best game ever. 
  
  This truly is a well done game, that is without a doubt. I enjoyed the time I have spent on it, 
 sadly I doubt it will earn much more of my time and end up being trading in to Blockbuster within 
 a week. If you want to buy this game at least rent it first and play through a few of the assassinations 
 before you decide its truly worth it.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  Story - 9/10
  
  Replay Value - 3/10 : (
  
  RENT FIRST, Not a recommended 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has so many great qualities like stealth, the fighting techniques, and much more. This 
 is definetley a good game that every that has a 360 should pick up. If you cant afford it at this 
 moment, then just rent it. It is worth every penny. Although it does have a few minor flaws, but 
 otherwise it is a very good game.
  The Pros-Terrific graphics, a lengthy game, unbelievable how realistic this make look, outstanding 
 fighting and assasinations, and the ability to jump from one building to the next. While jumping 
 from place to place, you can climb up towers, jump onto little wood pieces hanging out of buildings, 
 swing on poles, and making the dramatic leap of faiths. 
  Cons-Nothing really except that hands still go through characters, and for a next gen game there 
 could have been a little more blood. Otherwise this a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulli1cj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a pretty good game. The world and models are very beautiful. The size 
 of the world is huge and makes you really feel like you are traveling to a distant city. However, 
 game play becomes boring, unless you are into flag finding! The horse jumping looks weird, though 
 horse animation has yet to satisfy me. As a future game developer, I can see some of the complexity 
 of playing animations and having them deal with static geometry. However, I can't even imagine 
 dealing with that problem. Since no real human would do a move that would trap them next to a wall, 
 let alone slam themselves into one. I think Ubisoft made a hard decision and that is what you get. 
 All I can say is, I bought the game to scale every wall and to tell you the truth.. I love it. 
 The seamless hand and foot positions is amazing!! Overall, Ubisoft did a great job, you pushed 
 that animation envelope in games and it worked for you. But I can't help to say that looks aren't 
 everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejok3r
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I'll start with a continuation of my complaining about getting sucked into hyped games 
 and being disappointed. Assassin's Creed was my second most desired game for this Holiday Season 
 (after Mass Disappointment) . 
  
  First, I'll admit I am completely biased when it comes to UbiSoft's games. I love almost all of 
 their games; but, I like to think I will call them out when they don't live up to what they have 
 proven they can do (Splinter Cell: Rogue Agent, etc) . 
  
  This game really stuck out when I first saw previews for it. I am a History major/nerd; I imagine 
 one can see why I would be interested in the concept this game presented. Exploring a relatively 
 accurate re-created world we may only see remains of, not as it once was=awesome (to me) . Combine 
 it with a Splinter Cell meets Prince of Persia, whoa, sounded/looked incredible. 
  
  Review:
  
  GRAPHICS-
  I really shouldn't have to say anything. They're incredible. Amazing, 
 wow/whoa! The thing most important in a game when considering the level of Visual quality (to me) 
 is the level of detail in "little things." Things most people overlook, aren't exactly pertinent 
 to the game itself.
  
  UbiSoft's visual team for Assassin's Creed paid a dang lot of attention to little things. The textures 
 of the buildings, the PLATES (the vendor's stands) !!! Damn! I was in Istanbul this past June, the 
 plates look just like that to this day (they sell them to we foolish tourists) , point being, the 
 game's plates look incredibly accurate. They could have toned them down quite a bit, and it wouldn't 
 have really mattered; but they went overboard, good indication of superior quality. Of course the 
 big things matter; they look great as well. These graphics pretty much eat Gears of War alive (for 
 the most part) . 
  
  SOUND-
  The sound is great. Whispers of wind at the top of the tower, the crowd, the war-mongers calling 
 for violence, the despair of people ruined by war. The sound is superb. I don't think much needs 
 to be said. 
  
  PRESENTATION-
  You travel via Genetic Memory in the footsteps of one of your forefathers. The Third Crusade. You're 
 a part of the Hashshashin sect, the "original" Assassin's. They don't exactly accurately portray 
 the sect as it was. They were Muslims, supposedly smoked the Hashish, met their end when the Mongols 
 came. 
  
  The fog of war surrounds you and your sect. You're a part of something too big for one man to accurately 
 comprehend. The game does give a good feel to this notion (for me, at least) .
  
  Each city is amazing. Each has it's own personality (I just agree with Gamespot's review) . The 
 architecture and people are different depending on where you are. The buildings are awesome, especially 
 the skyscrapers you may climb. UbiSoft did take time to re-create them much as they were, and I 
 say cheers to that. 
  
  The Genetic Memory thing is quite silly. If you're exploring his memory, how are you in position 
 to control it? That would be a time machine. I know we're supposed to ignore it, just pretend "ohh 
 well that's how it went and they're just recording it!"; but, come on! Far fetched, but I suppose 
 we humans have shown time after time we can convince ourselves the silliest of silly things are 
 somehow true/feasible. 
  
  GAMEPLAY/MISSIONS-
  This is what kills the game. The game lacks depth. They (developers) were able to present this 
 place in a long lost time; but, they were not able to expand upon it. 
  
  The missions are incredibly repetitive. It is a real pain having to travel rather far for very 
 little. I wanted the opportunity for unique action in different places (with different forms/varieties) . 
 You can travel through the cities, start a fight with a guard, save a citizen, what then? It isn't 
 very hard to kill all opposing guards, there aren't any rival assassins to fight. It'd be cool 
 if they had gangs to take on (I promise there was organized crime in those places in that time) , 
 it would have been cool to see that. 
  
  The combat system is very very lame. There's a problem if you can keep tapping "X" and win a fight. 
 That's all it boils down to. They try to make it more interesting with more options; but these 
 cheap add-ons did not satisfy me. The missions lack depth. Alright, I'll go sit on a bench and 
 listen as I gain "intelligence," then some moron at the local Assassin's bureau will explain what 
 it means, then I go tap "X" all I can for "the kill."
  
  The AI SUCKS! It is overly simple. It doesn't deserve elaboration. I think the problem was their 
 trying to put a whole living city together and allow it to function on it's own. It is incredibly 
 difficult to write software like this. I understand why it falls short, but that doesn't stop my 
 wishing for it to be much more, like they said it was going to be. They over-extended themselves, 
 in my opinion. It will take a lot of work to expand much upon the open environment layout. 
  
  CONCLUSION/RANT-
  
  I can't exactly say what is missing; I had the feeling the whole time 
 there could have been so much more. I found myself wishing it were an RPG, they created all of 
 these "worlds," teased you with RPG like functions (horse riding or fast travel, etc.) . It would 
 be cool to talk to the vendors, buy new swords, perhaps have some way of designing your own weapon 
 for forging. It would be cool to shoot a bow and arrow, things of that nature. 
  
  I see a change in the way games are made. This game blurs line between action games and RPGs. When 
 you create these huge open ended environments, people are going to want more than simple action 
 sword fights. In the past only portions of these cities (or perhaps only certain streets) would 
 be the place you could explore, that was that, we accepted it; this is no longer the case. People 
 are naturally going to wish there is more to do, when there is so much to explore. 
  
  THE TEMPLARS DO NOT BELONG IN MUSLIM CITIES! WTF is up with that!? The Knights of Templar did not 
 chill in cities that were controlled by the Muslims in the Third Crusade, sorry, just did not happen; 
 they would be slaughtered if they were discovered. I saw Muslim guards come help a Templar fight 
 me! AI issues again, stab at common sense. 
  
  
  ***I have to touch on how everyone is saying this is where the Next Gen really begins, I agree, 
 and I strongly disagree at the same time. ***
  
  Assassin's Creed is a half next generation game. The presentation is Next Gen without a doubt in 
 my mind. There needs to be more to it though. I see in this generation of gaming, with the advent 
 of HDTV's for consoles, people are eager to say screw gameplay/substance for glamor. I do not care 
 how great a game looks, if there is not a real game underneath the pretty picture, it is overrated. 
 
  
  
  True Next Gen gaming will combine graphics like this (times 5) with a Wii-like control scheme. 
 It is the future. We will be more integrated in the game. Combine a 360's graphical power (multiply 
 it by 5) , a higher definition (than HDTV, which really is now just "standard," and yes they exist, but 
 are not affordable yet) television, RPG interface, you've got the real deal Assassin's Creed, and 
 welcome to the real Next Gen. This is the Half Next Gen we're in now, powered by graphics, not 
 so much gameplay. 
  
  I wouldn't buy this game again if I had the choice. I love it and hate it. It's not as big a disappointment 
 to me as Mass Effect and Halo 3; but, it falls very short of where most people wind up after riding 
 the furious winds of the HYPE. Rent it, wait for the sequal, then rent that. Sorry this was so 
 long to whomever made it down here. Take it easy fellas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bone3593
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a great game from start to finish. From jumping from building to building to 
 using counter attacks it never gets old. It can be a bit repetitive but it is still an enjoyable 
 game. Assassins Creed is a great game because, amazing visuals, interesting story, and fun but 
 a bit repetitive gameplay.
  
  First off lets get to the best part of Assassins Creed, the visuals. Everything from the lighting 
 to character animation is top notch. There is a pop in problem mostly while riding on a horse, 
 but the reason, the amount of people on the map, makes up for it. The counter attacks look awesome 
 and sometimes very brutal. It is very rewarding when you see a counter attack in motion. When you 
 climb on a building and see the whole city it is amazing. Next I am going to talk about the story. 
 The story is a bit strange in Assassins Creed. You play as a man named Altair who was demoted after 
 a foolish move made by himself. You must assassinate nine men to become a full assassin again. 
 You play as a man named Altair who was demoted after a foolish move made by himself. You must assassinate 
 nine men to become a full assassin again. You also play as another man in the future. These scientists 
 are looking into your DNA to find out where Altair hid a treasure. There are many twists in this 
 story one at the very beginning and one at the very end. The voice acting was poorly done though 
 which also affected the story The story wasn't bad but the ending was annoying and I was confused 
 at some parts of the story. Last lets talk about gameplay. The gameplay in Assassins Creed is very 
 entertaining but very repetitive. You spend a good deal of your time doing investigations on your 
 target. These can be boring but you usually have to do two or three to move on to the assassination. 
 The assassinations are the best part of the gameplay thinking about how you should kill your unfortunate 
 friend. The combat is very fun and you feel really powerful especially doing counter moves. My 
 favorite part of game though was climbing and jumping on buildings. The controls to do these things 
 are perfect. It doesn't matter what system you have you need to get this game. Everything is top 
 notch from graphics to the story. The sound might not be the greates and it may be a bit repetitive 
 but the best parts about the game make up for that. Just go out and buy the game, you won't be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmonsP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  Before the release of this game the hype was huge, just about everyone was made excited about this 
 game. We were told the numerous things we could do, the numerous ways we could kill people and 
 so on.
  
  I can tell you that this game does not live up to its hype, it is not as good as it was made out 
 to be. Lots of parts of the game are very repetitive which lets this game down. There are four 
 ways to gain information about your assassination target, eaves drop (which is basically sitting 
 on a bench.... how fun..) , interrogation (basically beat someone up until a sort of cut-scene) , informer (which 
 is killing a number of guy or collecting flags in a certain time) and pickpocketing (which is on 
 the whole very easy) . They way these happen never changes, these things always happen the same. 
 On top of this you have no control over how you actually finish off your assassination target, 
 one you have been fighting your target and his health gets low enough you will automatically stab 
 him and then watch a cut-scene.
  
  However those things may have been a let down this game isn't all bad. The game actually takes 
 place in the present world and you are a man called Desmond. You are held hostage at a company 
 called "Abstergo" who have a machine called the "Animus" which allows you to relive the life of 
 your ancestor and they are making you do this to gain information about something you want. The 
 story is very good however the main characters voice-acting is a let down.
  
  The graphics are astonishing and so is the atmosphere of the cities. The detail on the character 
 models, the textures and lighting is all perfect. In the cities you will see dust blowing around 
 the ground, people begging for money, drunks pushing people about, market sellers shouting saying 
 their items are the cheapest, people preaching its all great. When you kill a guard its even better, 
 the people scream very loud and run for their lives, it is also funny to hear them do this when 
 you through a dead guards body off a roof-top.
  
  Now the game-play and in the most part does not disappoint. Apart from the minor missions to get 
 information the game-play is good, running around roof tops is great fun and is a bit like crackdown 
 in that sense. In order to escape guards you need to find somewhere to hide and this is another 
 disappointing feature about this game. First you need to break the guards line of sight, which 
 is fair enough and then you need to hide. Now heres the bad part, you can only hide in a selection 
 of 4 places, In a roof top thing, a bundle of hay, blend with scholars or sit on a bench... thats 
 it thats the only 4. So when you break the guards line of sight you have to run about looking for 
 one of these places to hide... There are other things you can do throughout the game which are 
 collecting all types of flags (a bit like crackdown with the orbs) , save citizens who are being 
 harassed by the guards, go up and take a view from very high points.
  
  Overall this game was way over-hyped, however it is still a good game even though it is a bit of 
 a let down that it does not live up to its hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  there are some games that from the first step of making, flash and draw the players to play in their 
 minds before the coming of the game;
  this game is these ones;
  assassin's creed is a game of reality and non-reality, a game of existence and non-existence, a game 
 of be assassin or be victim;
  assassin' s creed is about ALTAIR (you) , from the low class assassin to leader of creed;
  everything 
 is perfect; gameplay is hot, graphic is amazing and your in right place in right time;
  AI is clever, mountains are beautiful, your are strong and faster than winds, sky is same az real 
 one in reality, the world in game is vast, guards are smart, citys are alive and sensetive;
  the air is fresh and make you to breath and refresh yourself;
  this game is not a game only, it 
 is reality in real world; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hibashira
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Action, adventure, role-playing, etc. are old game classifications. AC is in a category in its 
 own. In AC, an assassin hides in the open, blends with the crowd, kills unnoticed or by counter 
 offensive moves. It is not a stealth game in the sense of, say, Metal Gear Solid or Thief since 
 shadow and darkness are not needed. It is not an action game in the sense of, say, Crackdown or 
 Halo since brute force never works. In the end, those that master the game must play the character 
 like an assassin. From that angle, the game delivered 100%.
  
  However, the game play mechanics also assumed that you are a good person. You are rewarded for 
 saving the innocents and punishing the wicked by means of assistance from the game world inhabitants. 
 In that sense, you really aren't making any choices of good (exposing yourself to save people) 
 vs evil (concealing yourself and leave them be) . Instead, you are making choices of whether you 
 want to play it easy or play it hard. In that regard, it made your choices less relevant to the 
 story. That is a definite minus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaRaRandy123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is an overall 9.5 in my book. The jumping and climbing of buildings is wonderful and 
 the combat is killer. But sometimes the other things are annoying. Like sitting on the bench listening 
 to people, waiting for the meter to go down so the guards are off of you, and getting flags. The 
 game overall is wonderful and I love to play it when I have time. It is really fun and you can 
 play for hours, unless you get so annoyed, you play something else. I don't like how there is no 
 Xbox Lve though. It is great to play through again, but you want to play with people sometimes 
 and that would make this game even more amazing. The replay value is the highest I've seen to date 
 along with Mass Effect for the 360. I don't reccommend renting only, as it is very fun to start 
 again. You beat it then immediately start it again. I reccommend playing on the easiest level first 
 and then Building your way up so you don't play it on hard, then play it on hard, then- play it 
 on hard. You catch my drift? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I have so much to say about this game and i dont know where to start. Ok... lets talk about the 
 story line first. For those of you who haven't had the pleasure of playing this game yet, fear 
 not, i will not put any spoilers in it. The story has a good plot and some nice twist's in it and 
 If you follow it closely it can be pretty interesting. Some people have commented that the game 
 can get repitative and i can see what they mean but once you enjoy what you are doing then that 
 repetitiveness disappears. 
  
  The graphics are fantastic and everything looks almost like you are playing an actual movie. The 
 background music suits this game perfectly and gives you this feeling that you are actually in 
 that time period. Overall i would have to say that i was very pleased with the quality of this 
 game.
  
  The A. I was not the absolute best but it was very good. Some of the characters were annoying but 
 whether they were meant to be like that or not i dont know. As for the guards and Templars, i have 
 to say that they were incredible when it came to their movements, fighting skills and just the 
 way they patrolled in general. I was not impressed with the way the horse moved at all. That was 
 the worst part of the game for me. 
  
  The search for Flags and Templars gives you something extra to do if you just want to stray off 
 of the main mission and there are also other side missions to keep you occupied. Also the cities 
 are fantastic and very well developed and detailed. 
  
  Finally.... the main reason i bought this game (besides the fact that i love RPG's of this nature) 
 was for the free roaming and the reality of the game. This game is perfect in that aspect. I spent 
 hours just exploring and looking for items and defeating Templars and the main mission itself can 
 take you a little while to complete so this game gives you loads to do. If you are thinking about 
 buying this game then stop thinking and go get it. Its Worth It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed has to be one of the best games to come out in the past 5 years. Everthing about 
 the game is done with beauty and style. Cities in the game are very detailed and very open ended. 
 The different towns you visit are pretty much the same in the core but each have a distinct feel 
 to them. Combat in the game is awesome, being able to take on hordes of gaurds is very entertaining. 
 The score and visuals are fantastic with the only slight bumps being in the "lab" scenes. Really 
 the only real issue that some might take up with Assassin's is the story. At first your not really 
 sure what the heck is going on but towards the it all comes together perfectly. Thats when the 
 problem kicks in... Just when you think you got eveything sort of figured out the game leaves you 
 high and dry. You do get a sense that nothing was really resolved (like the Halo 2 feeling) . Other 
 than that misfotune this game is gold and is a must have for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0felixis0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  For me Assassins Creed was a big disappointment. Everyone was talking about it that it's amazing 
 and all. I then bought it and at the beginning it was all WoW but then like after the 3rd assassination 
 its just the same until the second last assassination.= (
  
  The graphics of Assassins Creed are just great. You can interact with everything in Altair's world, 
 it's so cool!!! The fighting becomes after a while boring because you only need to press X and 
 thats it. The storyline is very interesting at the beginning but then its just becomes the same, 
 you get a mission, you get information of your target and then you finally you can go and kill 
 your target.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalDeath101
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  To start, my main point in playing a video game is for its story. Without a story a game is just 
 like hitting a tennis ball against a wall. Can be fun for a short time, but after awhile, meh. 
 The gameplay is very excellent, it makes running around roof tops and fighting enemies easy while 
 simultaneously looking very theatrical in execution. Certainly a great game to watch, but that's 
 where it ends. There are really two story lines in the game, the 2012 future, and the Crusades 
 era past. You technically get to play within both, but the prior is simply walk around and listen 
 to people talk about things without context. Essentially, I found myself caring more about what 
 was going on in the 2012 world's story more than what was happening with Altiare. The game was 
 fun, and certainly had its moments, but there needed to be more context for this to be a great 
 game.
  
  Summary:
  The game could have been amazing if the story was there, taking the two characters and combining 
 their stories more intuitively would have created a game worthy of a 9.0. If you play through the 
 first two assassinations, you've played the entire game already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidus4444
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  I bought the game a few days after it came out and couldn't wait to play it. I was hyped for this 
 game for quite some time. I must say the beginning is actually really cool and interesting. I won't 
 spoil it for you, but it will definitely keep you on the, "oh wow, this game is amazing" track 
 for awhile, but not for long. 
  After the whole intro, you are put into the shoes of an Assassin. The controls are innovative by 
 trying to let the player control whether you want to be in regular mode, where you don't look suspicious, 
 or by going into action mode where you'll find yourself running like a mad man, and pouncing onto 
 walls and scaling up buildings like it's the easiest thing in the world. At first, this sounds 
 like a lot of fun, and it is a lot of fun. Climbing up buildings feels very good and easy. Pretty 
 much anything you see can be jumped onto. This is fun for a while, but then it just gets annoying. 
 "Look at him... Why is he doing that.... I would never do that.... He's crazy." The voice work 
 for the common folk is terrible. It's extremely annoying and will make you say, shut the #@$% 
 up more than once." Every time you go into action mode and run through a crowd or jump up a building 
 someone will always say the same five or six things over and over again. The graphics are great 
 in this game. The cities look realistic as do the player models. One problem i had with the graphics 
 is that there are a lot of pop-ins. what this means is that when you are cruising around a city, 
 or landscape there will be bushes, shadows, and other things that will just randomly appear... 
 it's not that big of a problem, i mean every game pretty much has this problem and it's understandable 
 that the generation of gaming hasn't beaten that problem yet. Not to the fighting... I found that 
 you will either love it, or hate it. I hated it. I found it to be very boring and too simple. It's 
 kinda the same with running around, you have action mode or normal mode... but when your fighting 
 you'll be want to be in action mode. It's kind of like rock paper scissors. You have to wait until 
 the enemy strikes then right as he has finished his attack and swing at him. You do this until 
 all the enemies are dead... It's just boring. the side missions aren't that fun either... You'll 
 go into your map and see that there's people in need of help... so you go over to them and just 
 fight off enemies, and each time you win you will almost always get the same response from the 
 victim ( with a different sound over; male or female.) My favorite part of the game are the animations. 
 I found them to be very well done and they really grabbed my attention. notably the best animations 
 are in your main character. When you put him into action mode and run through the city with the 
 wrist blade out it looks .. dangerous. 
  
  This game isn't a bad game. It's also not an innovative game, or that much fun either. Although 
 I didn't beat the game, I got a very good taste of Assassin's Creed and that was all I needed. 
 If your looking for a game to buy this holiday season and you just purchased a PS3 then by all 
 means get this game. But if you own a 360 there are MUCH better games out on the market right now 
 that deserve your attention. 
  
  Hope this review helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game. The realization of three absolutely vast and beautiful cities 
 as well as stunning character animations. The game is the best looking game on consoles. But like 
 every game today it has its flaws. The visuals, the player movement, the world that was created 
 for this game is amazing. But what is not amazing is the quests. The assassination part is really 
 very small, infact its like 10-15% of the whole game. The game consists of investigation to find 
 out where your target is located & that is where it is simply a let down. The reason being you 
 are doing the same quest for every assassination & it becomes rather a boring process half-way 
 through. The story of Altair is good but the futuristic twist sucks big time. Its confusing and 
 it doesn't resolve into anything by the end of the game. 
  On the other hand who ever designed the game world should be given a medal of honour. The world 
 is amazingly beautiful and detailed. You really don't need a HUD to play this game. It has this 
 cinematic feel to it. The game has good length, clocking just around 12-15 hours. It has a lot 
 of wow moments, but at the same time when you have to do the investigation and stuff it becomes 
 dull. 
  Climbing the city is soo soo much fun. I wish I could say the same for the combat. The combat is 
 not very engaging, don't expect a God of War type of combat from this game. Its a hybrid of action 
 & stealth. One button combat is a nice combat but at the same time it becomes way to easy once 
 you get counter attacks. The game is way too easy.
  In the end its not the type of game that is released every month. Its a gem, a flawed gem perhaps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ado202
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  I'll be the first to admit that when I saw the first Assassin's Creed trailer many months ago, 
 I thought it would be the next great single-player game. And up until the minute I got it on pre-order 
 and played it, I still believed it. But contrary to what I had hoped for, and far from what I still 
 want to admit, I was extremely let down.
  
  As you've probably already heard, the visuals of this game are pretty incredible. The cities all 
 look very cool and many aerial camera shots enhance this. In addition, the entire Crusaders time 
 frame is gripping, which attracted me to the game to begin with. But this is about where the fascination 
 ends.
  
  The game does have some initial grab to it, once you get past the shocking and very stupid story 
 line. The first few assassinations are fun and wandering about the city streets and rooftops in 
 the impressive freerun is entertaining. But it doesn't take long for you to realize that every 
 assassination is the same. A combination of sub-missions gathering information prior to your actual 
 "hit" are no different from one assassination to the next. Not only that, but the information gathered 
 has really no actual use, considering you can pretty much run in and take out any target on the 
 first try. (With some exceptions)
  
  They had I good Idea for a game with this one, it's just too bad how this one turned out. I would 
 highly recommend renting this one and beating it in the one week you have it, because trust me 
 thats all you'll need. And with no multiplayer options, having a copy after you beat it seems like 
 a mistake. A mistake I made, and hope nobody else does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewjiml
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Granted there are FAIR worse games out there than Assassins Creed but nonetheless this game was 
 the BIGGEST letdown of any game I have ever played. After booting up my Xbox, I was excited to 
 actually get my hands on this game that I have been patiently waitng for years. I had been trying 
 to rent it forever but hell, since everyone and their mother wants a copy, I said what the frick, 
 I'll just buy it. Went to Best Buy. Went home. Played the game for five hours. Traded in the game 
 at Gamestop for $35. Let me express my Disdain I had for this game the minute I booted it up. I 
 was expecting a game that would define COOL, something missing in video games these days. Sure 
 you can scale huge buildings and tops (which is the coolest part of the game by the way) . You can 
 also go through a two hour long tutorial in the beginning, for all the retards out there who cant 
 figure out how to play a new game. Eventually, after ten monologues, explaining the hypocrisy of 
 this assassins creed, you are treated to a guy with a lame American accent in an assassins body 
 from the Crusade Era. Hmm. The voice acting is top notch too from our alleged protagonist. He sounds 
 more believable than Arnold Schwarzenegger getting pregnant in Junior. Probably the lamest thing 
 about this game is that instead of fleshing out a story directly from the Crusades, we all have 
 to believe this scientific breakthrough, that some bartender, formerly a hitman or whatever, has 
 ancestors who were assassins, and that some machine can retrospect all his ancestors exploits. 
 Durrrr. And the worst part is we have to sit through this crap for a good hour before we actually 
 get into the game. And to remind us of this crap, there are sporatic disorientations of the screen 
 to say, "Hey, you aren't really immersed in this world, its all in some guys head." Whenever you 
 lock onto a guard or soldier, the same thing happens. it looks as if its something from the Matrix. 
 Lame? Yes. Keanu Reeves isnt in this one. Are all the missions the same? Sure. Go to the highest 
 point. Jump into a stack of hay. Getting chased by guards? Just go hide in the million spots located 
 conventiently ALL around the map, and the guards will simply forget. Kill this person. Save this 
 citizen. Repeat. And rinse. I wish there was a bit more combat in this potentially awesome game 
 than doing a mission where you have to eavesdrop, and sit on a bench for about five minutes. Theres 
 are more repetitve patterns here than Tetris blocks, many which are simply put not FUN. Maybe I 
 missed out. Maybe the middle and last half of this game rocked. Maybe the programmers spent to 
 much time trying to figure out how Atlair is supposed to climb every building in the game. I don't 
 know. But ones things for sure: biggest disappointment. EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, Assassin's Creed has absolutely beautiful graphics and great controls. The battle 
 system is also great. But some of the great stealth things you really want to do end up being lame 
 sense you can go up behind somebody and stab them then walk away and non of the civilians react 
 at all even if there right infront of you. Sometimes they do, but sometimes it seems way too easy. 
 Sometimes also when you are riding your hourse fast, they try to kill you! Seriously, All I did 
 was go fast! But besides all of that, Assassin's Creed really surprised me. It was great.
  
  THE STORY
  
  it's great. it's around the medieval times in Jerusalem, Demasca, ect. ect. 
 atleast thats what u think! (SPOILERS) your actually in present time in a machine built by this 
 scientist to go back in time using your ancestors memories from hundreds of years ago. (SPOLERS 
 END)
  
  THE BATTLE SYSTEM
  
  it's live action. it could get repetetive to some players cuz u basicly press X to slash then B 
 to push somebody but later there are combos which makes it more intresting. there are lots of weapons 
 and fun stealthy things during battle as well. you can also ride horseys!
  
  Prince of persia meets ninja gaiden meets oblivion meets thief
  
  THE FEEL
  
  It's just 
 plain fun to be blantly honest. it's huge like i said about the oblivion thing. the towns are awesome 
 to explore and you can tell they took ALOT of time to make this game. I'de say rent it. if you 
 love it then buy it i can't stop ya. I don't think I will be buying it. It WAS a great rental though. 
 Don't miss out. br / 
  
  don't worry about any annoying controls cuz they are simple and easy to get used to. the graphics 
 are amazing. The AI can sometimes be annoying and dumb but the game is a masterpeice in my oppinion 
 cuz it's just amazing to say in one word. You will enjoy your time in Assassin's Creed. From climbing, 
 to blending in to avoid guards, and assassinating people. Assassin's Creed gets an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I'd classify it as sandbox, like GTA or Crackdown, there are plenty of opportunities to run around 
 and start fights, but if you follow the storyline, a lot of the same things are repeated throughout 
 the game, but that in it essence is part of the sandbox genre. You get this great big interactive 
 world to play in, but a lot of the actions of individuals and quests are repeated or very similar 
 in order to help the developers create such a large world.
  
  Assassins Creed is an new take on a genre that previously has been run around and kill lots of 
 enemies, I like the fact that you can emply stealth to accomplish your missions. I like the simplicity 
 of the controls, whilst also being complicated, it get's straight to the point of what you need 
 them to do in given scenarios, for example, you would never need jump when trying to hide, so they 
 change function of it to help you to hide.
  
  You are required to level up, but these are dependent on the stages, not your experience with in 
 a game, and with these levels, you gain new abilities, which is probably a good thing, given that 
 if you were to try take everything in in one go, you would most likely dub it too hard, put the 
 controller down and walk away if you were a novice.
  
  I find combat to be a little easy. You could just straight out attack, but if you are patient, 
 you get a lot less damage from using counters, and you attain a victory over your opponents much 
 more easily. I haev to earn more combat techniques yet, but I hop I get a bit more variety to add 
 to what I currently have.
  
  All in all I find the game quite entertaining, and coming off a game like Mass Effect, i find that 
 I am qquite the completionist with this one, I have been doing all side missions in a given city 
 as well as rescuing all citizens just for the fun of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Assassin's Creed. Its a great game, that brushes with perfection, only to 
 be hindered near the end with a balancing issue that pissed many a friend of mine off. In an attempt 
 to remember Gamespot's old review criteria, I will judge it through that. 
  
  Gameplaywise, its a perfect 10. The fluid controls and great story that sucks you in only compliment 
 the gorgeous graphics. 
  
  Speaking of Graphics, the ones showcased in Assassin's Creed are the cream of the crop. Going along 
 with the near-photorealistic visuals, the constant 60 fps framerate is astounding. It made Mass 
 Effect feel all the clunkier when I played it later the week after. The only shot against the graphics 
 would be the visual character models on the AI, though that can be forgiven due to the fact that 
 very rarely does a game's AI get a graphical overhaul. 
  
  As far as sound goes, this game again is next to none. When I hear the sounds of a medieval city 
 come to life, I nearly died from the insanity. I could go on, but I will leave you with this: I 
 would buy this game solely for the sound alone.
  
  Replay value is high even with a lack of multiplayer, just by the sheer number of ways you could 
 do something. And those damn addicting flags that are scattered throughout each of the 3 cities.
 
  
  So overall, this game is perfect in nearly every way. I only gave it a 9.5 due to it going from 
 fairly easy to dead hard almost instantaneously, which is a bad enough balance issue to tear a 
 few casual gamers away. But overall I recommend this to anyone with an XBOX 360 or a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed has the best character interactions I have ever seen to date in a video game. there 
 are very, very few instences where I saw someone, or something magicly pass through a character 
 (other than my sword that is) the crowed and other NPC's act and respond like real people would. 
 shoulders turn as you squeeze your way through a crowd, and fall over if you bump them sprinting 
 by. the fighting while simple, is very rewarding in the many different kill combos there are to 
 watch. sometimes though i did not feel quite like the uber super assassin i was supposed to be, 
 this is mostly because anywhere i could get to the guards could get to also. yes i understand the 
 game would be way to easy, but it should at least appear harder for them to get to the tops of 
 roofs... especially with all that armor. I also felt that there could have been a little less repetition 
 with the finding of view points and saving citizens. it just could have been... more. but gameplay 
 really is not hindered by this too too much. and the final assassination missions are completely 
 worth it. Finally the story could have been beefed up more, as fun as it is to run around slaying 
 guards by the handful... nothing beats a killer story. and there was TONS of potential... the least 
 we can hope for is a sequal that will keep the formula, tweak a few things and really give us an 
 indepth story. I give it a 9. because it has next to prefect graphics, amazing and believable audio/voice 
 acting, its just plain fun, BUT story was lacking and it does get kinda repetitive at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Assassin's Creed has been one of the most hyped games for the past year. Now that 
 it is finally out, the question on the minds of those who have yet to play it is, "was it worth 
 the wait"? Well, it is a good game with a beautiful presentation, but there still is much to be 
 desired.
  
  If you've been hiding under a rock then the odds are you know very little about Assassin's Creed 
  otherwise you probably have a general idea of what it is all about. Basically, it is a stealth 
 action game in which you take the role of an assassin called Altair. It is set during the Crusades, 
 so combat consists mainly of sword fighting. You also have the opportunity to quickly and quietly 
 put someone down with a retractable blade that is positioned on your wrist. There is a pretty major 
 twist to the whole story, which I will refrain from saying in case you are unaware at this point. 
 Oddly enough, you find out this major story telling element as soon as you start playing, which 
 seems a bit odd, considering how much better it could have made the game if the designers didn't 
 reveal the secret to you until you were done playing. Anyhow, the story in Assassin's Creed is 
 pretty well done, although there are a few questionable elements which may have worked better if 
 they were tackled in different ways and at different times.
  
  One of the nicest feelings you get out of playing Assassin's Creed is the sheer scope of your mobility. 
 You can climb every building you see, virtually as high as you can see and you can move nearly 
 everywhere you see. One major exception to this otherwise open-movement philosophy is the lack 
 of mobility in water. How assassins are incapable of swimming is absolutely well beyond me! It 
 is a horrible decision that was made because it completely contradicts the essence of free movement. 
 Fortunately, there is very little water in the game, so it is only going to get on your nerves 
 for a brief period of time.
  
  Most of the time, you will want to do your dirty work incognito. There are many ways to act covert, 
 even if this is the feudal ages. You can blend in with scholars by gesturing your hands in the 
 prayer position, sit on a bench, and you can roll in a nice pile of hay. Of course, hay is located 
 all around the game, and it always tends to be conveniently located in places you'll need it. Instead 
 of taking care of your immediate objectives right of the bat (each of your assassinations) , you 
 need to spend a good deal of time  in fact most of the time  gathering information before you 
 strike. If you need a simple metaphor to help you visualize how this game takes place, just think: 
 Tenchu meets the Crusades.
  
  Of course, Assassin's Creed plays quite a bit differently than Tenchu, and is leaps and bounds 
 ahead in terms of graphics. There's almost no debate - the most attractive feature of Assassin's 
 Creed are its breathtaking visuals. This amazing visual monument contains some of the most stunning 
 graphics ever seen on any platform - from highly detailed, and authentic looking settings, to fluid 
 looking cloth animations (for the most part) . Altair wears a fluid and nearly life-like outfit 
 that flows with movement, and flags throughout the kingdom ripple in the wind as one would expect 
 in the real world. Enemies even twitch and spasm, as they are lying on the ground before death's 
 sweet embrace. The world of Assassin's Creed is painted beautifully with high resolution textures, 
 and nearly everything looks spectacular. Well, that is with the exception of water  once again 
 water is not the high point of Assassin's Creed, as it is quite dull and stagnant looking. Aside 
 from that, everything is animated superbly, and the tremendous amount of attention to detail is 
 remarkable.
  
  The character models are all sculpted with a strong sense of style and polish, and clearly represent 
 the era and region they derive from. Surprisingly, lip synchronization is also well done, with 
 a few less common exceptions. There are thousands upon thousands of NPCs throughout the kingdom, 
 though realistically, most are only there for show and to make escaping through the streets more 
 of a challenge. Far fewer actually have any real importance in the game, though every person walking 
 the streets enhances the environment, even if they are not as finely detailed as the more significant 
 figures you encounter. Needless to say, it is quite obvious that much more attention has been paid 
 to the design of Altair, than any of the other characters in the game. Those who have roles in 
 the main story also look considerably better than the masses you encounter on the streets, but 
 still are nowhere near as sleek and polished as Altair.
  
  Nonetheless, there are hordes of civilians spread throughout each of the main three cities, Acre, 
 Damascus and Jerusalem, which really gives you a sense of the size and life of such thriving outposts 
 of civilization. It's a nice change to see so much life in capital cities, since many games tend 
 to throw in a scarce number of citizens and want you to believe the city is a booming metropolis. 
 In Assassin's Creed, you actually get the sense of the scale of these regions, and just how lively 
 many ancient communities were.
  
  Each of the three cities is broken into three separate districts, rich, poor and middle, although 
 I often found myself having a hard time distinguishing between each. I was a bit surprised to see 
 roughly the same looking people and similar looking buildings throughout all of the districts. 
 Several times I couldn't help but thinking that the variations between the classes were miniscule 
 at most, as I would expect to see much more of a contrast between the architecture of the rich 
 and poor districts. Sadly, there didn't seem to be that distinction, and if distinction is there 
 it is so negligible you may not even notice it.
  
  My biggest gripe is that there are so few variations among the NPCs walking the streets. The developers 
 created roughly 10-20 different character models for civilians (for each city) and "copied and 
 pasted" those everywhere, which means when you turn the corner you may run into a guy you just 
 saw seconds ago. Even worse are the more rare occasions in which you can see two characters, which 
 look absolutely identical, conversing with one another! More variety with the appearance of the 
 citizens would have greatly increased the level of realism and allowed for the player to more easily 
 assimilate into this virtual world. It's a bit hard to take your surroundings seriously when you 
 are seeing the same people everywhere. Though, in all fairness, this has often been a problem with 
 even the most highly regarded games - a sad sight this gamer has hoped developers would have overcome 
 by now.
  
  Fortunately, Assassin's Creed boasts the most professional motion capturing and choreography ever 
 seen in gaming, which rivals even the best Hollywood has to offer. Every swing of a blade, or punch 
 in the gut is amazingly integrated into the most fluid and realistic movement I have ever seen 
 in a game. And, as you climb atop builds to escape, every reach actually grasps onto a small object 
 or crevice in the structure  a feat very few other games take the time to orchestrate realistically.
 
  
  While not as much of a feast for the senses, the sounds are not half-bad. The music features a 
 variety of middle-eastern sounds which fit the theme perfectly. As things heat up, the music becomes 
 much more intense letting you know you're in a battle  in case you didn't get the clue by the 
 guards hacking away at you for some reason. The sound of swords clashing is awesome, and it even 
 varies so you aren't hearing the same sound clip over and over for each clash of metal. The voice 
 acting is generally pretty well done, though sometimes only mediocre. It's a pity that everyone 
 seems to emit an accent except for our protagonist, Altair. A more serious problem with the voice-overs 
 is that you end up hearing the same one-liners repeatedly, which can really begin to get on your 
 nerves. But at least something is present and they don't just stare you in the face. I found myself 
 often feeling that the game was missing ambience and sounds to create the feeling of being in one 
 of these cities. With so many people and markets everywhere, you rarely hear people talking (for 
 how many there are) and you don't get the sensation of all the hustle and bustle around you. With 
 so much liveliness surrounding you, it should only be expected that sounds envelope you from all 
 the commotion of busy urban life. Since there is so much to see, you naturally only come to expect 
 to hear just as much.
  
  And much to see their definitely is. The line of sight is incredible, especially when you scale 
 to one of the many view points throughout the Kingdom. When you get to the top of a view point 
 and swan dive downward towards a pile of hay - it's definitely a sight to see. Some of the views 
 are breathtaking, although there does tend to be occasional slow down and tearing from time to 
 time. Oddly enough, the slow down seems to come at almost random times and not necessarily just 
 because you are up high looking throughout the city. Screen tearing, while also sporadic, occurs 
 almost twice as often as frame rate lag, although neither of these are to the point that they really 
 interfere with game play. The camera can also be a bit of a booger occasionally, and it always 
 seems to cause problems during combat. An object may obstruct your view by being present in the 
 foreground and anything behind it, including you or your enemies, will become hidden. It doesn't 
 happen very often, but I did find myself cursing at the camera at least a few times.
  
  Combat is incredibly intense and fairly balanced too, I might add. When you start off the game, 
 and your health is at a minimum, you run the risk of being killed almost as much as the chances 
 of you killing. Obviously, once you get a hang of how the combat works, things will start to shape 
 up in your favor. I never would have imagined, but I absolutely love the combat in Assassin's Creed, 
 because it not only is a well balanced composition of skill, timing and patience, but because of 
 how well orchestrated every swing and blow is. If you are impatient you may not like Assassin's 
 Creed too much, because this is not a button-smasher. You need to time all your moves out properly 
 and think before you act, otherwise, you are not going to be too happy with the consequence. There 
 is a considerably large emphasis on timing and pace in the battles that you will encounter, and 
 if you can't keep that it mind and can't wait for the right times to strike you will be one of 
 the corpses lying on the ground people are freaking out over.
  
  I welcome the combat system, because of how finely tuned it was towards practicing timing and rhythm. 
 It's nice to play a game where you can't just hopelessly smash down all the buttons hoping to win. 
 I have to admit, when I first played Assassin's Creed, I was pretty bad, but towards the end of 
 the game I could take on 20 or more guards while taking only a scratch. In other words: practice 
 makes perfect! Unlike other action, and even role playing, games that guide the skill balance based 
 on handicaps (the AI's attack power, speed, etc) , Assassin's Creed seems to only increase the number 
 of foes you have to deal with, which is a much more welcome direction than pitting you against 
 ridiculously difficult enemies. Unless you are a train wreck when it comes to playing games, your 
 skill should increase as you play, so an increased number of enemies as you progress is not a big 
 deal.
  
  Of course, occasionally, there may be more guards than you can deal with, or you simply may not 
 be up for a fight. Whatever the reason might be; if you need to get away from your pursuers be 
 prepared for an amazing getaway. If you have seen Assassin's Creed in action, you were probably 
 impressed with how awesome looking and incredibly intense the chase scenes are. You do your best 
 to climb to the highest point you can, while guards are throwing rocks to knock you down. If you 
 do manage to get on top of a structure and loose your followers then you better find a hiding place 
 quickly, because they are sure to follow you up.
  
  One odd, and downright unrealistic, quirk about escaping is that when you do manage to find camouflage, 
 as soon as your status becomes "anonymous" again, any guards that could have been feet away from 
 you seconds ago become completely oblivious to you when they see you seconds later. It's a bit 
 too easy in that camouflage not only restores your status to being another face in the crowd, but 
 it apparently induces amnesia upon all your recent pursuers. Without the ability to remember who 
 they were even chasing seconds earlier, the AI of the guards could use a bit more work. I also 
 found it amusing to stand next to the top of a ladder and wait for the guards to climb up and I'd 
 slice them down  and of course, since they aren't the brightest bunch, they will continue to keep 
 re-climbing the ladder until I sliced them all to death.
  
  Generally, the control is not only simple but very efficient, but there are times when it just 
 does something completely different than you had intended. You would think that to scale so many 
 large structures and jump from poles and so forth that a lot of work would be involved in pulling 
 off those feats. That couldn't be any less true  all you really need to do is hold down the R2 
 and A buttons and you will be running wherever you go and climbing anything in front of you or 
 jumping over any gaps in your direction. It's actually a very simple system that still lets you 
 feel like you are controlling the character, but also takes care of most of the dirty precision 
 work. Of course, it's not perfect, and there are bound to be times which Altair does something 
 different than you intend or expect, but it is never anything major like jumping off somewhere 
 or killing himself. Instead, occasionally he may try climbing up a structure or jumping on something 
 when you just want to sit on a bench or hide under shelter. Assassin's Creed also contains an auto-lock-on 
 mechanism that will automatically have your aim locked on the closest enemy when you enter combat. 
 It works very well, and is incredibly helpful, but there are occasions in which you don't want 
 the lock-on enabled at all because you are trying to escape.
  
  There are some fundamental problems with the formula of Assassin's Creed  primarily which it suffers 
 from a high dose of repetition. You have your assassinations, and then you have to gather information 
 prior to introducing Mr. Steel to Mr. Badguy. The gathering information part is where it all gets 
 bland and overly done as the game goes on. To gather information, you do different things like 
 sit on benches and eavesdrop on people, pickpocket others and perform hits on the side to gather 
 knowledge from a couple brotherhood buddies of Altair. The problem is that for every assassination 
 you make, you need to repeat these same preparatory steps over and over again. And since you spend 
 much more time doing the information gathering than assassinating, this means you are spending 
 more time doing the same thing over and over again as opposed to something new.
  
  No one wants to do the same thing over and over no matter what it is  unless it is pleasurable. 
 And not too many people are going to think it's that interesting or entertaining to sit on benches 
 listening to people, or walking behind a guy and holding a button - especially when pickpocketing 
 is so overly simplified and without consequence. To pickpocket, you walk behind your victim and 
 hold the A button  that's it. Very rarely they may turn around and you're busted, but all that 
 happens then is they might alert the guards and you just have to leave the general area and come 
 back again to give it another try. There is also no penalty for being spotted by anyone else as 
 you are doing it, which feels a bit off for a stealth game. Other forms of information gathering 
 consist of making a hit on some other guards as a favor to a friend, or collecting a certain number 
 of flags  both objectives which are timed. It seems odd that some of these information gathering 
 objectives have 3 or 5 minute limits, as they seem to be nothing more than mini-games and oddly 
 out of place in a stealth game. Once more, if you fail any of these, you can come back and try 
 them again. You don't have to gather all the information that exists prior to an assignation, but 
 at least half it. No matter what you do to get that information, you are sure to repeat many of 
 the same steps numerous times for each new assassination you get. Sure, it is understandable that 
 a game can have such elements, but the entire formula of a game shouldn't revolve around them, 
 as is the case here.
  
  Sadly, Assassin's Creed feels to be all about repetition. Even all of the achievements are awarded 
 for performing a certain task or skill so many times. There are things you can do on the side of 
 the main quest's assassinations, but these too consist of pure repetition. There are many flags 
 spread throughout the game in each of the areas, and if you go hunting for them you will be rewarded 
 with achievements. Throughout each district of each of the three cities, there are citizens in 
 distress, being harassed by guards. Saving all of them for each city also will earn you achievements. 
 Saving each citizen is done by taking down the surrounding guards and then talking to them  once 
 you have done it a single time doing it again will be simply since nothing changes. Even more disappointingly, 
 the dialog they say is incredibly repetitive and you will hear the same few lines countless times 
 if you go on these freeing "missions". Personally, I feet that Assassin's Creed would benefit with 
 the addition of some real side-missions with unique objectives. Everything you do in the main quest 
 is already repetitive, and then everything you can do on the side is repetitive, so there should 
 have at least be some missions to break the monotony by sending you on more original missions. 
 It isn't by any means a complete bore to play, but occasionally you may get the feeling of your 
 routine being somewhat tiresome.
  
  Presentation wise, there is also a bit to be desired. It does not look as if they developers took 
 much time or effort in porting Assassin's Creed to the Xbox 360. The tearing and frame rate problems 
 appear to be completely random and come at sporadic times, which is a good indication that it isn't 
 necessarily the result of over-processing. While it is true that a huge percentage of Xbox 360 
 games suffer from screen-tearing, there are also a large number of huge games with awesome graphics 
 that get away with just as much without suffering from these problems. Sadly, I also encountered 
 collision-detection bugs on two separate occasions, which resulted in me having to restart the 
 game. Once I had got stuck inside a tree somehow and could not move. The other time was towards 
 the end of the game when the area accessible to you gradually moves as you defeat soldiers. Somehow, 
 I got stuck inside a no-access area and Altair was running into a wall and I could not regain control 
 of him. It seems as though either the developers didn't scrutinize the performance of the game 
 well enough, or problems were created out of the port. Whatever the case, I encountered two fatal 
 bugs while playing, so I can only hope you will be luckier than I. But aside from these two flukes 
 and the occasional issue with tearing and frame rates, the game runs quite well - especially considering 
 how much is on-screen at a single time. Assassin's creed will never come screeching to halt and 
 completely dip in frame rate as the occasional lag you will encounter is relatively minor.
  
  Even if much of the game play can feel repetitive, it still feels enjoyable to climb up buildings 
 and throw beggars around. Combat is also a blast, and if you are one of those collector types, 
 then you will end up spending a long time trying to find all the hidden flags. Sometimes you just 
 feel like picking something up and messing around in it for a while  Assassin's Creed is perfect 
 for that. Even with the problems that it has, it is one of the most beautiful looking games ever, 
 and I honestly was quite addicted to playing it for a good few days. Yes, there is a lot that could 
 be improved upon, but very few games are perfect as they are. If you have a general idea about 
 what you are getting into when you play a game like this, then I am quite confident that you will 
 not be disappointed.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: (8) A good story, with some questionable story telling decisions. Climb almost anywhere 
 and go almost anywhere - just don't forget H20 is instant death (assassin's can't swim) . Enjoyable 
 combat and a wonder to watch. Too bad it's formula is based around repetition. Unmatched motion 
 capturing & choreography!
  
  Graphics: (9) Quite possibly the nicest looking game in many ways. If it weren't for dips in the 
 frame-rate and tearing, it would be close to perfection.
  
  Sound: (8) Some great sound affects mixed with good music and voice overs. It's a pity so many 
 lines are recycled as often as they are and that ambience feels lacking overall.
  
  Lasting appeal: (7) Repetition. It's always a blast to scale the cities, but the formula begins 
 to feel repetitive after you are on your second hit. A variety of side missions would be greatly 
 welcomed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGuy123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  ok the game assassins creed was huge it should have got game of the year award but it didnt unfortunely 
 the whole world was massive you had the storyline and the flag collecting and the templar hunting 
 not to mention the awesome sword fighting.
  
  But what made this game so great, it was the climbing. It was great fun climbing the towers and 
 just leaping off landing in a hay bale get up shake off the hay and do it all over again.
  
  When I first saw the game it was right here in gamespot i saw the reveiw then i went straight 
 out and bought it and the reveiw was totally right my advice is go out and buy the game.
  
  (p. s when you have just left masyaf go and use your eagle vision and all the guards should be blue 
 except for one guy dressed as an assassin but not really assassin i think he, s an imposter you 
 should check it out) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PETTZ10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  well i saw the trailers and thought that looks not to bad than i played it for 2 days solid no 
 baths no shaving, nothing!!! this is the game of the year for me dont even worry with kane and 
 lynche this is it ,everything about this game is class, not a thing broken about it and the second 
 time of playing it is even better (gotta get all those templars)
  
  the main attraction is the fighting, gone are the days of golden axe where you just swing wildly 
 in any direction as fast as you can, much more controled and realistic (and i should know with 
 my extensive sword fight experience!!!!!
  then to top it off kristen bell our very own veronica mars is one of the leads voices, watch out 
 for a more prominent role in the next installment!
  
  the only down side to the game was a story line as transparent as a tropical sea you could see 
 right to the bottom no standing on jelly fish or nothing!
  
  with GTA4 coming out it really has a lot to live up to, and yes rockstar invented free roaming 
 games (and in 2004 defined it with san andreas) this has lifted the bar yet again so much that 
 i fear only saints row 2 will be able to compete!!
  
  this is as good as it gets!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unblinded1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This should have been renamed One Man Army Creed or something... I remember hearing about this 
 game and drooling. 
  
  Unfortunently combat in this game was too easy and by the time you've finished it there really 
 is no need for you to stay stealthy anymore (in fact i finished most missions by simply killing 
 everyone there) . The missions are repetitive and there is NO replay value given that cutscenes 
 are lengthy and you cannot jump immediately into the action.. 
  
  The 'investigation' missions that you do leading up to your assassination are repetitive, and rarely 
 require anything more than pushing one button at a certain time or when a character is facing a 
 different direction. Combat is a matter of timing single button presses to execute a counter... 
 there are options here but why would you dodge an enemies blow when you can pull off a counter 
 attack that will not only deflect the attack but most times kill your enemy as well?
  
  The voice acting is kinda lame and reminds me of early xbox titles .... plus the characters say 
 the same things over and over again! 
  
  Dont get me wrong the game is beautiful , and the characters very well animated.. it has polish 
 and is well done... theres just no substance to it!! 
  I was glad it was over when it was... It provided a weekends entertainment but its a game i will 
 trade in shortly..
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Climbing and jumping around is just too much fun, Altair is pretty awesome, stealth assassinating 
 people is delightfully absurd, graphics are pretty good, Controls are excellent.
  
  The Bad:
  The whole game is filled with repetitive gameplay, fighting could have been better, 
 too easy to mess up, blood doesn't look realistic at all, the beggars and drunks get way too annoying 
 and can screw you up badly.
  
  Assassin's Creed has been waited for since it was first announced at E3 a few years back, since 
 then thousands of gamers have been highly anticipating its release. So the question is, was Assassin's 
 Creed worth all that wait? The answer is: Yes and no. Assassin's Creed is a wonderful game in many 
 ways, but also falls short of where it could be. A. C. reminds me a little bit of some movie games 
 where you have to collect a certain amount of objects to receive an award (in this case an achievement) . 
 Assassin's Creed's entire storyline and gameplay is also filled with the same repetitiveness you'd 
 expect from a movie game. There isn't that much substance to be found within the gameplay, it seems 
 like most of the time was spent in building the cities than anything.
  
  There are many things that were good about Assassin's Creed however, such as some of the fights 
 since you can sometimes get some pretty cool sword slashes on your enemy. The story line is also 
 pretty good, it's filled with a lot of things that will keep you guessing, but if you follow along 
 closely you may figure out what's going to happen at the end of the game. Altair is also a relatively 
 cool character, he's got the element of awesomeness surrounding him, but the only real disappointment 
 about his character is that the voice acting wasn't all that substantial, he seemed to speak in 
 the same tone almost the entire game. My favorite thing to do in the game was freerun and jump 
 from building to building, and climb up some towers and then do the leap of faith off of them. 
 Aside from this, I didn't have too many things that I liked about the gameplay, even if some of 
 the fighting was pretty fun. 
  
  There were more than a handful of nuisances in the game, like the beggars and the drunks. The beggars 
 can really get on your nerves, since they'll follow you around until you run away or push them 
 away enough times. The drunks were probably the most annoying thing about the game though, since 
 many times they'll push you into a guard or into your assassination target and ruin everything. 
 There was generally no point in adding in the beggars and drunks, aside from the fact that they 
 make the game a tad bit more difficult and frustrating.
  
  The characters in the game weren't too developed, aside from the character Lucy who you find out 
 some interesting stuff about. Altair developed as a person throughout the story, which made him 
 less ignorant and arrogant and more apologetic and sympathetic. There were several characters in 
 the game that I would have liked to see get developed more, such as Desmond since you didn't find 
 too much out about his past, aside from a few somewhat interesting things. Out of all the characters 
 in the game though, Altair himself was probably the most interesting. Altair is a pretty cool character, 
 though he might not be great enough to be considered a legend years from now.
  
  The music in Assassin's Creed was done really well, if you pay close attention to it you'll really 
 appreciate it a whole lot. Assassin's Creed's soundtrack is probably one that you'll want to own 
 and enjoy. The voice acting is great for the most part, but there are some annoyances that get 
 in the way of it being perfect, such as Altair's voice acting. There are also lines in the game 
 that'll you hear too often, such as the guy giving a speech on Saladin. Also, I swear I heard the 
 line, "Please sir. I don't have any money, I'm poor and sick and hungry!" a thousand times. There 
 are some funny lines in A. C. that you'll likely get a chuckle out of the first few times, but after 
 you've heard them a dozen times they're just annoying.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a great video-game, but it just falls short in too many ways to 
 make you want to play it many times. Some games have the quality to them that will make you want 
 to relive the quests over and over again, games like Ocarina of Time. Assassin's Creed likely isn't 
 going to be that game to most people, but maybe to some. If you're looking for a great single player 
 experience though, Assassin's Creed is the way to go. This game is worth owning.
  
  Why did I give Assassin's Creed the score I did?
  I took off 1 full point for the repetitive 
 gameplay, .5 for the annoying problems, and 1 for the shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willb311
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Another blockbuster title. Another moderately dissapointed gamer. I guess the best way to describe 
 this one is "repetive to the point of boring". Games rarely bore me these days, but man this one 
 definitely did. Thats a let down for me cosidering I was at least kind of anticipating this one. 
 The graphics are good, the combat is very easy but uninspiring and, the story, at least the one 
 set in present day should have been scrapped from the start of production. This game should have 
 no ties with the present in any way. Oh yeah the missions can get old real quick considering that 
 all you really do is assassinate, which believe it or not get old a little to soon for me and probably 
 you too. Its not a bad game just not a great one. I'll happily put it in the "Meh file" which means 
 its mediocre, because of the freaking gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Assassin's was built from the ground up to be a true next gen feeling game. And it accomplishes 
 this perfectly. Now, looking at this game you would assume it is based out in the medevil times, 
 correct? WRONG. Though the gameplay itself takes place during the crusades, the actual timeline 
 is happening in modern day. Though it may sound a tad confusing, it actually makes it more interesting 
 as well as very different from the rest. 
  
  -Graphically, this game is in the top few best looking games of all time. Everything is gorgeous, 
 from the characters, to the lighting to the scenary. Its all beautiful. Climb on the several high 
 reach points and sysnchonize yourself and take in the scenary. Everything you see there is completely 
 interactive. Anywhere you see, you can go. That simple. And the crowded city streets are lively 
 as they can be and do not faulter the game in anyway graphically, but only enhance the illusion.
 
  
  -Gameplay is innovative, new, and completely addicting. Prince of Persia is child's play when standing 
 next to its new competition. You will leap buildings with ease, and climb the highest buildings 
 with not a single problem. Just climbed an extremely tall building and don't wanna climb down? 
 Not a problem. One of the best features of this game is called "The Leap of Faith" in which you 
 will literally jump off a building and land gracefully in a pile of hay. Now, it may not at all 
 sound too interesting but I will tell you that it is exhilarting. Once you take the leap, you will 
 find yourself searching for higher buildings to jump off. And when the going gets tough, your main 
 man Altair holds his ground. If you see a guard on the roof yelling at you that can't be there, 
 then you shut him up with a clean swift of the wrist, landing a knife in his chest. You are armed 
 with throwing knives, a short sword, a long sword, and your secretive dagger in which you mainly 
 assassinate people with. Battles are epic, and with the awesome cinematic angling you feel as if 
 you are watching a movie. Counter attack your opponent with your sword and you will slap the hell 
 outta him and drive your sword through his spine. Its extremely satisfying, and that is just one 
 of many attacks. 
  
  -Controling Altair as you may have heard is a little difficult... but only in the beginning. You'll 
 get the hang of him quickly, and once you do, you will be practically walking in air. Its a breeze 
 once you get the hold of it, and is one of my favorite things in the game. Climbing buildings has 
 never been so easy. With an innovative new type of control scheme it pulls it off nicely. Thing 
 of it this way: Y is for your head, X is for you attack hand, A is for your legs, and B is for 
 your free hand. Its a great concept and works incredibly well.
  
  -The story is actually pretty compelling, but doesn't pull you in right away. The more you get 
 into it however, you start to get pulled into it. And the voice acting is well done, adding only 
 more realism to the game.
  
  -Assassin's Creed is one helluva game that has only minor flaws. One of which is that it may get 
 a little repetative. On top of that, you can blow through it fairly quickly if you just do the 
 main missions. But once the quarrels are aside you are left with a breathtaking experience, one 
 that is like no other. Assassin's has gorgeous graphics, outstanding gameplay, and a fit story 
 to back it. There is no reason not to purchase it and the only reason I failed to give it a 10 
 is due to the its length. And considering there is no online to back it, once your done, your done. 
 Luckily you can go back and replay every mission you complete. 
  
  So go and sacrifice yourself to the Creed, and join your fellow brothers in bringing justice to 
 the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aldojr000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that will blow your mind when you get to watch it and play it for the first time. 
 But very soon you'll star to see how easy it is to play it, by the time you get closer and closer 
 to the end instead of being harder it gets easier and easier. 
  There is a huge lack of challenge in the game, there is no dificulty options not even when you 
 finish the game (which is a very bad ending) . And you can just get to fight the whole city and 
 not die. You can be surrounded by docens of people but they will always attack you one by one, 
 so it doesn't matter how many attack you. 
  Another anoyin thing is that you cant quit the cinematics or the dialogs, there is no way, you 
 have to listen to the same thing over and over. So playing the game again is just boring.
  Good thing, graphics, animations, gameplay and sound is just fantastic. Everythings looks sooo 
 good, and you just enjoy walking in the streets of any of these 3 cities, the crowd and many details 
 is just fantastic. Gameplay is very easy to get and to master, which is something good and bad. 
 
  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game and a great a experience but if you don't mind it being very 
 easy this is a must play at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how this game got a 9.0 I mean sure it's beautiful to look at but my god this 
 game gets so repetitive. All missions have the same requirements to go through to complete the 
 objective. I really enjoyed the game, don't get me wrong, but I just don't see what's in this game 
 that warrants a 9.0. Besides the repetitive qualities of the game, the ending downright blows! 
 It's one thing to leave things open for a sequel, but it's quite another to not at least give some 
 closure to this chapter of the story. I mean you're playing and all of a sudden you get an achievement 
 for having completed the game... with no kind of dramatic closing, nothing to grab you just pretty 
 much "Well that's it, you can go now, no more to be done here, go back to Halo 3 or something.... go 
 on... leave." Very disappointing, you feel ripped off for having played through the game just to 
 get shafted on the ending. 
  
  My suggestion is to learn from my mistake and just rent the game on a weekend, beat it and then 
 return it. There's no replay value so once you beat it, it'll just sit on your gaming shelf. This 
 is a game that you should definitely play, just not one that I would advise buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxrule1234
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  this was an amazing game. very repetitive, but it never gets old jumping 100's of feet into a bale 
 of hay. this was a great game that shows that the xbox 360 can have great games outside of FPS. 
 I would deffinatly recommend this game to a friend. Assassin's creed is not as good as call of 
 duty 4 but it deffinatly is a sign of good things to come for the xbox 360. The graphics are amazing 
 and the moves are flawless. This is one of the xbox's best titles. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstar79
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long wait, and an exciting ride. Assassin's Creed has come a long way since its debut 
 at X06, and almost a year later, it's finally here. And now, the million dollar question: Was it 
 worth it? Such a simple question should be answered with an equally simple answer, so, simply, 
 Assassin's Creed is not so much a game, but an experience. And, like many experiences, it is one 
 that you won't soon forget.
  
  Assassin's Creed is unique in such a way that it captivates you from the moment you close the disc 
 tray. From the Tarantino-style opening cutscene, to the climatic ending battle, you won't be able 
 to put down your controller. Like a good book, you'll have to see it through to the end. And speaking 
 of stories, Assassin's Creed's is extremely well done. Set in 2012, you play a bartender named 
 Desmond, who is kidnapped by a group of scientists and strapped into a machine called an Animus. 
 The Animus can look at your DNA and replay memories from your ancestors in 3D. The scientists seem 
 intent on seeing a certain memory of one of Desmond's ancestors, named Altar, who was an Assassin 
 during the 3rd Crusades. Unfortunately, Desmond's subconscious rejects the memory, as he is not 
 used to using the Animus, so he must start a few weeks before the target memory, as Altair is tasked 
 with the assassination of 9 key people in an attempt to end the crusades, and return the Holy Land 
 to peace. It isn't that simple, of course. The game has more plot twists, revelations, and shockers 
 than a Dan Brown novel, and just as many controversial statements about Christianity. Trust me, 
 by the end of the game, you'll be questioning all that you know; or rather, all that you were led 
 to believe, it seems...
  
  One of the first things you'll notice about Assassin's Creed is that it is easily the most visually 
 outstanding game of the year. Everything from the security camera-esque visuals of the science 
 lab, to the crisp desert vistas of the Holy Land is simply perfect. The only bad thing I can say 
 is that sometimes the game sports some very noticeable texture pop, but this is rare, and does 
 not detract much from the overall experience.
  
  Assassinating is an Art, and it's a lot more complex then you think. There are 3 stages to an assassination: 
 First stage is called the Investigation. In Assassin's Creed, there are 3 main ways to get information. 
 You can eavesdrop, you can pickpocket, and you can use violence to intimidate. Also, there are 
 a few informers throughout the cities that reward you with intel if you do a job for them, which 
 can either be running across the rooftops picking up 20 flags that he mysteriously dropped, and 
 didn't realize until now, or you'll kill a few guards throughout the city who are looking for him. 
 This all sounds interesting at first, but you have 9 guys to kill, and 6 investigation missions 
 per guy. That's 56 missions, and only 4 different types. After around the fourth assassination, 
 it gets so repetitive that you'll just want to get to the end.
  
  Moving on, there's the second stage, the assassination. Here you can use the intel that you gained 
 in the investigations. Here arises another problem. You just did a lot of work to learn how to 
 kill your target silently and professionally, but you'll most likely end up rushing in and killing 
 him in front of a hundred guards anyway, and that's really frustrating. If Ubisoft wants to make 
 you do several repetitive and boring missions that supposedly help you in your assassination, they 
 should actually make them help you in your assassinations.
  
  Thirdly, there's the chase. After killing your man, there's the inevitable pursuit sequence. This 
 pits you against several guards as you try to escape to the local Assassin's Bureau. That's pretty 
 much it.
  
  So far, the gameplay doesn't look all that great. Luckily, it's the fighting that really saves 
 this game. The combat in Assassin's Creed is simply fantastic. Best of all, it's really easy to 
 get the hang of. Press X to take a swing at your opponent. If you hit X again as soon as your sword 
 makes contact with his, you begin a combo. If you can combo several times, you get an incredibly 
 gratifying kill. Hold RT to go into defence mode, where you can counter attack. If you Hold RT 
 and Press X as your enemy is about to make contact with your sword, you can do a really cool counter 
 kill. Holding RT, you can also grab break, depending on your level. Speaking of grabs, press B 
 to grab your opponent, and flick the left stick in the direction you want to send him flying. Hold 
 RT, and Press A and any direction to dodge your opponent's attacks. After he swings and misses, 
 take advantage of his momentary disorientation to strike. Overall, the fighting flows together 
 so smoothly, and is very fun. It really saves this game from mediocrity.
  
  The best part about this game, however, is your ability to walk through any city, and actually 
 feel like a part of the world. As you walk the streets of Jerusalem, beggars come at you from every 
 angle pleading for money. Troublemakers hang out in alleyways, and shove you if you're nearby. 
 You can eavesdrop on conversations between guards, and watch as an entire city interacts around 
 you. Everything about Assassin's Creed is just so realistic. From the fighting, to the historical 
 accuracy, hell, every NPC has a different personality. And that's no small feat. Take a look at 
 the map, and check out the Approximate Population of your current city. Damascus had about 50,000 
 people at one point, and my frame rate rarely slowed. Assassin's Creed is such a technological 
 marvel, that it's easy to overlook the repetitive gameplay. As I said earlier, Assassin's Creed 
 is an experience. And, as such, you should take the time to experience it.
  
  Breakdown
  Graphics  10
  Gameplay  7.5
  Story  10
  Sound  9
  Tilt  10
  
  Overall  9.3/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 03121992
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  It's an alright game but becomes way to easy and repetitive. Needs higher difficulties. The minute 
 you unlock counter attacks you can pretty much decimate hundreds of soldiers without even a scratch. 
 Needs to make counters harder or the enemies harder. Whichever. Also should allow the CPU's to 
 ride on horses it would be interesting to have fights on horseback. Complicated combo kills and 
 counter kills could be awesome. It would be
  better if there were more missions that could be accomplished in the cities other than climbing 
 towers, saving citizens, pickpocketing, eavesdropping and the such. All in all it's not a bad game 
 but can definately be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so considering the wait and having the shift through countless screen shots and videos while 
 waiting for this game to come out, I will say that it was worth the weight. Assassin's Creed is 
 a wonderful game in terms of both game play and graphics. While personally I prefer game play and 
 story to graphics, anyone should be well pleased. First off, the story line is very engrossing 
 and will pull you in, and will also cause you to sit back and go, "No Way!" There are three major 
 cities in which you stalk your targets. As for as drawbacks, if any, is that many gamers may feel 
 like their doing the same thing over and over. The combat is one of the best high points, and when 
 you counter an enemy and kill him, the animation is wonderful. Though I did enjoy jumping off the 
 high points and landing in hay bails that always seemed to be in the right spot. Got to love that. 
 ^_^ Its a great game, and something that is worthy for anyone's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for 16 hours now all I can say is that i got bored of it 14 hours ago.
 
  
  Here are the good things about the game first:
  
  o Absolutely stunning graphics, looks amazing on my 120" projection screen. Life-like NPCs, buildings, 
 animation, geography, music, sound.
  
  o Excellent and brutal sword fights, killing is enjoyable.
  
  Now the bad things:
  
  o 
 This game simply needed to look at the Hitman franchise and learn a lesson on how to create smart, 
 interesting missions.
  
  o Here's the premise:
  You get stripped of all your abilities AKA Prince of Persia, you run around 3 gorgeous yet absolutely 
 feature, quest, mission identical cities and assassinate 9 people in the exact same way with 0 
 brain activity involved.
  
  You are never required to do all investigations in the city to be able to kill the bosses. Three 
 is enough. What's worse is that those mini-missions are EXACTLY the same from one assassination 
 to the next. Nothing at all changes except the cut scenes at the scene of the murder and the NPC 
 you kill.
  
  o I'm sorry but climbing 20 towers and jumping off them is not my idea of fun. This would be fun 
 once, maybe twice..... should never have been a part of the gameplay mechanic.
  
  o You don't have to really plan ANYTHING to kill the next guy. Unlike the excellent Hitman series 
 (which I anticipated this would be like) nor the adventurous Prince of Persia, this game requires 
 0 tactics or logic to execute even though you're led to believe there is some planning involved 
 during the mini-quests. You basically do 3 investigations and run up to the guy or chase him (in 
 rare cases) and stab him in the neck..... he mumbles some incoherent garbage along the lines that 
 you shouldn't have killed him and rinse and repeat 9 times.
  
  o The game banks on you replaying it to uncover "bonuses", I simply don't have the urge to kill 
 1000 guards repetitively to save the same looking array of 3 citizens and waste 100 hours doing 
 this, sorry but you have to come up with a more fun way to make a game replayable. (look to Witcher 
 for an example on how to do this) .
  
  All in all it feels like the game had EXCELLENT beginning and was simply rushed to market and certain 
 ideas never made it. So it feels very oversimplified and repetitive. Great gfx though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger2099
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  If you were one of the players that were anxiously awaiting this game like me then you'll understand 
 why i'm a little dissapointed.
  first things first, all in all its not a bad game its just a little simple and i think that this 
 is a good stepping stone for future releases of this franchise.
  
  when i first heard of this game i couldn't wait for it and i even watched all the game reviews 
 and trailers which i sort of wish i hadn't because now im all the more annoyed by it, for a start 
 one of the previews showed gameplay up to a point where you killed the merchant king (first assassination) 
 and then quickly cuts off because they didn't want to ruin the twist........ just to point out 
 that its not a twist if you find out right at the begging of the game, basically i feel that this 
 was just a way to make me buy it in order to find out that its really another sci-fi game.
  The game at first shows promise and you get addicted quite quickly untill you realise that you 
 are invincible!! about half way through the game nothing poses a threat and you can easy dispatch 
 of 100 guards without even moving from your spot, and even if they do some how manage to strike 
 you all you have to do is stand still and somehow you'll regenerate, once again i remember the 
 preview saying that i couldn't take that many hits to the head.... really? coz i feel like i'm god 
 armed with a lightsaber and the abilty to piss health at anytime!
  The AI is beyond retarded and once again i remember being promised intellegent AI but some how 
 that was replaced by an AI that can be out witted by a loaf of bread, in all honesty does it take 
 that much to figure out im the murderer of an entire squad of guards when im stood over all their 
 bodies carrying a small arsenal of weapons?? apparntly so because i appear to be a monk with a 
 small fetish for knifes and swords so i couldn't have been me.
  now to the 1 point of the game that everyone notices, Repeative missions, i know some people will 
 argue with this point but i dont find doing the same thing over and over again but in a different 
 part of a city that i've all ready visited enough to be able to say that this game play, it's like 
 throwing a ball at a wall and trying to catch it with diiferent hands and im obviously apart of 
 some sort of yellow bus group because amazingly my fellow members are able to lose flags all over 
 the place and for some odd reason require me to get them or they'll be in trouble, now try and 
 imagine an assassin carrying 30 flags around not exactly incogneto is he?
  The free running part of the game is cool but later on in the game the glitches become so bad that 
 even that becomes annoying, you ask him to jump one way and he takes it upon himself to ignore 
 you and jump in the opposite direction just to see how the floor would taste if you fell to it 
 at 100 mph, but the glitches don't even stop there! at points you cant block and at others you'll 
 jump through buildings and some how the guards become floating ninjas with the ability to jump 
 from the highest of buildings and land perfectly in front of you!
  1 more point before i finish, i know that dezmond isn't really altiar but does that mean he has 
 to walk at incredibly slow speeds! i mean come on i know your being held captive but your legs 
 still do work!
  
  All in all its an ok game but the re play value is close to Zero, i played it once, finished it 
 and plan never to play again. my advice to you if your thinking of buying this is don't unless 
 you one of those people who like the simple life and watching reality TV as if its the worlds greatest 
 creation because you deserve all the crap that the world has produced and this is right up there 
 next to pimp my ride the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The best thing in my opinion about Assassin's Creed is the Fighting, kind of easy to sway even 
 big fights in your direction with counters, but they look great, and nothing feels better the jumping 
 a fleeing guard from behind, and giving them what they had coming for picking a fight with you 
 in the first place. The game has it's moments of weakness, like repetitive missions. Also when 
 you die, there are no real consequences, you re-spawn close, and just go about your business, of 
 course given the story of the game this makes sense, but still...
  
  If your like me and just like going on rampages feeling invincible, and play hide and Assassinate 
 with the guards, then you'll like this.
  
  Also the story is pretty good, as is the Ai for the most part, and game play is second to none... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acknowledge101
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  For the first 3 or 4 hours Assassin's Creed is one of the most addictive experiences in gaming. 
 An open-world, where you gather info, help citizens, scale rooftops, find collectables, and of 
 course, totally cut some necks dude. It's good fun and the story is intriguing; and the futuristic/Philip 
 K. Dick-esque approach is also a nice change to your typical medieval affair.
  If there were one aspect of this game that I think turned out the best, it would be the climbing. 
 You can climb just about anything that looks climbable. And battles are surprisingly fresh. Nice.
 
  
  But then you assassinate the 5th or 6th figurehead and suddenly... it wears. Running around and 
 capturing flags; trying to save citizens and fending off hordes of guards to do so. After awhile 
 it's almost gratingly annoying. Especially having to stop and wait for missions to load or "unload" 
 and listen to 20-30 second cut scenes with NPCs that all say practically the same thing. There's 
 no skip button.
  
  Even scaling towers gets somewhat bothersome after awhile. I remember the days when climbing buildings 
 had this grandeur to it, and it does the first couple of times here too. But the milk runs dry.
 
  
  Okay, so this game isn't horrible. It has great production values and you can tell a lot of time 
 was put into it. It looks stunning and the gameplay is above average... until its charm wears off...
 
  
  For some reason I think of Crackdown when I play this game... that game didn't seem to get as boring 
 as quickly though; not sure why.
  
  Check it out. Rent it... then buy it when it's a bit cheaper... if you still like it after 3 or 
 4 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings. there was a lot of criticism about repetition. I cannot disagree. There 
 is a lot about lack of things, and again i cannot disagree.
  
  Then why am i so confused?
  It is simple. This game in it's original approach, the graphics, 
 the sound and the overal gam. This game shows a game different, then any otehr game i have seen 
 before. The time period has been blatently ignored in the history of gaming, and here is a game 
 that doesn't just wade through that part. it takes a leap of faith and let you drown in the images. 
 What a magnificent acomplishment. There is a lot to od, and getting it all done will require a 
 lot of time. But it is clear that the Crusade world is now open for business. Damascus and Jerusalem 
 will blow you away.
  The graphics are just awesome and the art is amazing. The approach is perhaps another matter, but 
 i am just in awe of what was done and acomplished here.
  The viewpoint is the strangest repetition, but when you look around, those dozens of sights are 
 just a reason to invent timetravel and go there for real.
  The game does have a few glitches, but nothing truly over the edge. the 'bosses' take different 
 hands and you can make it hard or easy. Depends on your own approach. 
  too bad you cant get into the houses, and perhaps more can be achieved. but it is clear that this 
 game is a top product screaming the need for an AC2.
  And if after all this doubts exist on the game, then take a look at the artwork book. I have seen 
 major motion picture productions with less then half the effort that this game shows.
  
  Can't wait for someone to map London in all it's competeness in the days of the Crusades and the 
 realm of Jack the Ripper. It might give the creed a soggy sweet ground for carnage and mayhem. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I knew about this game when it was first ever even freakin conceived and I had been waiting since 
 then for this game. I waited for this game for 2 years reserved it 4months early and got it the 
 first day it came out. And it was all totally worth it. It is easily one of the best games I have 
 ever played. The graphics are stunning and the gameplay is amazingly smooth for all that you can 
 do. The environments are huge and totally interactive. IGN said this game had poor replay value 
 and I beat it in 4 days and I'm still playing it. There one thing that bugs me though I can't find 
 a way up the assassins fortress building which if I could would be the tallest building. The only 
 bad thing about this game, and its not really that bad, is that it has some visual glitches here 
 and there. One thing I noticed about what they did with this game is that no matter how far away 
 you are from and object or building it doesn't lose its detail. This game is a must buy for everyone. 
 It is revolutionary to say the least. Brace yourself for the ending ( don't throw your controller) .
 
  P. S. There has to be a second game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckboy13
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Assassins Creed I thought it was one of the best games of the year. 
 The controls were easy to pick up on and, although the ai was a bit dumb, the fights were great. 
 When I got to my 3rd or so assassination things just started to become boring.
  
  The story of Assassins Creed revolves around a man named Desmond who is trapped by a group of scientist. 
 The scientists then use a machine called the Animus to dive into Desmond's memory. This is were 
 Altair comes in. I found the sci-fi element to be rather stupid and out of place. There will be 
 times when you just want to go play as Altair but be forced to watch cut scenes or just be randomly 
 pulled out of the Animus.
  
  Game play in Assassins creed is easily one of its best features. The player controls Altair like 
 a pupped using the face buttons. Free-running across builds is a thrill and can provide hours of 
 fun. Combat in Assassins Creed is a lot of fun but very easy to use. What I found odd was the fact 
 that guards would just stand around you in a circle and attack one by one. This makes fights easy 
 unless you are being attacked by many enemies.
  
  Graphics in Assassins Creed are outstanding. Textures and Draw distances are great but the city 
 structure is absolutely incredible. Cities are huge and are all historically accurate making the 
 game sometimes feel like a movie.
  
  Assassins Creed's biggest flaw is repetition. For every assassination you must first investigate 
 and then you go in for the kill. Investigations are IDENTICLE for each target, each involving a 
 simple task such as pick pocketing or eavesdropping. When you are done investigating you kill your 
 target and then you are done. Although you can choose to save citizens, this also is the exact 
 same thing each time. The citizens you save even say the same things and the result is always the 
 same. 
  
  Overall, Assassins Creed is a good game that good have been amazing. The graphics and Game play 
 are brought down by the games repetition, dumb ai, and a stupid story. Hopefully the almost for 
 sure sequel will improve upon this games flaws. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The controlls work well and are very simple and easy to get used too but not stressful at any point 
 in the game as they are all responsive when being chased by so many guards and enemies. 
  Huge, gorgeous world that feels wholly alive Fluid controls make it fun to run across city rooftops 
 Joyous mix of stealth, action, and platforming Stunning sound design features fantastic voice acting 
 and a beautiful musical score Tons of small details will constantly amaze you. 
  Not only but the combat system is both realistic and intuative as there is a wide selection moves 
 you can pull off from cool counters to combo moves and if you feel angry you can just hack and 
 slash. 
  Finally you can use a wide range of weapons from 3 types of swords 2 type of shot sword increased 
 amount of throwing knives your fists and even a little shady assasination blade where you figure 
 has been cut off.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isayama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Not only does this game have an interesting story line, the combat in this game is one of a kind. 
 Flawless combat counter attacks, spectacular visuals, the exact feeling of being a real assassin, 
 and one of the biggest sandbox games ever. Sure the controls take some time getting used to, yet 
 after a while you begin to understand on what the controls are going for. You will spend countless 
 hours assassinating soldiers in many different and creative ways. The only problem with this game 
 is that the camera becomes a bit sticky about half the time. And after beating the game, there 
 isn't really anything else to do in the game besides collecting flags, finding templars, and saving 
 civilians -which becomes a total b*tch-. Overall, this is a game worth playing; if you want to 
 be the ultimate "ninja".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widow360
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of them games you can pick up and play and time will get away from you. 
 The graphics are outstanding. The controls for the game is great. This game is great. You don't 
 own it yet you need to go get it. Its worth the money. I know now days its hard to find a game 
 worth it but this one is worth the money. After you play this game you will hope they make a part 
 2. Its cool how you can walk up behind someone and stick them. Its nice to have a great game that 
 lies on a blade then how many bullets you put in someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  Running on top of rooftops, climbing buildings and fighting enemies is a lot of fun, however the 
 tasks that have to be done gets really repetitive after a while. Assassinating the main targets 
 are all really interesting, but you have to do a few side quests before you can assassinate your 
 targets. It makes sense that you have to learn about your target's whereabouts before you achieve 
 your goal, it's just that there is a lack of variety in these side quests. There are roughly 5-6 
 different types of side quests to learning about your enemy for each target. There are 9 main targets 
 which Altair must kill, so doing these same side quests each time you have a new target can make 
 this game feel like a chore. It's a good thing that getting to these targets are fun, since you 
 can easily climb buildings and objects, otherwise it's not even worth it.
  
  Graphics:8.5/10
  Textures, real-time shadows, blur effects and dozens of NPCs that can be seen 
 on screen are really well done, the view from each view point is really breath-taking, especially 
 with the use of atmospheric perspective which really captures a sense of a large city. Each location 
 is large in scale and also littered with objects to climb onto. Altair is also very interactive 
 with all of these objects, especially when he is climbing, he wont climb anything unless there 
 is some sort of geometry to actually grab onto, which is a very nice little detail. There are a 
 few bugs to take note, however. There are some noticeable "pop-ins" with NPC's, some graphical 
 pop-in and there are just some absolutely ridiculous bugs that occur such as two Altairs appearing 
 on screen or a horses' legs flying out of place. This game looks as if it could have used a few 
 weeks of polish.
  
  Sound: 7.5/10
  The acting is good except for Altair, which is a real shame since he's the main character. It's 
 strange how everyone in Altair's time has an accent except for Altair himself. It seems as if he 
 has grown up in the late 19th century America. NPC dialog gets very repetitive. It appears as though 
 each type character only has around 5 lines of dialog and you can't even skip some of the things 
 people say when you save a civilian. Some of the sounds are well done, however there are some bugs 
 in this area as well.
  
  Animations: 9/10
  The animations are very well done. The way Altair climbs buildings and jumps on objects are all 
 very convincing. Combat is pretty flashy when you use counter kills.
  
  Playability: 7.5/10
  Running around, jumping buildings and climbing houses are all very simple 
 to do, however there are some instances when Altair will jump onto areas you didn't want to go 
 to. Combat is fun but the camera during combat could use some work. When you lock onto enemies 
 the camera can find itself in hard to see areas and it gets a bit annoying. Although the counter-attack 
 camera looks nice, i'd prefer to just leave the camera as it is when I counter, since the camera 
 would sometimes find itself behind another wooden stand.
  
  Replayability: 6.5/10
  This is a mixed bag. If you want to do everything there is to do in Assassin's Creed, then your 
 options are to go back and collect all the flags, get all the viewpoints or save all the civilians 
 or even just get all of the achievements, however all of these are acquirable the first time through, 
 so after that there is nothing else.
  
  Story: 7.5/10
  I wont spoil anything, but the story is interesting and after accomplishing the game you will find 
 out that there is still a lot of story to tell. After the credits began to roll, I felt a lack 
 of accomplishment, as if I needed to know much more than what was told. Just like how I felt at 
 the end of Halo2. 
  
  Rent or Buy?: I'd have to say it is a rental, or if you can borrow it from someone. While this 
 is definitely fun to play, it won't last after you beat the game. Many people have beaten this 
 game within a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5ish_bONe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Going into this game, I was under the impression that this game was going to be set in the time 
 of the crusades. You were going to be an assassin out to take the lives of the wicked crusaders 
 and there major leaders.
  
  I was dead wrong, well at least partially. 
  
  Your role in this fantastic twist of a story is Altier, an assassin who lost his rank and privileges 
 due to his arrogant behavior resulting in the violation of the three sacred rules of the assassins. 
 Now in order to regain his status he must assassinate nine men of substantial power, ranging from 
 mayors to black market dealer to name a few.
  
  The controls take some getting use to, but it's well worth it. After some practice you be flying 
 across rooftops and evading guards like a pro. It turns out that the somewhat awkward control fit 
 this type of play. Who would have thought?
  
  The game looks amazing, even on standard-def televisions. There are a few visual glitches hear 
 and there, but nothing more than the background disappearing for a fraction of a second. The frame 
 rate is solid through out the game never dropping low enough to notice. The game cinematic sequences 
 are all in game and the camera angles can be controlled by the player, which make even watching 
 an interactive experience.
  
  The only real flaw in this game is the ending. Play it and you'll know what I mean. Other than 
 that this is a solid game and a experience worth you time- and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiascra
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Im harsh dont get me wrong I mean im not one of these people which gives loads of games 10 out 
 of 10, but this game you can't fault it its unbelievable imagine you were a free runner you can 
 step on certain small blocks climb up chimneys yeah well in this game you can too.
  This game pushes the boundaries of what other games fall in front of the story is excellent, the 
 fights are amazing not to even mention the weapons they are perfect. You have a long sword for 
 hard big fights a short blade for quick situations, throwing knives which you have to steal from 
 citizens which are one hit kills, fists obviously (only really used for interrogation) and then 
 theres the best weapon of all the hidden blade which is guaranteed to kill any enemy if you remain 
 hidden this is just the crust of what this game has to offer.
  And the best part of it is theres a massive kingdom to travel through including three cities which 
 will keep you interested for months on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Right from the start this game looks amazing and the graphics almost make you believe it's real. 
 The game starts off great with an easy tutorial and a great way of teaching you how to use the 
 different controls. You soon master the controls and then the game becomes actually too easy to 
 kill anyone. It doesn't stay this way for long as the game does become harder as the story progresses 
 but it still feels as if you kill so many people that the city should of ran out of guards by now. 
 
  
  Besides that small issues there are some other things that got in the way. Every assassination 
 mission you need to do a certain amount of information gathering mission and some view points and 
 save citizens, which everyone of these missions help you. The information gathering gives you helpful 
 hints to how you should assassinate your target, the view points give you map information and saving 
 citizen create either vigilantes or scholars which you can use to hind in. All this in the beginning 
 is fun and very pretty, but soon after you begin to hear the same lines from saving citizens about 
 how they wish their son were as brave as me, it begins to become repetitive, or how you have to 
 sit through the entire dialogue agian if you fail an informer mission. 
  
  These problems are small, but they could of been easily fixed, if your going to use different voice 
 actors for every person atleast give them different lines. It's annoying hearing how this women 
 could of "taken them herself" in 5 different accents after you instantly kill the guards before 
 her eyes. The game can get very repetitive in these ways and it loses the fun it had at the beginning 
 and the view points lose everything they had for them because all they were was a way to show off 
 how amazing the game looks. Everything begins to show almost no purpose as you begin to run through 
 the game because your bored of the repetitive missions. Yes everything has a point but you soon 
 find out that is still didn't even matter if you knew there was a latter to your left of if you 
 could just run up the wall in front of you to catch your target. 
  
  One last piece of criticism is that the story line just wasn't interesting to me after all of the 
 repetition and the game has no end. Yeah I did know that it wouldn't but at least leave it with 
 a good cliff hanger not something where the main character screams "WHAT!" and then the credits 
 start going. All this aside it's an ok game and a nice change from the typical Halo route every 
 other game has been taking during this very monotone point in gaming that people like to call the 
 next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I love the huge, open world present in this game. Everything about it was well done. Excellent 
 graphics, and the game play is SO smooth. The Horseback riding is the best I have seen, the only 
 rival being Shadow of the Colossus. Free running through towns, going up and over barriers and 
 bringing a fight or chase up onto the roofs makes you feel almost like Spider Man, or one of those 
 Parkour guys. 
  
  The fighting mechanics took a very short time to get used to, and once I was used to it I did not 
 even bother running away or avoiding a fight unless I had to. Taking on a dozen armed guards and 
 putting them down one at a time or using combos became one of my favorite parts of the game.
  
  I really love the science fiction aspect of the game, as well. The way that it opens up the 
 storyline for future sequels is nothing short of brilliant. They can take this game any direction 
 they want to - Ancient Japan, Modern Day, - even into the future - and the storyline would still 
 be very valid and could be integrated seamlessly. 
  
  The Graphics are excellent, the Sound and Music is well done, the voice acting is believable - 
 all in all, a great looking and sounding game.
  
  The Gameplay is fun, if maybe a little bit repetitive. But hey, what game isnt? I've probably logged 
 at least a hundred hours into Tetris - and it doesnt get much more repetitive than that. 
  
  This game is definitely going to take up some of my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noahjwhite
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Pro's. 
  Level Design is excellent. The world and it's inhabitants feel alive. It draws you in. The story 
 is good, but a little weird. Music is fantastic. Very fun... read the gamespot review. I agree 
 with most of it.
  
  Con's:
  Missions are repetitive. Back tracking over large areas of land is tiresome (although sometimes 
 you can just warp to a new city) Graphics could be better. I'd sacrifice a few on Screen NPC's 
 for Quality NPC's. Sometimes the voice acting is cheezy. It takes awhile to get used to the controls. 
 IT's too easy overall. . Escaping the gaurds is too hard. Killing all the guards (even if it's 
 20 to 1) is much easier than running from them. 
  
  Bottom Line:
  Great Game. One of the best I've played this year. I'd describe it as an action adventure game. 
 Although it almost plays out like an RPG at times. It does a lot things, and it does them well, 
 but it's not the best at any of them.
  Update 3/5/08. I've now played all the top games of 2008 and this is the game that still sticks 
 out in my mind. Hopefully they will address the mission variety on the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phayse
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed has a fast paced, and immersing story line that will have you wanting to do it 
 over and over again. The vast amount of ways to kill someone is outstanding, coupled with the perfect 
 animations with no body clipping makes assassins creed skyrocket over games like Tenchu Z. The 
 average player will be able to enjoy this game to its full extent. The game is not hard to play 
 and has a very small learning curve. Easy controls, Fast health generation, and easy fighting techniques 
 make dying a challenge, and fun things like hiding in carts of hay make the game enjoyable. Assassins 
 creed simply put is the best ninja type game to date. The graphics of this game are amazing, rivaling 
 Gears of War, even with the 50-100 civilians on the screen interacting with each other the games 
 does not chug frame rate wise. This is a must have for any xbox 360 owner new or old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Pushing through high-street crowds on a Saturday afternoon or squeezing onto a train packed with 
 scowling commuters, it's hard to imagine how any game could find fun in jostling with a belligerent 
 sea of humanity. But with sprawling ancient cities teeming with life and endless opportunities 
 for mischief, Assassin's Creed shrewdly uses pedestrian gridlock as an ever-shifting backdrop for 
 its diverse challenges and brutal combat.
  
  Set during the Third Crusade - and taking in bustling urban centres such as Jerusalem and Damascus 
 - Creed casts players as a member of the Hashshashin sect, devoted to bringing about peace by assassinating 
 key members of rival factions using a blend of sneaking, subterfuge and sickening violence. So 
 far, so Splinter Cell. But aside from its backdrop, what sets the game apart from its peers is 
 clever crowd dynamics that can either land you in hot water or be exploited to your advantage.
 
  
  Need a throwing knife to slice a sentry guarding the castle gates? Then sneak up behind a chubby 
 merchant and steal one from his belt. Being chased through the streets by a bellowing army of soldiers? 
 Then duck around a corner, throw a cowl over your head, and blend in with a group of benevolent 
 monks who'll shield you from harm. But, by the same token, if you show little respect and unceremoniously 
 shove strangers out of the way while on the run, don't be surprised if a passer-by trips you up 
 or points out your lofty hiding place when you're skulking on a balcony.
  
  But while crowds are nothing new in video-games, Creed takes the idea of a living, breathing digital 
 world to impressive new heights; up to 150 characters can appear on the screen at the same time, 
 each composed of random body parts and elaborate costumes that make them seem a world away from 
 GTA's Identikit citizens. And as the city folk will also give you clues to track down targets, 
 provide a wealth of bonus missions and allow you to build alliances with other factions, striking 
 relationships with the people around you can dramatically change how the story unfolds.
  
  When it comes to the nitty-gritty of assassination, the game does a fine job of allowing players 
 to tackle missions in a way that best suits their playing style. For every player who enjoys sneaking 
 into enemy fortresses, there will be others who prefer a more direct assault, Creed's simple interface 
 making either strategy a cinch to execute and allowing even the most cack-handed player to look 
 like a gaming god.
  Ironically, though, the game's friendly controls could also be considered its shortcoming; killing 
 your target normally instigates a chase sequence where you free-run across the rooftops and make 
 fearsome leaps of faith to dodge your pursuers. But the simple control system means that our hero 
 will perform most acrobatic feats automatically, stripping the game of the visceral thrill of making 
 moves at precisely the right moment, as in Prince Of Persia: The Sands Of Time. The result is a 
 far more forgiving game, which limits frustration but hurts the excitement a little, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanamaJack445
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Thoughts:
  This game has a very interesting concept associated with it. The game within a game concept was 
 interesting, though more could've been done with it. Living out the memories of your ancestors, 
 that leaves the door open to a world of possibilities. Now for the nitty gritty review part.
  
  Complaints:
  My biggest complaint is that the game was actually far too easy, and terribly 
 repetitive. The fact that you're character is essentially a more powerful version of Spider Man 
 without the ability to shoot webs gives you an idea of how your skirmishes with guards and assassination 
 targets alike will go. Also, the game is somewhat lacking in depth with reference to your ancestors 
 memories. Though it makes sense why this would be, you can't interact with anyone outside of assassination 
 targets, your mentors and peers that provide cut scenes. Everyone else is off limits. Lastly, the 
 overall concept of killing in broad daylight with a character dressed in all white during the crusades 
 is a bit of a laugh to me. Though the developers were attempting to be different, the concept of 
 stealth being incorporated in a way more akin to Thief would have been better recieved by the fans 
 I think, but maybe not. But the broad daylight killings but a heavily armed, dressed in all white 
 assassin who can essentially outrun, outclimb and out-fight hordes of guards is, to me, terribly 
 unrealistic and detracts from the overall value of the game.
  
  Efforts to be Commended For:
  The graphics were spectactular, and the fluid actions and movements 
 of your character were amazing. The ways you could kill someone gave you countless options for 
 how you wanted to finish a mark. The story is also incredible; this alone makes the game worth 
 playing, as it is a rare quality in current gen games. Loved the acrobatic ability of your character 
 though much of it may have been unnecessary and made your character far too powerful.
  
  Overall Review:
  Good game, great graphics, fluid gameplay, but very repetitive and far too easy. 
 Great story, but terribly unbelievable at times (a large majority of the time) . In the end it is 
 very fun to play and definitely worth the purchase as this will be the first game in yet another 
 epic trilogy by Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Angel_14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + technical masterpiece
  + amazing, expansive overworld
  + free-running over roof tops, and doing the actual assassinations is ALOT of fun
  
  Cons
 
  - Poor A. I.
  - Pretentious Story
  - A Tad Repetive
  - End Focus of Combat Drags A Little
  
  
  
  Ever since it was first shown to the public, 
 Assassin's Creed has been in the eye of the gaming media and has been everyone waiing with anticipation 
 for the first "true" next-gen game, but did it meet those expectations? Well, yes and no, It all 
 depends on what your expectations for a "true" next-gen game are. The game is a technical masterpiece, 
 there is no doubt about that. The graphis are set on stun, and will impress even the most cynical 
 elder peson. Another astoudning feat they have acomplished would have to be how they have created 
 such a large and expansive world for you to climb, jumb, swing, and stab your way through. Never 
 before in gaming has a world felt so real. There are a couple techincal errors liek framerate hiccup, 
 and psyhics- f**k-ups, but those are something that I can tolerate from a game this lofty and ambitious.
 
  
  But with the good, comes the bad. My biggest gripe with the game would probably be with the A. I. 
 . I dont know if it was me, but I foudn the A. I. kind of unfair at times. For instance, I would 
 be walking through the market in jerusilam and everything would be fine, then out of no where you 
 would hear a guard scream "ASSASSIN!", when i had done nothing. I found it insanely frusterating 
 and made it unplayable on ground level, which might have been thre intention, as to focus on rooftops.
 
  
  Another, more common, problem I had was with the story. Personally, I would have much preferred 
 the story to stay in past and of had nothing to do with the present, but unfortunatley. the story 
 and dialouge in the game really up its own a**, and one of the most pretentious I have ever encountered 
 in gaming, which can be best described as a mix between the matrix and bowling for columbine. Also, 
 i found the late game emphasis on combat abit of a drag and makes the last section of the game 
 more of a drag to play than the first couple portions.
  
  But when all is said and done, Assassin's Creed is a techinicla powerhouse, that isnt just pretty 
 to look at, but is for the most part, a fun, enjoyable game (especially free-running, and actually 
 the actual assassinations) , that may have been a tad dissapointing but is still one of this gens 
 better games, thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToySolider62
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is no more than a decent game. Yes i will give it up to the graphics. They did 
 a very good job on that part, however a game needs way more than a pretty face. The controls are 
 very simple, which is a good thing for many people, but the problem with that is.... that theres 
 not much to DO with the controls. For example.... Your on your way to assassinate a target, you 
 get soldiers chasing you, you kill them EASILY, then you run up a building and hide..... thats it.... thats 
 all there is to this game. And the crap that you "find" is ridiculous. Why would i want to find 
 hundreds of stupid flags???? Next the story line.... Its absolutely ridiculous.... Your in the future, 
 and they need YOU for some WEIRD reason, so they strap you to this machine that links you to your 
 ancestors memories? Sounds more like something you would hear from a sub-par movie script. Not 
 to mention the ending (yes i know it IS a trilogy) however, at the end of Halo there was a sense 
 of accomplishment. At the end of this game theres NOTHING. The doctor leaves the room, and it seems 
 as if theres a little bit left.... then you get the achievement for beating the game in the most 
 awkward moments. Generally i feel the game is pretty, But stale. It has easy controls which is 
 better for more casual gamers, or younger less experienced gamers, which might be a good thing, 
 or it could be hurting the gaming industry. But as it says, i give it a 6.0 which is = to 60%, 
 and according to every school i have been to, that means a big fat F.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackMrOrange
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10: Truly amazing visuals and beautiful landscapes mask a truly repetitive game. Everything 
 is so finely detailed, and everything has a perfectly matching shadow.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10: Wow. Here is where the game falls very, very short. The game has the most repetetive 
 gameplay; save that same citizen being attacked by the same guards, pickpocket that guy, eavesdrop 
 on that conversation, kill that dude. Also, to top it off, it is unbeleivably easy, offering almost 
 no challenge. The fight system is okay, but it leaves alot out. Your health regenerates way too 
 fast, and you have too much of it. Fights seem painfully repetetive as time passes. Also, there 
 is nothing to do after you find all flags, save all citizens and reach all view points.
  
  Sound:8/10: The sound is good, with good voice actors and good sound effects. But there isnt much 
 music, aside from missions and fights.
  
  Value: 6/10: I wouldnt spend $60 on this, maybe I would spend about $20, but nothing more.
  
 
  Buy or rent: rent first, and if you actually like this enough, you can go waste $60 on it.
  
  So if you like doing the same blasted thing over and over, go ahead. Buy it. But youll regret 
 it... muhuhahaha
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShattyFattmas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Lets rewind time a bit, 05' right after E3. I heard about this incredible game called Assassins 
 creed. From the moment that I first read the article, to the moment that I watched the first trailer, 
 I was hooked. "I'll have to wait 2 years for this?!" I thought. Well, the wait wasn't so bad. The 
 time flew by.
  
  So now fast-forward to launch day. I picked uped my copy of the Limited edition. Now, first I'm 
 gonna vent up the quality of the Limited Edition. On the back it says "Collectible Altair action 
 figure, Mini Strategy Guide, Penny Arcade Comics, Short films, Behind the Scenes Footage, Trailers, 
 and much much more." Well first off theres no much much more. 
  
  Soon after opening it up my friend calls to inform me that his Altair figure has its feet snapped 
 off. I thought mine was fine. I was wrong. Upon further examination I noticed that Mine had the 
 sword snapped clear off. All the advertisements of a art book and Strategy Guide was wrong, it 
 was a preview, a PREVIEW! What the hell. Now onto the Dvd, besides some okay footage, its really 
 nothing at all worth while.
  
  So, time for me to talk about the game. For the first few hours or so my only thought was that 
 it was a letdown. Soon after my third assassination it grew a little more on me. Now, don't get 
 me wrong. I'm not saying it turned into a great game. The investigation for each assassination 
 are the same. It gets boring. Luckily the actual assassinations bring it all together. 
  
  Combat actual very fluid, and fun. The free running aspect is by far the best aspect of the game. 
 Be it running from rooftops, climbing towers, or whatever its always fun and it controls without 
 a hitch.
  
  Ubisoft teased of a big twist, well it did very well surprise me. Not the actual twist, but that 
 they reveal it within the first 2 mins of the game! Which leads me onto the story. While not, but 
 not strong its indefinitely contrived. A little bit of a bummer. 
  
  Overall Assassins creed is a fun, exciting game. Just down expect it to live up to all the previous 
 hype. Its a enjoyable experience. Worth a buy? Yes if you liked the way it looked pre release. 
 No if your on the fence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeekendWarrior9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Put simply, Assassin's Creed is the most fun I've ever had playing a video game. The controls are 
 simple, but not the point of oversimplification. The story is wonderful, but not at the price of 
 gameplay. The gameplay is amazing, and just plain a ton of fun. The free-roaming gameplay increases 
 the replayability to the point that you could run through the campaign a hundred times and have 
 it turn out differently every time. Running around on rooftops and climbing the sides of buildings 
 is intensely satisfying, and looks remotely plausible although Altar must be hurting after some 
 of the jumps across city streets you take. While fighting off a few dozen guards is a lot of fun, 
 the best part of the game is the stealth assassinations. Sneaking up behind a guard or templar 
 and sticking a knife between his ribs without anyone noticing is immensely rewarding. The combat 
 system is easy to learn, but hard to master. Combos and countering make it possible to cinematically 
 eliminate dozens of guards without button mashing, and fighting multiple people keeps you on your 
 toes, seeing as you could be combo-ing someone when another guard decides to take a swipe at you.
 
  The different weapons all have a distinct personality as well. The sword is the easiest to counter 
 and combo with, but isn't as fast as the short sword or the assassination blade, which could cost 
 you your life in some of the fights. The assassination blade is fast and deadly, killing anything 
 with one hit but getting those hits in is much harder to do with the blade than with either of 
 the other weapons. The short sword is a good balance, and after you get throwing knives you can 
 kill at range with the short sword equipped. All of the weapons have different cinematics when 
 you counter or combo, making all of the fun to use.
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is in my opinion not only the best game out this year, but the best 
 Xbox 360 game ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otacon_Banner
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  A: GAME WAS WAY TOO EASY
  B: GAME WAS WAY TOO BORING
  C: REPETITIVE MUCH
  D: TOO MANY STUPID GLITCHES THAT AFTER 3 YEARS OF MAKING SHOULD'NT HAVE BEEN IN THERE
  E: AI WAS 
 TERRIBLE
  F: VOICE ACTING WAS TERRIBLE
  
  GAME WAS QUITE A LOOKER BUT GAMEPLAY WISE IT LACKED SO MUCH. YOU CAN FINISH THE GAME IN HALF A 
 DAY AND ITS WAY TOO EASY AND BORING TO KEEP DOING THE SAME THINGS OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER 
 AND OVER... FOR WHAT 9 TIMES... SERIOUSLY JADE RAYMOND... COME ON
  
  THE STORY LINE WAS GOOD AND SOMETHING YOU COULD GET INTO BUT FOR THAT SHORT PERIOD OF TIME IT WAS 
 A WASTE... ESP FOR ANYONE WHO PURCHASED THE LIMITED EDITION THINKING AHEAD THAT THIS GAME WAS GOING 
 TO BE AWESOME... I THOUGHT THE GAME WAS AWEFUL HONESTLY. 5.5
  
  YEAH THIS REVIEW WAS MEAN AND COULD HAVE BEEN WORDED BETTER BUT THEY COULD HAVE MADE A BETTER GAME 
 SO... NO WERE EVEN
  
  
  ANYONE WHO LIKE TO ARGUE THIS : GAMERTAG: VAKA32BIT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  As this game has no multiplayer it will be an easier review and should turn many away. The storyline 
 is meant to be a triology so I will also give it some slack, like I did for Pirates of the Carribean 
 and boy was that a mistake. 
  
  The game has two in depth storylines both involving two people who are strangley related only through 
 genetics. I will try not to ***Spoil*** anything but there's my warning just in case. I will follow 
 the storyline of Altair, the other person is very useful and finding out information on to what 
 is going to happen in future games and he will actually be the first guy you will really play as, 
 and that is where the 'memory glitches' come into play along with the DNA Synchronization Bar... 
 that is all that I will tell about this mysterious character. 
  
  Altair is the person all are familiar with, the sword wielding assassin. In the begining of the 
 game you can tell that you are indeed hot stuff, you are highly revered by many and even have your 
 own fair share of followers. Soon the game takes a dive and one of the followers die, and another 
 is gravely injured you are soon, how should I put this, shanked into losing your high stature and 
 the game begins. Your master gives you a list of names and off you go to assassinate them. The 
 only interruption to this medvival storyline is inbetween most assassinations and you introduced 
 into the other charcter. 
  
  The fighting is fairly simple, you can either sneak attack and hide from everyone or take on tons 
 of soldiers at once. Both of which are fun, but you will end up fighting more than one person at 
 a time. The weapons that you recieve in the game is a sword, a short sword, throwing knives, and 
 the dreaded hidden blade. You also have the ability to fight with your fists, but come on that's 
 only fun when harrasing random people in the streets. Counters can be done with each weapon except 
 the throwing knives with a push of the button at the right time. Dodging and combo kills can also 
 be done by pressing a button at the right time. 
  
  The controls are fairly easy and even though there are many they can be learned within the first 
 30 mins. Holding down the RT allows Altair to go into "High Profile Mode" which allows him to jump, 
 run and tackle. Other things can be done with the RT such as block. The other buttons are all pretty 
 much used and when using them you command a different part of the body. The Y button controls the 
 head/eyes. The X button controls your left arm or in other words your attack button. The A button 
 controls your feet. And the B button controls your right arm which is used to grab objects. It 
 all works smoothly, but sometimes the control stick seems to sensitive to the game having weird 
 jumps here and there. 
  
  The sound and music is pretty good. The music has a medival or a middle eastern feel to it, with 
 a dash of techno in some places. The voice acting is good, but seems out of place when everyone 
 either speaks with an english or french accent in the game, while it takes place in the middle 
 east. Dying noises seem much to real at some points, and the little things passerby say can make 
 even the hardest people laugh. 
  
  The graphics are amazing and have very little frame rate issues. But there are some when piles 
 of bodies start to stack around the cities. Lighting is a little under developed in my opinon and 
 facial expressions seem almost non-existant. There are some other issues in graphics where glitches 
 can be seen and you will see them.
  
  Overall the game is solid, but seems to be very repetitive. Only people who want a good action, 
 medival, or exploration game should really look into this. Or if one wants to see a good story 
 unfold this is another reason to look into this. The game can take anywhere from 8 hours if you 
 do the absolute minimum, to well over 20 if you do everything. There is little replay value, unless 
 you like to show off to your friends as anyone can make themselves look good with a well placed 
 counter, high profile kill, or leap of faith.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed.
  
  Isn't this the game that everyone's been waiting for forever? Isn't this the game that was supposed 
 to make history? Yeah, it was; but it didn't. Now don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the game; I just 
 don't think it's worth a full $60.
  
  And here's why:
  
  The graphics were a real disappointment. There were some nice textures, lighting, and animations 
 but it was all marred by a terrible frame-rate and loads of screen tearing. Not to mention the 
 deliberate clipping of Altiar's clothing as he walked on ledges. COME ON UBISOFT!!!! Also, there 
 wasn't enough variety to the world the game takes place in. Almost every citizen and soldier you 
 encounter looks just like every other citizen and soldier you encounter and the environments get 
 stale too. How many times have i climbed a building today?? It also doesn't seem very alive either, 
 it's just another open world game. That's it.
  The gameplay isn't very interesting either. Of course it is open world so it can get stale at times 
 but this just isn't fun for a game that's supposed to be a cut above everything else. You have 
 four weapons at your disposal: your sword, your throwing knife, your fists, and your hidden blade. 
 You can choose any of these weapons to fight but each of them work best in different situations. 
 Your sword is for main combat which mainly consists of a well placed counter and a ton of button 
 mashing. This also applies to thge throwing knife but you can at least take a few guys out from 
 a distance first. Fist are used for interrogations (which are always the same) , and your hidden 
 blade is used for assassinations (which are the game's only redeeming qualities) . Other than fighting 
 you spend your time jumping off buildings, pickpocketing people, eavesdropping, favors (which is 
 always a hit on some random guy) , and yes interrogation. Sounds fun right? that's what i thought 
 but it's ALWAYS the same and it just gets boring. (You also ride horses around but i though it 
 was unnecessary to mention that) .
  Assassin's Creed sounds fabulous. The voice actors are top-knotch and the music is well composed, 
 it's just a shame the actual game itself doesn't measure up; even though it does have spectacular 
 production values.
  In the end, Assassin's Creed is solid enough for a play or to here and there but it's not worth 
 devoting your attention to when there are so many other games out there that can hold it alot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russcripps
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game is graphically brilliant and for the first 5 hours it is graphically fantastic. The downside 
 is the next 5-20 hours are just the same repititve mission, ie pick pocket somebody, save a citizen, 
 climb a tower, jump off the tower, kill some guards, kill some more guards etc etc..... Graphically 
 the game is imense and this should be noted, however the lack of real new missions quickly wears 
 of within the first 10 hours when you quickly realise its the same game over and over. The combat 
 side is good and you can quickly win battles against 50 plus foes. Good but no way a 9 or 10 out 
 of 10, perhaps I have copy that is missing another 50% gameplay and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy2o3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I like to say that Assassins Creed is a very visually stunning game. The animations to the environment 
 we very compelling. The story line was good as well. You start off with everything then loose it 
 and have to earn it back by doing the missions. This game did lack customization and I thought 
 this game could have easily been a good Action RPG is the developers took the time. The game play 
 was good but I hated the loading times after you die.. It definitely should be faster. When you 
 go back to the future there wasn't much things you can do except walk around and press a button. 
 You couldn't jump or run around or knock anything down. They made this more like a movie then a 
 game with one specific goal is which is to finish the game. I believe Assassins creed falls short 
 of being a great game because of these flaws and thats why I rate it an 8/10.... And for the record.. 
 the ending sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sayleb
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  I have no idea how gamespot could have rated this game a 9.0. It is a beautiful looking game that 
 should earn a 10 for graphics. However, the gameplay is ridiculously repetitive and fails to even 
 become difficult. Aggro a hundred guards, go on top of a building, and use the counter kill until 
 they are all done. Rinse and repeat, thats the game. 
  The storyline is one of the most pathetic parts of the game. I think about 80% of the people who 
 played this game could have written a more interesting storyline. 
  This is just a typical example of how the gaming industry spends millions of dollars hyping up 
 a game, then simply bribes gamespot to rate it well, forcing hundreds of thousands of us to buy 
 the game. I wish I could have spent 5 dollars to rent this rather than 65 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Story
  The overall story within Assassin's Creed is set in September 2012, where barkeeper Desmond Miles 
 (the character controlled by the player) has been kidnapped by an unknown person prior to the start 
 of the game, and is brought to Abstergo Industries, where researchers are working on the Animus 
 project. The Animus is able to pull out memories from ancestors of the user, allowing the user 
 to replay those memories as if he were there himself. Desmond was "chosen" for the project due 
 to his relationship to his ancestor Altar Ibn La-Ahad  
 Al-taa-ir in Arabic) , a member of the Assassins during the Third Crusade of the Holy Land; the 
 researchers express interest in understanding more of how the Assassins worked. Though initially 
 Desmond's sub-conscious rejects the memories of Altar, he eventually learns to accept them and 
 is able to proceed to follow Altar's actions through the Animus.
  
  The memories of Altar that Desmond experiences start in AD 1191: Richard the Lionheart has just 
 recaptured the port city of Acre from occupying Muslims. With a base of operations established, 
 the Crusaders prepare to march south. Their true target is Jerusalem  which they intend to recapture 
 for Christianity. However, Saladin, leader of the Islamic army, currently rules the city. Stinging 
 from his army's defeat at Acre, he will not allow Richard to humiliate him again. The Muslim forces 
 are massing in the ruins of Arsuf, intending to ambush the Crusaders and prevent them from reaching 
 Jerusalem. These war maneuvers have left the rest of the Holy Land wide open. While Richard and 
 Saladin battle one another, the men left to govern in their stead have begun taking advantage of 
 their newfound positions of power. Exploitation, manipulation, and provocation rule the day.
  
  The first memory Desmond experiences is that of Altar failing to assassinate the Grand Master 
 of The Templar Knights, Robert de Sable, and recover the order's treasure. Due to this, Altar 
 is demoted to Uninitiated (the lowest rank in the Assassin Order) . But Al Mualim, leader of the 
 Assassins, offers him an opportunity to redeem himself. Altar must venture out into the Holy Land 
 and assassinate nine men said to be exacerbating and exploiting the hostilities created by the 
 Third Crusade. In doing so, he will stabilize the region, allowing Mualim to usher in an age of 
 peace.
  
  
  Cryptic messages on the wall of Desmond's bedroom at the end of the gameAlong the way, however, 
 Altar discovers that his targets are bound by more than just a shared interest in personal gain, 
 but are in fact Templars themselves, with the goal to unite all mankind under a common cause. Desmond 
 further learns from emails when left overnight between sessions that Abstergo Industries is run 
 by modern-day Templars, who are seeking the locations of several artifacts known as the "Pieces 
 of Eden" that they can use to continue to Templars' goals. Desmond learns that he was kidnapped 
 by the company so that they may learn, through Altar's memories, where the locations of the other 
 pieces of eden may be buried throughout the world. He also finds that what remains of the Assassin's 
 Guild in modern day had tried and failed to recover him before that information could be learned. 
 Altar's memories finally reveal that the assignment he undertook was a ploy by the Templars to 
 sow discord between the Assassins and the Crusaders and Muslims. In doing so, Saladin and Richard 
 The Lionheart would instead work together and fight the Assassins, and in the process, bringing 
 peace for the Templars. Altar finally catches up with Robert de Sable, his last assigned target, 
 and defeats him. Robert de Sable reveals in his dying words that Altar's master is also a member 
 of the Templars, and he has now the sole power of the artifact, the "Piece of Eden" that is able 
 to alter what men can see and can be used for mass hypnosis. Altar travels to face his Master, 
 who wields the "Piece of Eden", attempting to alter Altar's sight, but eventually falls to his 
 blade. As Altar recovers the "Piece of Eden", the device activates one more time to reveal multiple 
 locations across the globe in an holographic manner.
  
  With Altar's memory complete, Desmond wakes up out of the Animus to learn that Abstergo Industries 
 is already sending out recovery teams to those locations hoping to find additional artifacts. Desmond, 
 no longer being of use to Abstergo Industries, is to be silenced; however, he is saved by Lucy, 
 who reveals herself to be an Assassin by showing Desmond that she lacks her ring finger on her 
 left hand, just as all Assassin's had removed as part of their initiation. In the conclusion of 
 the game, Desmond, having become "synchronized" with Altar, is able to use the eagle vision (a 
 sort of empathic sight to see hidden messages and tell friend from foe) , and sees messages scrawled 
 across the floors and walls that only he can see that refer to the end of the world described by 
 several religions, among other writings; such writings include references to the biblical passage 
 Revelation 22:13 ("I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the 
 end.") , a Lorenz Attractor, the Eye of Providence, and other writings in foreign languages. Additionally, 
 there is the Mayan date of 13.0.0.0 - December 21, 2012 - which is only 3 months away within the 
 game's timeline, that represents the Mayan last day of this age of the world.
  
  
  Gameplay
  Assassin's Creed is a third-person stealth game, in which the player primarily controls 
 the assassin Altar through computer-rendered memories experienced by Desmond. The primary goal 
 of the game is to use stealth and other tactics to complete nine assassinations, though prior to 
 strike out for the target, the player must perform a minimum number of intelligence missions, whether 
 by eavesdropping, interrogation, or pickpocketing information from a given target. Additionally, 
 the player may be made aware of other opportunities to use the assassin's skill, from climbing 
 tall towers to map out the city, or to save citizens from being threatened by others. Many of the 
 acrobatic skills mimic those found in Ubisoft Montreal's previous Prince of Persia games.
  
  The player is made aware of how observable Altar is to enemy guards as well as the current 
 state of alert in the local area. To perform many of the assassinations and other tasks, the player 
 must consider the use of both "low profile" and "high profile" commands. "Low profile" commands 
 allow Altar to blend into nearby crowds, gently pass by other citizens, or other non-threatening 
 tasks that can be used to hide and reduce the alertness level. "High profile" commands are more 
 noticeable, and including running, scaling the sides of buildings to climb to higher vantage points, 
 and attacking foes; performing these actions at certain times may raise the local area's awareness 
 level. Once the area is at high alert, the player must use both low profile commands as well as 
 aiming to climb away from ground level or using hiding spaces to reduce the alertness level. The 
 player, as they complete the assigned assassinations, will gain either new weapons or new combat 
 skills including counter-attacks and attack dodges. Besides his fists, a sword, a long knife, and 
 throwing knives, Altar gains the use of a hidden retractable blade on his left arm that can be 
 used for killing targets at very close quarters without creating any immediately alerts, though 
 if others come across the body, the alertness level may be raised. This is the most noticeable 
 difference between low and high profile. A low profile assassination can be performed as little 
 as a few feet of other guards or soldiers with out attracting attention, whereas a high profile 
 assassination attack will be noticed by everyone within eyesight.
  
  
  During gameplay, intentional glitches that include organic compounds and computer messages will 
 flash on the screen. The player's health is described as the level of synchronization between Desmond 
 and Altar's memories; should Altar take damage, some amount of synchronization is lost, and if 
 all synchronization is lost, the current memory that Desmond is experiencing will be restarted 
 at the last checkpoint. When the synchronization bar is full, the player has additional options 
 at their disposal, such as using "eagle vision" which causes the computer-rendered memory to highlight 
 all visible characters in colors corresponding to whether they are friend or foe or even the target 
 of their assassination. Due to Altar's memories being rendered by the computer of the Animus project, 
 the player may experience "glitches" in the rendering of the historical world, which may help the 
 player to identify targets, or can be used to alter the viewpoint during in-game scripted scenes 
 should the player react fast enough when they appear.
  
  The game itself is divided into four cities from the 12th Century: Jerusalem, Damascus, Acre, and 
 Masyaf, and all but Masyaf contain three sections that are unlocked over the course of the game. 
 An approximation of the land lying between these areas is present in the game as "The Kingdom."
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tenaciousness
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Ok, so it is very pretty Ill give you that - Ubisoft spent plenty of time making the controls smooth, 
 the graphics sharp with no noticeable slowdown even when you are chopping through the entire palace 
 guard. The story is enticing, even if - in my opinion - the ending is a little weak. What really 
 lets this game down is the god damn tedium. I swear, if I have to enter another city section to 
 climb another arbitrary number of towers to do the same investigations whilst saving the same citizens 
 over and over again... its gonna get messy.
  
  Rather than finding that this was a game I compulsively couldn't put down, I found it was one I 
 had to put down after each assassination because I couldn't face the prospect of another soul wrenching 
 climb up another bleedin tower for the debatable reward of locating a few more vigilante's or scholars. 
 I mean, they just did not think it through. 
  
  The combat system is finely polished, but once you unlock the countering ability the hordes of 
 onrushing guards are less a fear inspiring threat than a tedious obstacle to be dismembered one 
 by one till you fling a dagger into the spine of the last man. Where has the stealth gone? I mean, 
 take thief; in that sure you COULD kill the highly trained guards - but they were highly trained, 
 it was a challenge. In this, you don't meet a single enemy you can't dispatch with a well timed 
 counter and a few following bashes. Where has the challenge gone?
  
  Even the assassinations are tedious, where are the poisoned chalices? the falling masonry the set 
 pieces that leave you anonymous? Nowhere, it's put the blade in time after time after time, kill 
 the guards, run to ground. Even the information you secure has almost no relevance to the kill 
 itself. Who cares where the guards are when you inevitably dispatch all 50 of them in one massive 
 brawl where you counter every one of their hugely telegraphed strikes?
  
  As i said, gets old real fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fcalzada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  An amazing Game!!!!!!!!!!! wouaw 'a se taper le cul au sol mille fois'
  I haven't so much fun for a long time. The graphics are gorgeous. The gameplay is great and, the 
 context is new. Assassin's Creed merges technology, game design, theme, and emotions into a world. 
 Assassin's Creed merges technology, game design, theme, and emotions into a world
  
  
  This is THE game i was looking for a long time.
  I just love AC!!!!! on xbox this game is amazing
 
  
  This is THE game i was looking for a long time.
  I just love AC!!!!! on xbox this game is amazing
  
  This is THE game i was looking for a long 
 time.
  I just love AC!!!!! on xbox this game is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: il_dottore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  One of my most wanted game, Assassin Creed didn't disappointed my expectations at all.
  Let's start from the package. Great cover art, not so great manual, I wished to see a detailed 
 full color paper support, but it's a bit poor. Anyway The idea behind the concept is good. It looks 
 like it was written by a scientist try to explain animus controls, with some funny (or useful) 
 side notes from her boss.
  But even if the paper support is not so bright we are not gonna miss it. Game tutorials are quite 
 good and can help you to go trough the game without so many problems. By the way it takes to me 
 almost five tries to pass trough the jar carriers on tutorial, because I was tapping the button 
 instead of simply hold it. As the manual say, holding a button is much more effective than simply 
 tapping hit.
  
  In game graphics is extra good. Every place is fully characterized with a lot of small details 
 that makes the cities we move in "alive". We can move in a beautiful environment , fully immersed 
 on amazing architectures and of course we can move on their roofs.
  Even minor characters are well done: beggars, merchants and prophets just like act as they are 
 reals, and, believe me, it's extra tough to get rid of a insisting beggar.
  Animations are smooth and well made, without excess but perfect in their sobriety.
  A particular 
 mention to Faith Jump, where Altair stretch his arms and perform a sort of angel flight dive. The 
 sensation of the falling is so real and give me creeps.
  
  Game controls are sharp and extra intuitive. Looks really difficult to make Altair perform is incredible 
 range of maneuvers but it's not at all, and after few minutes of game every player will be easily 
 able to jump on roofs, climbs walls and perform all the sort of acrobatics .
  In effect even if assassins are supposed to act with discretion it's to funny to run on the roofs, 
 jump on the wall and perform all the "free run" moves.
  Fights are good too, even if our digital alter ego doesn't have a very large arsenal of weapon, 
 he can perform a variety of grab, parry and attacks. He can even choose to engage his target from 
 far with trowing knives. But I really felt the lack of a decent ranged weapon, like a crossbow 
 to assassinate target from roofs.
  However kill targets with hidden blade his really extra fun.
  
  Gameplay is good, almost perfect. 
 It's fun to go trough the reign and simply watch the country, climbing walls and exploring the 
 land mounting on a horse. It's even better to have something do to, like planning an assassination. 
 But I preferred a little more interaction. Like speak with people, open doors, move indoor and 
 so on. Instead you can interact only with few characters and most of them aren't really deep. Gathering 
 informations it's too simple, just sit down and look at your targets instead of go around and speak 
 with people to guess things.
  I wished to see a little more interactions, like pick a lock in order to get trough places, retrieves 
 items and so on but even like this the game is fun and solid.
  
  The story is well made and fascinating. Move Altairs in crusade time Palestine, trough plots and 
 treacheries and mysterious secret associations is really intriguing. Story will evolve trough time 
 and every accomplishment lead a step toward the understanding of the entire plot.
  
  Overall a very good game, my only regret it's it will be really perfect without some small graphics 
 glitches and a bit more improved gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archer7527
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a fun game with a simple control system with great graphics and nice combo 
 moves. The best thing is that you can accomplish a task anyway you want! Although slightly glitchy, the 
 gameplay and storyline is more than enough to keep you satisfied for a long time. It is a blend 
 between the past and the present with a little bit about the future at the end of the game. At the 
 end of the game you can use eagle visions and uncove some mysterious hidden texts which will keep 
 you anticipating for the sequel. Overall, the game is a must buy and has lots of replayability, whether 
 it is hunting down templars, scaling view points or searching flags, this game will keep you occupied 
 for a very long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw_and_wet
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  When assassin creed announced quite a while ago, I didn't think the game will be that great. I 
 thought the game is gonna be hard to control and the storyline will be whole bunch of BS...... 
 but turn out, Assassin creed is the best adventure game I've ever played in my life.
  
  The plot of the game is quite interesting, and it's better for everyone to find out themselves.
 
  
  But generally you play as Altair, a professional assassin (maybe the best in the clan....) who 
 sent out to a mission to kill some guy, and your arrogance got you and your brothers into trouble. 
 So you master got mad and took away all your weapons and you have to be a student once again.... 
 And so, you have to obey your master and kill the guys he ask you to kill.
  
  enough with the background story. The best thing about the game IMO is the fighting and the platforming, 
 all the movements make you feel like a real, professional assassin. Basically all the buildings 
 are able to climb, it is hard to describe but it is so cool to just climb the buildings and just 
 jump around the town. But it is not the best part, in the game you have 4 weapons to carry, a long 
 blade, short blade hidden blade and your fists. I rarely use my fists unless I needed to use them 
 for investigation. My personal favorite is hidden blade and long blade. The hidden blade allow 
 you to assassinate your target in high or low profile, and it is soooooo cool to kill your targets. 
 In fighting sequence, you basically use long blade as your primary weapon, well you can also use 
 you short blade. Anyway, the counter attack and the combo kill just looks cool. Plus you can also 
 use throwing knife to kill distant target. Although the moves looks complicated, but all of them 
 are easy to use.
  
  The game look absolutely gorgeous, all the buildings and environment looks real. The water effect 
 also looks pretty good, but the bad thing is that your character can't swim.........
  
  Overall, assassin creed is a amazing adventure game allow you to walk around the town and basically 
 kill whoever you want, the world is full of freedom and fun to explore. Assassin creed is definitely 
 a must-play this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: syren_sleeper
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  i just could not wait to get this game my hype was so high i persuaded my friend to buy this game 
 he bought it and i played it LOL. ok anyway ubisoft montreal made this game you know splinter cell, prince 
 of persia it shows a lot in this game. the screen far back like splinter cell combat like prince 
 of persia with stealth like splinter cell. assassin's creed is such an awesome game you can throw 
 knives diffirent types of blades in some parts you can counter attack so many move to do which 
 will you start with?. overeall graphics are stellar. sound is incredible. who ever does not lik this 
 game is so far out of their mind its not even funny. anywho this game will blow you away. the absolute 
 best 
  game this year besides a couple of games no time. this is the perfect gift this holiday season. go 
 buy it now!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YagiBoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely stunning on an HD TV. The game play is just right, the learning curve seems 
 well thought out, and I simply can't say enough about the visuals. To fight through a group of 
 guards with balletic counter-strikes and then climb up the tower they were guarding to survey the 
 landscape -- it really looks like you are playing a movie. The tasks and sidejobs/minigames are fun 
 and just interesting enough. The only possible criticism I have is the context story, in which 
 your character has to keep getting in and out of a memory simulator and go to bed. I think those 
 scenes just seem like pointless interludes. The idea of the action being a memory trace is interesting 
 in itself, and perhaps a conceit that will allow future games to visit other periods in time (feudal 
 Japan, anyone?) . Other than the slow cut scenes involving the memory device, this is the game to 
 be playing. Hats off to Ubisoft! NOTE: Have played the game through several times by now, and really 
 love the mechanics and the setting. I lowered the score slightly because of the terribly clunky 
 side story and lack of variation in the missions on replay. Still, I kept the score high overall 
 because of the stunning environments and superior game play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox3586
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I do not own a Xbox 360 (I played my brothers to beat this game) , but I will get one because of 
 this game.
  
  Graphics: 10 
  Top notch. Good theme. Great presentation. Amazing character models. Jaw-dropping draw distances.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9 
  Fun fun fun. Killing is possible stealthy or kamikazee style. Either is great. The drawback are 
 the insane amount of talking you must endure (without skipping or leaving the area. ARG!)
  Repitive sidequests are not as intriguing as they could be, but they go by quickly. Also, the game 
 is rather easy. This is surprising and a little disappointing
  
  Sound: 10 
  Completes the look and never detracts from it. Voice works is great except for the main character. 
 Whats up with that?
  
  Overall: 10
  This game ends. Thats the biggest downside to Assassins Creed. I rented it and beat it fairly easily 
 in the 5 days. If you are not interested in the free roam afterwards, then rent. Even so, this 
 game grabs you and won't let go. So you might be buying it (and a whole Xbox 306) soon after you 
 play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a very impressive game to look at. Climbing to the top of the gothic cathedral, 
 in Acre, and observing the city below is an amazing experience. The environments are realistic 
 (organic) lighting effects are great, with shadows being cast by every object. Altar will bend 
 his body to squeeze between people on crowded streets, and the way he climbs buildings looks believable, 
 even though it is probably not humanly possible to do some of the feats he does in the game.
  
  There are some complaints about the game; firstly, there is a repetitive feel to the game, 
 especially towards the midpoint of the story and beyond. Additionally the path finding/ climbing 
 seems more difficult when being chased by guards. Altar seems to want to jump where you don't 
 want him to when you're trying to run from guards. This isn't a big deal, because combat in the 
 game is fun and rewarding, and it is easy! You can block, attack, and do a couple of counter-combo 
 moves. & once you get those down, all you have to do is enjoy the show. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one of the funnest 360 game to date. The graphics are gorgous. The gameplay 
 is so much fun because of all the cool things you can do. This game blows away many of this years 
 AAA titles. The story is one of the most well written in a long time. I usually do not like these 
 kind of games but man this is one of the best of the year. This game is no let down, this game 
 is not perfect, but this game is still a great game. I recommend this game to anyone who like GTA, 
 crackdown, Dead Rising or saints row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitehawk_77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  if the fighting was not the best i have seen in a game this game would be a 5. its the same thing 
 over and over. the controls arent as responsive as they could have been. the side quests are all 
 the same. the game looked beautiful and the fighting was prime but even they get tedious. it needed 
 more subtance they could have done so much more with that game. like you could have gone on acutally 
 adventures between cities. and gone to different cities. the side quest could have been on the 
 way as well as in the towns. maybe they could have had a number of different ways which you could 
 assassinate people that might have helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed
  
  This generation is full of shooters, it's making everybody sick. No they're not bad games but rather 
 something that became staple after learning "how to do shooters" in a console. Thankfully there 
 are some games that does not involve shooting. And it's not Viva Pinata or Kameo. Assassins Creed 
 is one of these games that take great risks in a genre that is not widely explored. A setting that 
 nobody hardly goes to is hardly convincing for any gamer that plays shooters. But here we are, 
 playing an addictive game that's sure to captivate even the most hardcore FPS guy out there. 
 
  
  Assassins Creed is not a game that we haven't seen or been in. But it's a game that's executed 
 well enough that it's actually refreshing for everybody. The story of the game is about Altair, 
 a master assassin that almost got his team killed during the first attempt to assassinate a powerful 
 figure. Spoilers aside, you must journey through out the land and assassinate nine people that 
 threatens the balance of peace. In doing so, you get to travel into three unique, if not historically 
 accurate, cities. These includes Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem. They all have varying levels of 
 architecture which are appropriate for each city.
  
  What makes the game so fun is the ability to leap from buildings. Scaling up walls and hopping 
 from one structure to another is exhilarating. It gives the player a sense of rush when being pursued 
 by enemies. Not to mention that the animation is flawless. The transition from one structure to 
 another is something that we have not seen in games. If we did, it wasn't done this well. The combat 
 is rewarding too, it gives you a cinematic feel whenever you have a fight with a bunch of guys. 
 It's like kung fu only with swords. It's also easy to disengage in a fight if you have to.
  
  Having said this, Assassin's Creed's highlight is the people that live in each of the cities. 
 It's a living breathing world that demands so much attention. Going through a busy street or market 
 is really different because the player does not know what to expect. There are people who will 
 beg for money, drunkards that will shove you and mentally unstable people that are, well, unstable. 
 These group of people are not just there for your amusement but they're there to make it harder 
 to assassinate the people that needs assassinating. In order to do this, the player must "investigate" 
 his target first. This usually boils down to saving citizens, eavesdropping, informant and pickpocketing 
 missions. Gathering information is essential in order to get to know and access your target. It's 
 not necessarily a hassle to complete these side quests, because they are so easy, but for people 
 who are perfectionist this is the way to go. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is your typical open world game that borrows elements from other games like GTA 
 and Mercenaries. They are not the same but in a whole a lot similar to each other. It does not 
 mean that the game is not unique. It's certainly one of the first games of this generation to feature 
 a different setting. And one of the few games that does not involve guns. Well, it's certainly 
 violent but fun at the same time. Seeing someone getting impaled, stab and slash by Altair is such 
 a delight. Your enemies will be aggressive or run for there life if it's not going they're way. 
 They will swarm you in a fashion, that so clich on other swash buckling movies. 
  
  This is one of the complaints that the game has. The AI is brain dead, it's just plain stupid. 
 It's predictable too. If you kill his companion beside him, he wouldn't even react to what happened. 
 In some instances, they'll just ignore it. It's not just the AI but how the enemies are programmed 
 to find you. I mean, you're a master Assassin right? So all the moves that you do they can also 
 do. They're wearing body armor yet they move so gracefully. Another noticeable thing is the repetitive 
 side quest missions and recycled voice work with it. It's not bad, but it gets pretty boring saving 
 citizens all over again. And you can't swim. Overall though, this does not ruin the overall experience. 
 These minor things vanish quickly as soon as you pick a fight. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is definitely one of the unique experiences that I have ever had. It's execution 
 is well thought out and the setting is refreshing for a change. Overall the game is a definite 
 pick for this coming holiday season. If you can get pass by some of the minor problems that it 
 has, this game is worth the purchase. You definitely get what you paid for. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is very hard to review for the simple reason that it has so many great ideas and 
 so many wonderful things to offer from top to bottom.
  however, I will try to sum up the beauties of this piece of Art.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a stunner 
 when it comes to graphics, it simply is one of the best looking games out. large maps with so many 
 details and huge cities with thousands and thousands of citizens walking, talking, interacting 
 with each others and much more. I mean , that's alone a huge accomplishment to be attributed to 
 Ubisoft. beautiful world and immersive atmosphere with unlimited amount of details and intact textures 
 and character models... just WAW !! I could not stop being impressed with how gorgeous this game 
 looks all the way along. 
  
  AC has a very immersive gameplay that never let you unentertained even for a second. You can do 
 a whole bunch of crazy stuff from jumping over rooftops to fighting dudes with swords, and speaking 
 of fighting, I could not believe how a game that is based mostly on stealth could have such a solid 
 fighting system; you can draw your sword and believe me you won't be disappointed, Altair has great 
 moves, killer hits and a counter attack system that never gets old. you have a handful of weapons 
 that you can choose from and my god !! each weapon has a sweet touch to it that makes the gameplay 
 one hell of a ride. speaking of riding, Altair also has the ability to ride horses to travel from 
 a city to another, yes you can travel and holly sh** the world is so immense and so huge to cover 
 it just on foot.
  the animations of Altair are just about perfect, no mover or jump or climb he does seems awkward 
 at all, I was kept amazed all the way through with how he could climb and jump and interact with 
 the world in a so realistic and fluid way. I mean .. there's a lot to do in this game, you can 
 sneak up on guards and throw them off edges or battle your way through with such a wonderful fighting 
 system or you can go hang around and explore the city and to remind you, the cities are all wonderfully 
 designed that you'll find yourself taking great pleasure in exploring them both on ground and over 
 rooftops. what can I say .. I know i can't describe how great the gameplay can get in this game 
 .. again , just ... WAW!!
  
  The story is very accurate historically and to tell the truth, although i'm not a fan of story 
 boards, I must say that I was attracted by the story of AC and I even went to do research about 
 the crusades in order to understand the game better and live the experience to the bottom. The 
 voice acting is good too and the music is very atmospheric and reminded me a lot of Prince of Persia 
 and it sounded very familiar to me, I just love the music in this game, and the sounds are very 
 sharp from the galloping of the horse to the clicks of Altair's weapons when he walks. it's simply 
 another WAW !!
  
  on the down side, the game may get a bit repetitive for some players, although it never did for 
 me and I enjoyed doing most of the tasks multiple times without getting bored. also, there are 
 a few glitches that are not frequent, though but given the number of entities displayed on the 
 screen and huge amount of details anf characters an all, it's impossible not to have a few glitches, 
 so I don't see this as a flaw anyway. I think that the game has no clear down sides for me because 
 it plays well, it looks great and it sounds perfect, so without further ado, this game is just 
 PERFECT !! 
  
  in case you haven't figured it out, let me tell you one thing: Buy this game, it is a must have 
 in all aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraigless
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun for the first couple hours I played it. but after awhile not only does it get 
 boring but so repetitive I don't even know what the story is about!
  
  This game has the same game play over and over and over and over again with translates to no depth 
 at all. Its sudden character changes and minor plot changes drive me crazy cause you begin to think 
 "hey didn't I just do this"
  
  ANNOYING: The flags, who wants to run around a city catching hundreds of hidden flags, it becomes 
 to tedious and takes the fun out of the game.
  
  -Also when guards are after you, you aren't allowed the same style of game play with running around 
 as if you were undetected. 
  
  Its worth renting, or maybe borrowing from a friend, but I wouldn't recommend it this holiday season. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alextomaz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun all around. The concept for this game is a really good one and you can tell that 
 Ubisoft did everything they could do for this game. The game is really pretty all around and the 
 controls are really easy to get used to; it took me like 10 min. The only thing that let me down 
 was that you did the same missions over and over for each part of the city. Save the citizen, Reach 
 the view point, Eavesdrop, Pick Pocket, and help someone capture flags or assassinate a random 
 guy. Oh and by the way, Jade Raymond is REALLY hot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasticlink
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I waited for Assassin's Creed for a very long time. Since I'm a huge Prince of Persia Fan, I expected 
 this to be the greatest game of this year. Oh God was I wrong.
  
  Setting: I was hoping for a Historic game like the POP series but what we got instead was a dude 
 that uses this machine to go back in time and the story developes from there (he dosn't really 
 go back in time, he more likes plays over the events that his ancestor did) . A lot of people will 
 find that ok but for me I was totally disappointed the moment I played the game. To hell with the 
 futuristic BS. What I wanted was a complete historic game with an engaging story just like POP.
 
  
  Graphics: I can't really complain there. Graphics are awesome.
  
  Gameplay: This is were we start getting into the shittyness of this game. For almost the whole 
 game, the missions just keep repeating. You either have to pick pocket, beat up a guy for info, 
 or eavesdrop on a conversation. Then once your done, you kill your main target at the end. My point 
 is that it is soooo boring. I don't even want to finish the game because I'm bored out of my mind. 
 The only cool thing about this game is that it is so realistic. Anything you do will affect the 
 people around you. Everything that looks climbable is climbable. Something that I always found 
 weird about the game is that when you are running away from a guard and you break the line of site, 
 all you have to do for them not to recognize you is sit on a bench and wait. How stupid can the 
 guards be. They can't recognize an assassin that wears pure white clothes when he sits on a bench. 
 Lets just say that to make the game easier, the guards are a bit stupid. But thats ok because not 
 to much people like frustrating games.
  
  Overall: This game is cool when it comes to realism, but this is all your gonna get from this disappointing 
 game. You might not even want to finish it because its so boring. What I suggest is that you rent 
 it and see if you like it or not. Everyone has different opinions. All I'm doing is stating the 
 facts. This might as well be my number one disappointing game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadicta
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed you play an assassin (who woulda guessed) Who has been sent out to kill 9 templars 
 that wish to control the Middle East for themselves, and that's all that i'll say about the amazing 
 story. The graphics in this game will blow you away. They are the best scene on a consol yet. The 
 charecter modles look real and vibrant, and the cities are so well defined and apsolutely gorgeous. 
 The voice acting in this game is great. The actors, from the Templars all the way down to the street 
 merchants, do an amazing job of sucking you into the world. The controls of the game are filled 
 to the brim. Every movement that Altair makes when climbing a building, or jumping from place to 
 place is quick and fluid. The combat system of the game is the best system i have ever used for 
 sword fighting. Every attack has a counter, and you'll need to become familiar with them to be 
 able to take out the 20 plus guards that you'll be killing in a single fight. The crowd is probably 
 the most next gen thing about the game. They react to everything you do. People will form crownds 
 around you, and run for guards when you kill someboady, and will become the ultimate barrier and 
 booster when trying to escape the guards after a successful assassination. There are a few very 
 minor problems with the game, though. The first one is that Altier can't swim. It's not a big problem, 
 and there arne't many places at all where this will be shown, but it's still weird that you're 
 playing such a next gen game, and your main charecter can't swim. The other problem is that the 
 information missions can get repetitive. I never personally heard this, but i know some people 
 that have encountered the problem, and i could see how it could be one, but non of these insignificant 
 problems should stop you from buying what is, as of now the greatest next gen expeirience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  SO let me just say i reviewd Assassins creed 3 times now and this is how i feel after playing the 
 game alot.
  
  So when I was at the store To take the orange box back because it didn't work they didn't have 
 any so they said just pick out another game and I saw assassins creed and i was like hell ya and 
 the clerk said its amazing and i poped it in and my hardrive was screwed up so i sat there with 
 out saving for about 7 hours and was on the 6th mission. so i finialy got something to save the 
 game one and i quit frankly couldn't stand another play thorough.
  
  So the story of assassins creed has you play as to people Altier and his descendant and the descendant 
 story has you being tested in a lab kinda like a rat and you are linked back in time through some 
 table to your ancester who is a selfih assassins who ends up screwing up a mission and is de rainked 
 and has to earn his rank back by assassinating these people. the people you assassinate in assassins 
 creed were real but had dissapered the story is ok in assassins creed but the second story as the 
 descendant is just plane stupid and just ruiens the whole experince for you.
  
  THe sound is assassins creed is realy good the voice acting is agood and has its moments but there 
 is one thing wrong all the gard people and civilians have the same voice and when your doing something 
 tell you to stop acting like a kid wich is kinda anyoing and often results in me stabing them
 
  
  the grpachis in assassins creed is prety amazing its so beautiful the characters look amazing the 
 city is stellar and everything around you is quite beautiful. there is some minior things there 
 is some glitches in the game like walking of the edge and there is about 4 more feet of invisible 
 platform wich is kinda dissapointing.
  
  the game play is what sucks the side story has you literly talking to some people and laying down 
 on some table. NOw as the assassin altier you go on these missions and pick pocket ease drop and 
 visit your local assassins bural to get info then you get to climb high points to lean the area 
 alot better then you go and watch your target do something stupid and sneak around him and kill 
 him and escape from the city on hore back. thats bassicly all mission in the game and it gets realy 
 boring you can go horse back but its boring you can walk around killing gards and do prety cool 
 looking combat moves in the game you can alos climb buldings and leap of them to others and hide 
 in some hay and blend with some monks t oalert the gards away and its so repditvie it just takes 
 away the whole expreince and its rather lame..
  
  
  so overall the value is terrible the gameplay is absolutly terrible and boring and ign called this 
 game one of the top 5 dissapointments and i couldn't agree less its absolutly broking 
  
  the sound 9
  the graphics 9
  the gameplay 3
  the value 1
  the story 5
  overall 4.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Law
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a rather odd game, in that the things it does well - it does incredibly well; 
 but where it fails - it's really quite shamful.
  
  On the up side of things it has spectacular visuals &amp; sound with wonderfully detailed environments 
 and great animation, which you've probably seen for yourself in various videos. You'll be pleased 
 to know the main character controls brilliantly. Climbing &amp; free running is fun whilst the 
 combat is very satisfying. The games story is also very good with interactive cut-scenes that have 
 good dialogue and voice acting.
  
  Then there's the down side.
  
  Although a living breathing world full of realistic places and people has been created, the time 
 of day NEVER changes. Shadows are always in the same place, and it really destroys the realism 
 (especially when before each assasination your character is told to rest for a while, but when 
 you begin again time doesn't feel like it's moved on at all) . Then theres the Save Citizen mechanic. 
 If you save people being hurt by nasty soldiers you get their help in return. Great idea. Except 
 the scenarios are always the same, and you never feel as if you've saved them because you can never 
 be too late to rescue them (if you stand and watch for a while, the citizen is pushed about indefinitly, 
 nothing seems to happen beyond that) so there's never a sense of urgency. Also your hide spots 
 when being chased are limited to specific spots rather than how you might hide in say Metal Gear 
 Solid or Splinter Cell (a dark alley isn't good enough apparently, but a pile of hay is) . There's 
 other things I could mention, suffice to say theres alot that feels very contrived, and some appawling 
 AI in places. Even though you're given a large world to freely explore, you're not given freedom 
 in any other way (your investigations, good deads, hide spots and assasinations are all set out 
 for you) . So the game kind of takes away from itself what makes it so appealing, making it far 
 more linear than you may expect.
  
  The game is enjoyable though and the things it does well make up for the bad aspects for the most 
 part; but you will find yourself feeling like you wish you had more freedom with what you can DO, 
 as well as where you can go!! If you decide you can overlook the flaws the game is worth getting 
 for the great combat and controls (and the game has good length on it) , just don't expect anything 
 like Oblivion, if you like that. Oh, and I recommend turning off the health bar/ warning indicator 
 (top left of screen) as it is so much better without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze_pigmy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  The first few hours of Assassins Creed quite simply blew me away. There's a sort of free roam style 
 to the game, but there is inaccessibility due to the genetic memories of Desmond. I thought it 
 was a really clever idea of saying "You can't go there yet", and it just seems to fit nicely with 
 the story, and still doesn't limit you too much.
  
  -- The Visuals --
  
  Ubisoft have really gone to town with Assassins Creed's graphically. There's not a poorly textured 
 piece of scenery in sight, throughout the whole living, breathing city. Of course, it's not perfect, 
 but there are hundreds of realistic looking people, buildings, soldiers and objects that just sums 
 up the effort that must have gone into making it.
  
  --The Sound --
  
  The sounds, from people to combat, are also really realistic and most of the the sounds in Assassins 
 Creed are really engaging. It makes you feel part of the experience that you are playing out. However, 
 a lot of the dialogue is the same, for example the "Save The Citizen" missions always end in seemingly 
 one of three lines of dialogue, which sort of take's any pleasure away, when your stuck listening 
 to the same line, read in the same voice, five times in one city.
  
  --The Gameplay --
  
  Assassins Creed is also a really fun game to play through, but a the "investigation" part of 
 the assassination is often tedious and repetitive, whereas the actual assassinations are more varied. 
 This is due to the varied arsenal of Altair and several ways of entering, exiting and escaping 
 the areas. 
  
  --The Story --
  
  Assassins Creed takes place in the present day, you play as Desmond Miers, an assassin, who's ancestor, 
 Altar, was also an assassin. You are being held under the control of Abstergo (meaning cleanse) 
 Industries, modern day templars, and are being forced to use "The Animus" (a genetic memory reading 
 device) to remember what Altar did with "The Piece of Eden". 
  
  The whole story would probably seem confusing for someone who had not finished the game, but it 
 slowly unravels throughout the game, leaving you with a decent understanding of the story, but 
 as Assassins Creed is part of a trilogy, it leaves you with a lot of questions left unanswered, 
 too.
  
  --Overall --
  
  Overall, Assassins Creed is a really good game with a lot of good things going for it, but it could 
 have been so much better with a less repetitive investigation stage, which only seems to be bulking 
 out the game. Also, the fact that it was designed to be a PS3 Exclusive, means there is likely 
 to be no downloadable content or patches anytime soon. I would reccommend it strongly as a rental, 
 but the lack of replay value does not warrant a purchase in the eyes of many. 
  
  If you enjoy the idea of the actual assassinations more, I would advise you to go for a game in 
 the Hitman series. The missions in Hitman games are really well developed and give you much more 
 bang for your buck than assassins creed can. However, if your a fan of a flawless story and experience, 
 go for Assassins Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  I was sceptical about Assassin's Creed, not because of anything to do with the game itself really, 
 but after being let down by the last few Ubisoft games I played, I didn't think they could make 
 a game that would live up to the hype its created. And I was right, Assassin's Creed is by no means 
 a revolutionary game, a killer app. or even a game that should be considered 'Game of the Year' 
 material. With that said though, the game has revived some of my faith in Ubisoft, and although 
 as I said its not all it was hyped to be, its still a game that's worth playing.
  
  You play as Altair, an assassin who lived during the 3rd Crusade. The very beginning of the game 
 sees Altair and two associates trying to retrieve some treasure of some Templars for their master 
 (their master being the leader of the assassins) . During this mission, Altair breaks some very 
 significant rules the assassins go by and is also defeated by the Grand Master of the Templars, 
 Robert de Sable. Altair returns to his master, who is obviously disappointed in Altair, his most 
 skilled protg. Instead of taking Altair's life, Al Mualim (leader of the assassins) decides to 
 strip Altair of his weapons, abilities and rank, so he can regain them as well as his honour and 
 respect by assassinating nine of Al Mualim's targets. Throughout the story, you'll find out how 
 these targets are connected to each other, why Al Mualim wants them dead with a few twists and 
 turns along the way.
  
  The story also follows Desmond Miles, a bartender living in 2012. Altair is Desmond's ancestor, 
 and a company named "Abstergo Industries" has created a machine where, upon capturing Desmond, 
 they can use it to see the previously mentioned story of Altair unfold. This story doesn't really 
 serve any significant purpose or doesn't even hold any significance to Altair's (besides the fact 
 that Altair and Desmond are related) , but it is a somewhat interesting side story.
  
  Although the story is by no means bad, the real highlight of the game are the three cities you'll 
 be exploring through (while completing investigations and assassinating Al Mualim's targets of 
 coarse) . The three cities you'll be playing in are Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem, each populated 
 with thousands of people and interactive environments (interactive in the sense that you can climb 
 them) . 
  
  While you play as Altair, most of the time you'll be finding view points, which are points that 
 you use to update your map so that you can locate where you need to do certain objectives. These 
 objectives include helping out fellow assassin's do their missions in exchange for some information 
 about your assassination target, pick pocketing someone who has a document containing some form 
 of information about your assassination target, eavesdropping on two people's conversation and 
 interrogating someone who presumably knows something about your target. After you complete two 
 or three of these objectives you can then begin the assassination of your target.
  
  
  While this is the main way to progress through the game, you'll also spend a lot of time helping 
 citizens who are being harassed by guards and finding view points. As a matter of fact, because 
 I wanted the achievement points, before each assassination I found all view points, completed all 
 investigations and saved every citizen and it took me about sixteen hours to finish the game, but 
 if I just wanted to plough through the game, it could probably be done in eight to ten hours. I'd 
 also like to note that the game has a reasonable list of achievement points, in the sense that 
 most of them require just the right amount of effort to acquire (you won't have to invest hours 
 replaying the game or anything outrageous like that, but some of them aren't so easy to get either) , 
 so if you like your achievements, Assassin's Creed will keep you busy for a good while.
  
  Assassin's Creed was in development for quite some time and it definitely shows in the architectural 
 structure of the cities. Everything is just so well placed; you could jump and soar from one side 
 of town to the other for quite some time before it gets old. And of coarse it doesn't help that 
 the game looks absolutely beautiful.
  
  So the game is amazing is scope and just flat out looks excellent in every aspect. Its the gameplay 
 that brings the game down a lot. For the first two thirds of the game, everything is fine and dandy, 
 but once you get past the sixth or seventh assassination target or so, things start to fall apart. 
 
  
  Without a doubt, the main problem is the combat. After your about two thirds through the game, 
 the guards will often start fighting you for very small reasons, or at some points, no reason at 
 all. There were a lot of occasions where I've just been strolling along, and then I hear a guard 
 yell at the top of his lungs "ASSASSIN!" and then there are a bunch of guards swarming around me. 
 At this point the guards also take longer to kill, so basically combat occurs more often, takes 
 longer, and is way more tedious than it should be.
  
  Another nuance comes from the citizens that populate the town. As I mentioned before, the poorer 
 citizens will be asking for money. This is at first a bit of a novelty which helps make the city 
 a bit more realistic, but after a while it becomes extremely annoying, especially since these people 
 will come up to you at the worst possible time, like when your trying to pick pocket someone or 
 when your trying to stealth assassinate a guard. Additionally, there are these crazy people that 
 will walk up to you and push you for no reason. At first I was kind of annoyed, but these people 
 seemed to only appear very rarely. Again, after about two thirds into the game they seemed to appear 
 much, much more often. The problem with these people again, is that they appear at the wrong time, 
 like when your trying to be low profile, then they walk up to you and push you and then the guards 
 attack you, for no apparent reason. These may not seem like big problems, but considering how often 
 they occur, it becomes rather frustrating.
  
  Without a doubt, the best times you'll have with Assassin's Creed is when your platforming through 
 the city, jumping around rooftops and the like (and this is coming from someone who generally hates 
 platforming) , but there are times where the controlling is a bit off (like you'll try and make 
 Altair jump forward but he'll jump diagonally) . This is fine though in the city, because chances 
 are, whichever way you jump you'll land on something, or if you land on the ground, you can just 
 climb back up with little effort. But towards the end of the game, there is a part where your forced 
 platform through a dock area and a died here at least a dozen times, because Altair would jump 
 diagonally instead of straight. This isn't a big deal, besides for that once part in the dock area, 
 but its still something that you shouldn't have to deal with.
  
  As previously detailed, Assassin's Creed is an outstanding looking game. The cities in the game 
 are arguably the closest thing the a living breathing city that you can find in any game, ever, 
 thanks in part to the excellent visuals. The character models are also excellent, although citizens 
 are a bit blurry, that's easily forgivable. Altair looks great, and looks like a real badass while 
 he's prowling the rooftops of cities and the like and as I said before, the city itself is excellent 
 in an architectural sense.
  
  The audio in the game is also excellent. The little music found in the game is done well, sound 
 effects help add the atmosphere and the sounds of combat are also realistic but without a doubt, 
 the highlight of the audio is the voice acting. At first I thought Altair's voice didn't quite 
 match his appearance, but once I got used to it I personally though Altair's voice actor was the 
 highlight of the voice acting, but every part of it is done very well to say the least.
  
  So with one of the best audiovisual presentations of any game, ever, its a real bummer that things 
 start to fall apart in the gameplay side of things towards the end of the game. Still, the game 
 is worth playing, if not for the first two thirds of the game, even if the last third of it ends 
 up being very frustrating and repetitive at times. Assassin's Creed is definitely something special, 
 but with some changes and a few more months in development, it could have been something revolutionary. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed offers a unique blend of stunning graphic design, excellent voice acting and a 
 very different, but complex storyline. There is an endless amount to do in the game that will leave 
 you satisfied and hungry for more. 
  
  Assassin's Creed follows the tale of Altair, a highly skilled 12th Century assassin and his journey 
 through the Holy Land, during the Crusades. You will encounter different environments in the cities 
 you will visit: Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem. Each city is beautifully designed and rendered which 
 will leave you speechless at how life like the cities are.
  
  Each city is alive with a thriving populace and busy streets. In the cities you will encounter 
 beggars, drunks, town guards and hardy Templar Knights; and of course the people going about their 
 normal business. You must take into account the population when making your move on your target 
 as the population can be your best friend or worst nightmare.
  
  The visual quality of Assassin's Creed is one of its many strengths. Each city is enormous and 
 is your's to explore -- though most of the cities are cut down to districts which are unlocked as 
 you progress through the story. Everything is beautifully textured from the ancient pottery to 
 the exquisite rugs and detailed clothing on the citizens. Most walls can be scaled one way or another 
 by Altair and you can jump gracefully from one building to another, and you can leap from high 
 towers into bails of hay when the opportunity arises. This makes gives you an extremely fun alternative 
 to running from the guards in the busy streets -- why not take them to the roofs?
  
  Moving around the roofs and in combat is easily mastered by the sleek controls also make the game 
 very fun to play. It seems effortless to cut down guards and just running and climbing is extremely 
 easy to master. Fighting the guards in close combat can be a tempting challenge but it becomes 
 more difficult when you are being pursued by 10 or 15 guards who will encircle you and attack; 
 fleeing from them and using your profound agility can help you fend off the guards, allowing you 
 time to escape to the roofs where they will be no match for your speed.
  
  Assassin's Creed's sound quality is one of the best to date for a game. Everything you will hear 
 adds to the experience of being in a busy city. As you walk the streets, you will hear the cries 
 of endangered citizens, their views on religion and politics, the pleas from desperate beggars 
 and the ramblings of drunks all makes the citizens all the more interesting to interact with. The 
 voice acting is also magnificent, each character is made their own thanks to the fantastic voice 
 actors. Combined with this is a beautiful musical score. The subtle sounds of Middle-Eastern tones 
 and harmonies brings the game to life and provides a unique blend of scores for the different situations 
 that will arise.
  
  The story is what binds the whole game together and makes it unique. The story is in two parts. 
 One is centred around Desmond, descendant of Altair, who has been forcibly kidnapped by a researcher 
 and is placed in a machine called and Animus, which withdraws Altair's memories from Desmond's 
 mind. This is when you will begin to play as Altair, eliminating assassination targets sought by 
 your Creed master. The story can be rather confusing at times and switching back to Desmond can 
 some-what slow the pace of the game. The ending especially leaves you on a cliff hanger which opens 
 doors for a possible sequel that will surely be on the table.
  
  There are an endless amount of tasks to do in the game that will take you away from the main story 
 for a short time. You have the opportunity to rescue citizens being bullied by the guards; you 
 can climb tall towers to get a synchronized view of the cityscape and you can collect various flags 
 which will eventually unlock some achievements. Each will grant you elusive benefits like vigilantes 
 that will grab your pursuing enemies allowing you time to escape. Climbing "View Points" will also 
 allow you a bird's eye view of the city and will reveal missions you must do to discover the location 
 of your targets. These varied missions come in the form of eavesdropping on people's conversations, 
 beating information out people and pick pocketing victims for more information on things like your 
 target's position. All of this grants you opportunities to flex you stealth talents by creeping 
 around gathering information on your prey and preparing your strike.
  
  The game also gives you important choices to make: should you go in all knives blazing, or sneak 
 in through the crowds of people and cunningly killing your foe with your hidden blade. You can 
 use your throwing daggers to kill enemies from a distance or use your sword or short sword to kill 
 them in close quarters. Each way has their own satisfying rewards, be it smooth gruesome combo 
 kills or a sneaky knife in the back. Close combat can be risky business as killing innocent citizens 
 will give you a severe loss of health which will hinder your confidence in a large fight.
  
  Needless to say, stealth is your best option. You have the ability to sneak past guards by 
 hiding among white-robed scholars or by blending into the crowd. However, knocking over crate and 
 pot carriers will draw the guard's attention to you and or even drawing your weapon in public will 
 make the guards draw their's in retaliation. This can lead to all sorts of problems whither it 
 be trying to complete a mission or just getting from A to B. You may choose to stay and fight the 
 guards off, but running to the roofs is a far more enjoyable experience as you can throw guards 
 to their deaths from the rooftops or hide in the hay stacks or small gardens located there until 
 the guards regroup and go back to their posts. It all adds to the game's immersive quality.
  
  Assassin's Creed is one of those rare games that portrays how hard Montreal Studios has worked 
 on this game. The graphics, especially in High-Definition are stunning and is the sound quality 
 of the game. From the living and breathing cities, to the slick combat and free running qualities 
 of the game, it provides a deeply satisfying experience that you will soon not forget.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  I heard a few lame reviews for Assassin's Creed, and I was kinda dissapointed after all the hype 
 it got. But I saw it at Walmart, and was drawn to it. And boy am I glad I got it. From the excellent 
 story, to eh excellent combat, to the great graphics, Assassin's Creed is the total package.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are exceptional. The lighting is good, the textures are great, and all 
 the character models look good.
  
  Sound- The sound is good. The main character's voice over wasnt as bad as most people said. To 
 me, he just sounded like a cerebral, calculated killer, like he is int he game. All the other voice 
 overs are superb, and the score is excellent too. 
  
  Fun/Value- This game is very fun. The acrobatic rooftop jumping, and the very violent battles are 
 great. Soem sidequests can get a little repetitive, but thats just a minor snag. Ive beatne the 
 game twice, and it has some good value. There are a lot of things to do. 
  
  If I were you, and you were ont he fence like I was, take the plunge and get one of the best action 
 adventure games of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonermonkey666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is steeped in historical tidbits, and although everything isn't immediately given away 
 (i. e. Halo 2 ending much?) there is a strong base for a great series. I know not everybody likes 
 to see a game take more than one installment to play out, however this may have started a heavy 
 hitting lineage. Worth playing for the gameplay mechanics, fighting is solid (though depending 
 on how you handle it, it can be repetitive) the ability to grab and climb nearly everything is 
 deliciously addicting. I would have liked nothing more than to have a night-mission or two, for 
 hardcore ye-old splinter-cell kind of a feel... but oh well. Searching for templars or flags will 
 keep the controller in your hands a bit longer, but the real staying power lies in the story line.
 
  
  Its a damn fine game, rent or buy you should give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Truly it's hyped up quite a bit, but in the end it comes out to be a very well made game with an 
 intriguing storyline and an engaging world. A perfect game? No, there could be improvements, but 
 otherwise the game is the next best thing you can get to perfect. Not exactly a 10/10, but definitely 
 above a 9.
  
  The storyline takes place during the third crusade. You are Altair, a master assassin and a rogue 
 and enemy of both the Saracens and the Crusaders. Armed with powerful weapons and skills, you traverse 
 a land that is enormous and incredibly realistic. It seems as if every tiny village has a purpose, 
 that every bush and tree were not laid out randomly, but rather set at precisely the right angle 
 and set to cast precisely the right shadow. The world, itself, is amazing. It offers a nearly endless 
 supply of exploration. I was shocked by the sheer size of it all, even after games like Oblivion.
 
  
  The lack of any sort of multi-player or co-op is a huge disadvantage though. Modern games are set 
 to have very strong online capabilities, so that it adds a social aspect to the game. But sitting 
 at home and just playing the storyline alone? That's a huge fault in my mind, though it's not exactly 
 a flaw. The campaign itself makes up for this lacking, due to its immersing and intriguing plot. 
 You'll find yourself looking back on the story afterwards... and saying to yourself : "Wow, now 
 that was one hell of a game." If game even be the word you use. "Epic..." might be the only word 
 to describe it.
  
  Another huge bonus for the game is its combat system. The in-depth attacks/maneuvers that you can 
 pull when you're surrounded by Templar Knights of Saracen Cavaliers is astounding. These moves 
 aren't only impressive... they're REALISTIC. These would be actions that a true assassin might perform 
 during the heat of combat. Plus, your very low health makes you vulnerable. A hit to the head with 
 a sword will take you down... but with a sword in your hand, your skills go unmatched. What's more, 
 your enemies seem smart in combat. They move and dodged, as well as strike out at you and parry 
 your attacks. They're less skilled, sure, but they're still powerful adversaries that know how 
 to wield a weapon. It kind of brings you back to reality: "These are the finest swordsmen in all 
 of Europe, and they're actually matching my combat moves!" Of course, as Altair, you're pretty 
 much unmatched by anyone... but the realism of it all is impressive.
  
  And that's what made me give it a score of 9.5. This is history you are in, not some futuristic 
 FPS. You don't have shields, grenades, thick armor, or an enormous stash of health... you're just 
 a man. You're a man with ambition and a man with skill. It is your skill that will overcome your 
 enemies, not your firepower or armor level. This doesn't really seem like a game about the crusades, 
 this seems like the CRUSADES are about the GAME. You feel as if you're living history, not as if 
 you're sitting on the couch moving an analog stick around to move your character.
  
  Truly amazing, Ubisoft. I look forward to any future titles that you might have for the Assassin's 
 Creed series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynedyer
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The game looks good, but its WAY too repetitive. there are no skill ups, there are no new weapon 
 attacks... the plot is kinda cliche, but its ok. I'm really disappointed with all next gen systems 
 right now. there hasn't been one game that has had much to offer in terms of solid game play. they 
 have all been good to look at, but if you blink... its over! Can the people who developed the SNES, 
 and PS1 games please come back.... i give assassin's creed a solid 7. 
  
  my games of reference/comparision for this are:
  metal gear solid (psx)
  vagrant stor (psx)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandma1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  When you start Assassin's Creed your expectations completely take over. This game has been in production 
 for awhile, and was originally expected to come out in 2006, but now its here and has plenty of 
 good and bad points. Its hard to ignore the graphics right off the bat. Its so finely detailed 
 and good looking on any TV. This shows that 360 graphics have seriously came so far since 2005. 
 Right away the story will throw you for twists, but I wont spoil any of it for you. Basically you 
 start as the Character Desmond Miles who has been captured by scientists and forced into a machine 
 called the animus. This is how the tutorial begins, and your journey through the 3rd crusade begins.
 
  
  Once you finally meet with your assassin brethren you betray one of the members, resulting in your 
 own death....... Game Over? No actually Al Mualim, the leader of the Creed, used this as a lesson 
 for your character, Altair, to quit your ignorance. You are automatically demoted to the lowest 
 rank, and lose most of your equipment. For your redemption Al Mualim sends you to 3 different cities 
 to kill 9 different targets. So the story begins interesting, but very complicated at first.
  
  Being introduced to the controls wasn't too hard for me, and its fun once you learn to jump 
 between, climb up buildings, and use stealth to assassinate guards. Basically each button is configured 
 to a body part, and depending on what weapon you have out, you can throw knives, assassinate, and 
 slash. The A button is very interesting, because it acts as your legs and changes the way you walk 
 to blend into the crowd or sprint. The B button gently moves you through a crowd or grabs citizen. 
 And X is your attack button. When holding on the right trigger while pressing a button it changes 
 it into a high profile action, which is good for fighting, but gives up your position. Its a fun 
 system that works and will have you flying around the cities in no time.
  
  Combat works very similarly, and is pretty fun to use. Most of the time you will use your sword, 
 but you also have a short sword that you can use in addition to throwing knives. The 1st weapon 
 you get is used to simply hack n slash, but then you get a counter attack, and other combo attacks. 
 You have to use these new skills to kill your enemies, because they get harder farther in the game. 
 Sometimes the kill animations get repetitive, but you have to use the counters to fight successfully. 
 Thats really the only weak part of Assassin's Creed, is how repetitive it can get.
  
  The platforming in the game is almost hidden and well mixed into the game. Your constantly climbing 
 walls and jumping on boats and platforms, but the world doesn't change. If you want to climb a 
 building, Altair will actually put his hands and feet on jutted bricks, windows, and planks to 
 scale walls. This definitely looks amazing and points out the good parts of the games graphics 
 and textures. And then when you get to the top of a tower you can eagle dive to the streets into 
 a bail of hay. Nothing like the feeling of flying!
  
  You use a horse to get around the kingdom, but once you get to a city the whole gameplay changes. 
 Cities look absolutely beautiful! Everyone is moving around, talking, listening to merchants, beggars 
 walk in front of you. Its just perfect and hard to ignore how much time it took to get all the 
 figures to move so well. When you kill a guard it attracts attention and the towns people speak 
 of the assassin. Its very interesting and fun. There are plenty of activities to interact in also. 
 You can climb towers to fill your synchronization and reveal the town and you can save citizens 
 to get vigilantes on your side. And Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus each have their own characteristics 
 and religions. For the first couple hours playing the game you will be amazed, and entertained 
 on each city and how different each one looks.
  
  The missions actually start when you go to the bureau. They will give you objectives and you have 
 to go interrogate, pickpocket, and eavesdrop your way to the target. Once you have enough information 
 you are allowed to go on a mission to kill your target. Each man you kill has a special story and 
 dictates the people of the city in some horrible way. This part is very fun and interesting, but 
 the conversations can get a bit long and drawn out. After you find a way to assassinate the target 
 the whole town is alerted and you have to make your way back to the bureau and ultimately escape. 
 Its a very hectic and exciting time running through the streets dodging peasants and guards. Overall 
 the game functions like this the whole time, but gets repetitive after about 9 or 10 hours.
  
  The main problem with Assassin's Creed is that you can't stretch a 10 hour game into a 20 hour 
 game by just making you do the same tasks. Its easy to notice that they could've added more missions 
 or objectives to complete before the assassination of the target, but it just does the same thing. 
 This might really annoy people, but if you work your way through this and concentrate on the story, 
 Assassin's Creed still proves to be fun.
  
  This is definitely one of the big games of 2007 and I can't complain with my purchase. I thoroughly 
 played the game and want to go back and do some more missions, but maybe not replay it. The game 
 is sort of weak for re playability, especially if you don't want to repeat all the same tasks in 
 the game. Anyone who looked forward to this game should be slightly impressed, but there is also 
 a lot of disappointment for those people with the high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heinz57AC
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed wasn't a bad game it looked great and had some cool fighting. In the first hour 
 of play that is. The game got way to repetitive. CLimb buildings, save citizens which tell you 
 the same thing all the time, and easily assassinate target after eavesdropping. That's all there 
 is  fun fun. Sure you can go collect flags yippy and 
 kill templars which guard boxes u can't even open. But well it gets boring. I was having fun for 
 a little while when I'd take on 20 guards or so at the same time but it looses it fun quickly as 
 well. All u kept hearing about for this game was how realistic it feels and looks and how the people 
 act. Well there is some cool things like how they react to u killing guards but it's always the 
 same reaction, again repetitive. Once you've climbed 3 tall towers U've climbed them all. so there 
 ya go I think this game had good idea's that someone can take and make much better inwhich we all 
 expect from the next gen consoles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSsw009b7359
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I closely followed all of the E3 footage for this title, grabbed the Live interviews and vids etc 
 watched the stage demos and was blown away - thing is I could put the game on in the house and 
 play a few levels with friends watching and you would get exactly what you saw from that stage 
 demo, its all there. The graphics are next gen, its all very cinematic, looks great on the screen 
 etc but aside from what was in the stage demos theres not much else.
  
  Some people critised the combat, in regards to that issue, sure its no Ninja Gaiden the combat 
 has literally no subtleties at all. It is essentially a case of stabbing the attack key, time it 
 right and you counter and thats really it. I rarely used dodge and one of the achievements take 
 on 25 people in a row is made ludicrously easy by the fairly basic combat. Sure its a harsh criticism 
 but for such a high profile title this game shouldn't just be meeting its demands in regards the 
 combat system it should be smashing them, introducing revolutionary complex and enjoyable combat 
 - for the sake of being obvious (see my Avatar) Gaiden achieves this as do many others i. e God 
 of War, the combat within those games is a learning experience which evolves as the player does 
 with all buttons and moves needed to really get the better of the AI. At no point in Assassins 
 Creed did I feel in danger, thats a gameplay crime in this sort of game. How can you feel any sort 
 of immersiveness when your character is basically untouchable.
  
  Like wise the free running, I'll keep it short but as per previous comments just feels to simple. 
 Press up and you'll scale a wall. There should have been more challenge in that respect, sure it 
 works fine but see above for a high profile game fine doesn't cut it. Shadow of Colossus/Prince 
 of Persia arguably it where the game should have been at climbing/swinging/vaulting wise at the 
 very least some danger rather than being glued to a wall Spiderman style.
  
  One criticism lays in the sound effects and voice overs, theres a beautiful sparse/minimal score 
 which works well during the game, however, when your walking around the markets all you hear are 
 the same voiceovers again and again and again and again. How much more time and money would it 
 have cost to record some voiceovers so that gamers can't say they've heard the entire repertoire 
 5 minutes into the game. Likewise the ambience there should be the hussle and bussle of a market 
 but other than said irritating repeating voices its very very bland and just not convincing - even 
 throwing in some foreign voices would have worked great.
  
  Another gripe is the storytelling, why ruin a great story by revealing the sci-fi twist 1 minute 
 into the game? thats some of poorest storytelling and direction I've ever seen in both game or 
 movie.
  
  Then theres the repetitive nature of the missions which in all actuality just aren't that exciting. 
 example sit on a bench and listen to someone! the game mechanics just don't give these missions 
 any chance to be exciting all your doing is sitting on a bench and clicking a character likewise 
 stealing..... walk behind someone with the button held down - wheres the skill, the stealth, the 
 challenging gameplay. Splinter Cell Double Agent was far from perfect but this game couldn't hold 
 a candle to it in that respect.
  
  In the games defence other than the ruined sci-fi story twist the story is great, the graphics 
 as mentioned tick all the boxes and you will get some form of satisfaction from it plus the cities 
 although not maximised to their full potential are jaw dropping to look at when you first see them, 
 jump onto a high point and you will literally be amazed at first when you look down on the cities. 
 
  
  That said this game fails to meet the majority of expectations and what you feel your left with 
 is a solid working point for a sequel and if your the developers your certainly left with a lot 
 of user feedback and complaints which should have been spotted prior to this game ever hitting 
 streets were this to reach classic status or even be considered for GOTY nominations - despite 
 some great ideas it simply feels unfinished/rushed.
  
  Suckered by the hype - wish I hadn't bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Not long after the huge success Prince of Persia: Sand of Time reached the shelves, did Ubisoft 
 Montreal begin their work with Assassin's Creed.
  First announced as a game exclusively for the Playstation 3, it was confirmed later on, that it 
 would also be coming for the Xbox 360. Now, after many years in Development, Assassin's Creed is 
 finally here. Was it worth the long wait?
  
  Story:
  In the game of Assassin's Creed, you play, mainly, as the Master Assassin, Altair. You start out 
 the game, as you're send out on a quest by your master, to recover a hidden and very valuable treasure. 
 Altair, however, defies the Creed of the Assassin's multiple times on the way, although warned 
 greatly by his fellow men. 
  When Altair then returns with his tail between his legs to his master, without the item he was 
 seeking, nor with any of his comrades, it upsets his master. 
  
  Turns out that one of your comrades have survived the attack from the Templars, where Altair escaped 
 from, and he brings back the item. Now Altair stand accused for breaking the rules, and the Templars 
 are outside the walls of the stronghold, pushing to get in. Altair must hold them back. 
  
  Once he successfully finishes off the Templars with a quick trap, he returns to his master, only 
 to be punished for his wrongdoings, and stripped off his rank, and must then start out from the 
 very bottom. He is then given a list with nine names, of people he must slay, and so his quest 
 begins.
  
  Gameplay:
  Assassin's Creed is a free-roaming game set in the time during the third crusade, which took place 
 in the 12'th century. As a master assassin, you've got various 'Tools' to do the job right, such 
 as the Hidden Blade, which is a dagger strapped onto your arm. It's the most useful to take out 
 your enemies in a single hit, and without alarming other guards nearby. You also have a long sword 
 and a short sword. Both perform quite similar, although the long sword may prove to be better for 
 defensive manners, and the short one far quicker. With the short sword is also some throwing knifes, 
 that will be your only possible way of taking out a target from a distance. Depending on the situation 
 you're in, you'll want to choose the right weapon, or the one you're best at. 
  
  The combat is quite simple, once you get the hang of it. You'll start out with a minimum of abilities, 
 but will later gain such moves as 'Counter-attack', 'Dodge', 'Counter-Grab' and so on, which will 
 all help you greatly, against your enemies.
  Sometimes, however, you will need to make an escape. Luckily, you're also a skilled climber, and 
 you get past walls and onto rooftops easily. 
  
  The controls of Assassin's Creed are new to the genre of free-roaming games. The buttons on your 
 right; Y, X, B and A are assigned to the body-part on that side. For example, the A button controls 
 your legs, Y controls head, X main-hand and B, of course, controls the off-hand. 
  You also have two different states to be in: Low-profile, which is more socially acceptable, and 
 high-profile, which is less. Depending on the state you're in, which can easily be changed by holding 
 down the right-trigger, then you're given a different set of things to do, with the four buttons. 
 
  
  As I said before, there are both socially unacceptable and acceptable things to be done. This is 
 because the game is based on 'Social Stealth', which means you blend in with the crowd, act less 
 provoking towards guards, or that you won't throw or bash citizens around. The more unacceptable 
 things you do, the more the guards will keep an eye after you. Also, the more main targets from 
 the list that you kill, the more aware the guards become, and they will keep an eye out for someone 
 looking like you. This won't mean that the guards will instantly notice you, but they will react 
 far more often than before, and react to less unacceptable things than they do in the start. 
 
  
  Other than killing these nine assassination targets, there are a few side-quests to do as well. 
 Before you're able to find and kill your target, you will need to gather some information about 
 him, by either eavesdropping on two people having a conversation, pickpocket a guy with valuable 
 information, or beat some guy up in a secluded place to make him talk. Not only that, but you're 
 also able to climb tall towers to find 'viewpoints', which will reveal more of your map and side-quests 
 to do in that area. You can also choose to save citizens or not, but they will help you out in 
 some sort of way, if you choose to save them. If you like climbing around or running in the city, 
 or throughout the Kingdom, there are a lot of flags to collect. One hundred flags are located in 
 each of the three major cities, plus another hundred in the Kingdom, and twenty in Masayf, the 
 Assassin's City. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of Assassin's Creed is absolutely outstanding. It's definitely one of the better looking 
 games currently on any console, and it plays without any framerate issues whatsoever. You won't 
 see any ordinary cut-scenes in this game, but you will actually participate in them. There are 
 thousands of people located in each city, and you will often have 50-100 people walking around 
 on the screen at once, while you're trying to get past them, yet everything looks amazing, both 
 characters and the environment, and of course, it runs smoothly. 
  
  The animations of Altair are some of the best seen in any game so far. He climbs tall towers, buildings, 
 runs around, pushes through crowds and all sorts of things, and yet everything looks like it's totally 
 believable. Any piece that looks like you can climb on, you can, yet it simply looks like a part 
 of the building, instead of creating the things that you can climb onto very obvious, it simply 
 just seems like a part of the game and environment in Assassin's Creed. 
  The game does have some minor graphical glitches, such as guards acting very wierd, or your clothing 
 going through some of the things that you're sitting on. Somewhat major once that I encountered 
 though, is that I fell through the ground all of a sudden a few times, but that's about it.
  
  Sound:
  The voice acting in Assassin's Creed is where the sound factor of this game truly 
 shines through. Every NPC just sounds so realistic and believeable, that you'd almost think that 
 Ubisoft Montreal had taken a time machine back to the third crusade, and brought a few people back 
 with them. It's just that good!
  Sword slashing and finishing of your enemies with your sword through their belly, or the hidden 
 dagger in the face, is also quite pleasing, as well as jumping from rooftop to rooftop, you'll 
 almost hear the sand sliding beneath your boots, as you land on the opposite side. 
  
  Value:
  The game will easily take 12-15 hours to complete, and that's if you're going fast. Most 
 players will probably prefer to enjoy the free-roaming that the game offers, instead of simply 
 'Speeding' through the game in few hours. Once you're done with all of the nine assassinations 
 though, there will still be plenty of flags to collect, Templars to kill, guards to annoy and much 
 more. Sadly, there is no multiplayer in this game, but that hardly makes the game worse. A Co-op 
 would've been awesome, but no one knows if that'll come crawling in an update for the game. 
  
  The gameplay does get a bit repetitive after a while, but most games does that. However, if 
 you truly enjoy the game, then the slightly repetitive gameplay won't bother you, and even after 
 30 hours of gametime, you'll still love to run around and finding flags, not to mention bothering 
 the guards and trick them to follow you. If you please, then you will also be able to replay every 
 assassination in the game, if you feel that you missed something, or you want to try a different 
 approach.
  
  Summary:
  Assassin's Creed is a great game that everyone should give a try, if they free-roaming gameplay, 
 or awesome looking games with enough things to do, to keep you busy. 
  Depending on how much you'd want to play of the game, you can choose to rent the game, as it can 
 be completed in a few days, yet there's still plenty of flags to collect and such, so you'll probably 
 still have something to do after a week or two. 
  I can highly recommend this game to anyone slightly interested in it, the game is totally worth 
 the wait, and the huge amount of enjoyment you get from playing this game, is easily worth paying 
 $60 dollars for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  When we first saw Assassin's Creed at last year's E3, its presence was intimidating. The concept 
 of becoming a "hitman of sorts" in the twelfth century intrigued us all. The game has been through 
 a rough stretch, with all the talks of when the game actually takes place and all the secrets Ubisoft 
 failed to reveal. Assassin's Creed is like that secret Ubisoft has been hiding; everyone knew it 
 was coming but no one expected what it had to offer when it finally arrived. Thankfully Assassin's 
 Creed does more than live up to its secrecy and creates a remarkable gaming experience that all 
 gamers should not miss out on.
  
  Without dabbing too much with the intricacies of the story for fear of spoiling anything, note 
 that Assassin's Creed takes place during two time periods, the present and twelfth century Palestine. 
 The links between the two times become apparent within the first fifteen minutes of the game but 
 its much more rewarding to see it for yourself than having us describe it to you. Although the 
 two periods relate to each other continuously throughout the game, you will spend most of your 
 time traversing the Holy Land during the Third Crusade as Altair, a hired assassin devoted to his 
 teachings and lays down vengeance without mercy.
  
  Altair is the essence of the anti-hero. His personality is very dark, he sticks to the shadows, 
 and he kills without any sense of morality. Needless to say, you will become attached to him throughout 
 the game despite your best efforts to hate him. His story is astonishing, truly shining over even 
 the darkest events that Altair performs. As you advance through the game, you will learn of Altair's 
 ambitions and just what exactly he has to do with modern day science. His goals may be vengeful, 
 but you will soon enjoy his ruthlessness as time goes on.
  
  What makes the story so intriguing is the environment for which Assassin's Creed takes place. Altair's 
 world is set up into three lands; Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem. All have their own unique style 
 and vibe, complete with hundreds of interactive citizens that roam the streets. At first glance, 
 you might be blown away by the vastness each city has to offer, but there are plenty of secrets 
 to be found if you spend some time exploring. Spiritual temples grace the landscape, crowds gather 
 at the market in a seamless display of interaction, and monks recite passages from the Holy Bible 
 to willing listeners. The environment is extravagant beyond means, and there are plenty of secrets 
 for you to find that will surely peak your interest for a good time to come.
  
  With so much time spent in the three cities, it's useful to detect how lifelike each one feels. 
 Every citizen, merchant stand, animal, and building can be interacted with and most can be utilized 
 for your own specific goals, depending on the situation. More often than not you will find yourself 
 running from guards in an attempt to stay hidden. You can use these interactions to jump on top 
 of buildings, push helpless citizens in front of chasing guards, or even crush the legs of a fruit 
 stand to block their path. The choice is yours, and that's what makes Assassin's Creed so innovative 
 and exacting to play, there are just so many different options to choose from at any point in the 
 game.
  
  Of course, Assassin's Creed is more than just irritating the guards and running away. You are tasked 
 with assassinating nine Templars, protectors of the greatest treasure in the Holy Land. While you 
 might think eliminating the Templars is overly dramatic, Altair's ambitions become clear during 
 the different story-arches, and sooner or later you won't feel any sense of remorse in taking them 
 down one by one. Getting to the Templars is as easy as finding them on your map and going to their 
 location, but there are many factors you have to take into account, such as witnesses, guards, 
 and the possibility of being outnumbered. To help alleviate these problems, you can take alternate 
 side missions to learn of important information that will help in taking down each Templar. This 
 information can be anything from what time a Templar walks in front of a certain tower in the day 
 to who he socializes with. The possibilities for how you take down your target are endless, and 
 you can use almost anyone to help you in your progress.
  
  Learning this important detail makes up most of the basic gameplay for Assassin's Creed. You will 
 spend a good time hiding in the shadows or crowds trying to listen in on important conversations, 
 follow behind targets in a chance to pickpocket letters, or jump atop buildings to get a birds-eye 
 view of the surroundings. There are also optional missions that gain you respect with the citizens. 
 The more you help citizens, the easier it will become for you near the end to take out those high-ranking 
 Templar officials. Helping citizens can net you rewards such as bandits who help you escape after 
 an assassination, or even a group of monks who let you hide in their bundle while they walk to 
 the church. Naturally, not all encounters are going to be easily avoided and there will be many 
 times when you will have to take out your sword to engage in combat. Probably the most doubted 
 part of the game, the combat is unusual in retrospect, but it's really fun to use. Instead of going 
 into an offensive style of attack, Altair goes into a defensive stance a where you will have to 
 wait for your opponent to strike first. It sounds contrived and slow-paced, but it works really 
 well in the atmosphere of the game. You can also melee your sword for quick attacks, but keeping 
 your enemies off-guard becomes essential to survival. Once you master the art of counter-attacking, 
 you will never feel outnumbered despite the dozens of guards following in your wake. You can also 
 sling daggers from far away at enemies and if you so choose (we highly recommend this) , you can 
 go quietly at your enemies and lunge at them with your hidden knife for an instant kill. It's immensely 
 satisfying to perform this stealth kill considering how hard it is sometimes to remain hidden from 
 anyone. If anything, you can always scale to the top of buildings, wait for your enemies to follow 
 you to the top and throw them off.
  
  The controls may take some getting used to, but if you manage to perfect them you are rewarded 
 with one of the most brilliant and fluid control schemes in any game. The team at Ubisoft has mapped 
 Altair's movements to the controller based on his body, meaning A is associated with his feet, 
 X and B are his arms, and Y is his body and upper extremities (PS3 is mapped similar as well) . 
 This works well with any impending situation. For example, if you are running from guards hold 
 down the right triggers and press A to jump from platform to ultimately reach higher ground. As 
 mentioned before, X and B are used mainly for combat, but they can also be enhanced for exploration 
 purposes as well. It's a complex control scheme, and one that makes your experience in Assassin's 
 Creed that much more personal.
  
  Assassin's Creed is no slouch when it comes to presentation either. Everything in the game looks 
 spectacular, both living and non-living. Every citizen moves on their own free-will and no two 
 act similar to one another. Shadows set an ambience onto the cities with the sun rising and setting 
 often during your adventure. Birds fly away when you rush on top of high buildings, people cower 
 in fear if you bring out your sword, and grass sways in the breeze when venturing from city to 
 city. Even the buildings and locations are modeled almost 100% accurately to the actual Third Crusade 
 Era. There are some instances that irked us, such as citizens who go about their daily business 
 after an assassin runs downtown chased by guards, or some slight stutter stepping during combat, 
 but it's rarely an occurrence and most will never notice it at all. It's the subtle details that 
 make the overall package very much more rewarding, and gamers are definitely in for a magnificent 
 treat.
  
  The sound also blends together almost perfectly to make the Assassin's Creed experience that much 
 better. The most noticeable impression is that of the large crowds, who make a unique noise on 
 their own, but once frightened, scream into panic and change their perceptions completely. The 
 Templars have also been voiced rather well despite some minor inconsistencies with the location 
 and time, as they give off a slight British range, but what they say overrules their lacking docile 
 tones. The music also wonderfully sets the mood throughout, with striking Palestinian ensembles 
 while wandering through towns or the countryside, to soothing melodies while searching for clues 
 or exploring; the styles never let up.
  
  Assassin's Creed is remarkable in every aspect it performs. From the sprawling city life to the 
 dual-vision storyline, everything blends together to offer one of the most complete and satisfying 
 experiences so far this year. With so many great games arriving at the same time as Assassin's 
 Creed it might be hard to give this game a try, but you owe it to yourself to jump into the role 
 of Altair and start killing some Templars; the game is that rewarding and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generic_Dude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed you must employ stealth tactics to uncover the mystery surrounding a former 
 assassin's abduction, aided by the ability to scale buildings and perform various acrobatic maneuvers 
 to reach your targets. The game plays out much like a cross between Prince of Persia: Sands of 
 Time and Hitman: Blood Money, which sounds excellent on paper... regrettably, Assassin's Creed 
 falls far short of either game.
  
  Firstly, and most glaringly, the story is awful: You're a former assassin that's been kidnapped 
 by an evil corporation and placed into a machine that allows you to step into the sandals of your 
 ancestor as a Crusade-era assassin. Not wanting to give too much away, suffice it to say that the 
 story only gets more ridiculous from there.
  
  Assassinating your enemies is very satisfying, and if done with the hidden blade weapon, rarely 
 attracts suspicion, which is unusual because often when brushing against a guard or knocking a 
 pot off of a woman's head, you'll have a dozen irate guards swinging their blades at you. In the 
 event that you're able to get to a bench, the guards will walk right by you, not noticing you there, 
 sometimes even staring you in the face while commenting on your disappearance. This, along with 
 jumping off of huge towers into a bundle of hay unscathed, or your limber protagonist's inexplicable 
 inability to swim damages the suspension of disbelief quite a bit.
  
  The controls are clunky, for the most part. While it's satisfying to be able to climb nearly everything 
 in the game, you'll often find yourself running up walls and climbing on things you didn't plan 
 to while trying to evade a group of foes. While running through the crowded streets, you'll often 
 find yourself climbing up certain NPCs. The tackle function you learn later on works some of the 
 time, but not all of the time. The general combat mechanics prove extremely frustrating when faced 
 with numerous foes, when your lock-on target changes depending on the way the camera faces. Speaking 
 of the camera, it causes problems in nearly every battle, parking itself behind a palm tree or 
 a merchant stand. The camera is adjustable using the right analog stick, but reaching over to move 
 the analog stick likely means you're going to have to take your hand off of the block button, and 
 you will invariably get hit.
  
  The graphics are relatively impressive. There's good texture work and lighting effects, but the 
 character models don't fare so well, looking similar to the relatively low detail models of Dead 
 Rising. This is forgivable given that so much can be happening at once and there are system requirements 
 to consider, but it detracts from the overall quality nonetheless. The environments are generally 
 well-done, though the sea in Acre, for example, looks more like it's covered in plastic wrap. br 
 / 
  
  The sound effects in the game are generally good, but the voice acting is horrific. The NPCs will 
 repeat the same dialogue over and over and over in an unfortunate accent, which gets grating by 
 the second level. The dialogue sounds like a very loose translation of whatever the characters 
 may have been saying in their native tongue, giving the game more of the feel of a dubbed kung-fu 
 movie than some sort of deep historical narrative.
  
  Achievement hunters should take note that much of this game's achievements revolve around the mindless 
 collection of a few hundred flags scattered about, while the rest are ones that you'll likely pick 
 up during the course of the game.
  
  Assassin's Creed's linear gameplay doesn't lend much replayability, and, while not a completely 
 meritless experience, with the hype surrounding it, the aforementioned gameplay issues and the 
 lack of multiplayer, to say nothing of the company's mendacious claims of believable NPCs, it's 
 very difficult to justify paying the full $60 for this game, given the competition it has this 
 season. Those on the fence about this game would do well to rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMaxWarden
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  I love the idea behind Assassin's Creed, I really do. However no matter how beautiful the graphics 
 are or no matter how deep the plot is, if a developer asks a player to "wash, rinse and repeat" 
 the same actions to achieve the same goals the developer has to anticipate a negative reaction 
 at some point. The saving grace for this game is it's combat system. Even that sadly, gets old 
 after a period of time. I give this game an 7.5 out of 10 on the basis that I see the potential 
 that lies in this franchise. I want it to be a success, but If Assassin's Creed 2 is a copypasta 
 of a game I won't be so merciful with my review on that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solitarycow
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is probably this year's biggest disappointment for me. While the story is thought 
 provoking, the storytelling is lackluster and boring, often comparable to a lecture given by some 
 college professor.
  
  But perhaps the biggest disappointment is the actual gameplay. Yes it's fun going around with your 
 hidden blade and assassinating people at will, but the missions themselves lack and depth or creativity. 
 Not only that but they're also EXTREMELY repetitive. It's the same things over and over and over 
 again. Saving citizens, pickpocketing, eavesdropping, viewpoint climbing. There's no variety. While 
 it's fun for the first 2 hours, you realize that there's not much else to this game.
  
  And the ending absolutely.... sucks.
  
  I'm sorry Gamespot. I don't know how you could have 
 given this a 9.0. Maybe you all just played through the first 2 hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cadaverkiller
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed to me was a disappointment. It just was too long and the story line was very confusing. 
 Especially if you missed a glitch. Also there is no multiplayer which is a setback for any game. 
 However some of the good things for it were it was extremely fun to play. Even for me and I don't 
 like stealth games because I just want to go around and kill someone whenever I want to. Also I 
 thought that the main character if normal time looked like Adam Sandler so that made me laugh. 
 Over all this is a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtruckseries
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't dare divulge the major story elements of this game but, what I will say is that I am 
 extremely disappointed in Ubisoft for taking the storytelling route they took. 
  
  You begin the game in a computer interface. A quasi virtual-reality something or rather called 
 the ANIMUS. The Animus is being run by what comes off as a megalomaniacal mad scientist and his 
 sexy assistant  employed by the Abstergo corporation. 
  
  Abstergo corporation is searching for something buried deep in your genetic code. 
  
  Your 
 name is Desmond Miles and you are the unwilling guinea pig lying on the table who is given a choice: 
 either cooperate, or we'll put you in a coma, take what we want and then let you die. 
  
  Once you make the obvious choiceDesmond's ancestral memories which have been encoded in his DNA 
 is activated by the ANIMUS and you are mentally teleported back into the shoes of your distant 
 relative "Altair" who happened to be an assassin in the time of the Holy Crusades. 
  
  Richard the Lionheart intends to re-capture Jerusalem for Christianity but Islam's leader Saladin 
 is determined not to let that happen. Altair is ordered by the leader of his guild to Assassinate 
 nine traitors who are propagating the Crusades, and he must travel through multiple cities: Jerusalem, 
 Acre, Damascus and Masyaf. 
  
  
  REACTION 
  
  My problem with the background story of Assassin's Creed is obvious. Why the hell would a game 
 that advertises itself as a stealth action game in ancient times be set in the present and rewound 
 through technology. 
  
  Imagine seeing Doctor Emmet Brown and Marty use the Delorien to time travel back to Christ's crucifixion 
 to find out where his burial was. 
  
  It is preposterous to say the least. 
  
  I bought this game so I could be an assassin. I wanted to roam the holy land, killing bag guys 
 and making my name feared and exhalted while I was robbing people blind. 
  
  The parts where you are playing as Altair are great but the constant technological interface intrusions 
 of the ANIMUS hovering about, feel as out of place here as a Nintendo Wii would in Noah's Ark. 
 
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS 
  
  The Graphics of Assassin's Creed easily reminded me of the movie Kingdom of Heaven and of Passion 
 of the Christ. 
  
  The cities are beautiful. 
  
  Buildings are made up of such highly devised color schemes and high polygon counts that they easily 
 can be mistaken for photorealistic on a High Definition television. Draw distances are extensive 
 and you can see for expanses of digital horizon. Within 30 minutes of starting the game you will 
 already see some of the most fantastic landscapes and distant water effects the XBOX 360 has to 
 offer, but even those visuals are just skin deep. 
  
  Assassin's Creed offers visceral excitement. 
  Altair has the same abilities Sam Fisher from 
 Splinter Cell had in which he was perfectly acrobatic, perfectly agile and perfectly balanced. 
 Altair can balance himself to walk on 
  tight ropes and poles, climb up the side of basically anything that offers him leverage and can 
 hop across ledges in ways that make squirrels look clumsy. 
  
  The game's high points come from the tingling feelings you get in the back of your mind when you 
 have Altair climb to death defying heights and survey the land mass around you. Altair has "eagle 
 eyes" which is basically a type of high zoom  target acquisition system which displays your targets 
 in gold, informants in white and soldiers in red. 
  Once you are done observing, you can make a death-defying leap from 100 feet up into the soft spot 
 landings in hay bails that are placed near vantage points. 
  
  
  Glitches in the MatrixI mean, the ANIMUS allow you to trigger alternate viewpoints if you press 
 a face button when you see them. This is a minor addition to the game, but it is nice being given 
 the choice to switch viewpoints since it gives the game a feeling closer to a high budget movie 
 during the cutscenes. 
  
  What also makes Assassin's Creed stand out is that the cities feel like living places due to the 
 high amount of people walking around. This "crowd" is a welcomed addition of next generation gaming 
 due to the fact it takes tremendous processing power and memory to render each person and then 
 give them realistic behaviors. If you commit an assassination in front of people, they will all 
 see you do it and will react in fear  calling soldiers to arrest you. The people walking around 
 also give you a chance to collect information through "eavesdropping" but in order to do this, 
 you must first sit on a bench and then use the L-trigger to target the person you want to listen 
 in on. 
  
  I was also amaized by Altair's detailing which is reminiscent of the hand-drawn animations Ubisoft 
 used to bring Sam Fisher to life. Whether he is climbing up the side of a rock face - while visualy 
 shifting his weight and balance - or casting his eyes over his shoulders, Altair is a physicaly 
 dynamic sight as enjoyable to watch as Lara Croft. 
  
  Unfortunately, Altair's grace and detail only call attention to the lesser detail of the townspeople 
 and guards who have considerably lower poly counts and less garment textures. Its obvious this 
 was done to allow more people on screen at once due to the technological limitations but, this 
 could be solved in the next generation of console systems with Quad Core CPU's and 4 Gigabytes 
 of RAM as well as 2GB of Video RAM. 
  I am anxious to see if Assassin's Creed will look better on a high-end desktop gaming PC with specs 
 like this. 
  
  
  
  CONTROLS 
  
  
  Movement is split into two different styles. "High Profile" and "Low Profile". 
  
  The L Trigger 
 toggles Low profile movement. By holding it, you might press the B button to trigger Altair to 
 gently nudge people aside. 
  Hold the R-Trigger and that low profile nudge becomes a High profile shove. 
  
  Shoving instead 
 of nudging annoys onlookers around you - making your overall behavior which is monitored by the 
 "social status meter" quickly turn from the "OK" Yellow, to the "You'd better get the hell outta 
 there" RED. 
  
  Similar to stealth genre games like Metal Gear Solid it becomes necessary to break the line of 
 sight of guards for a while in order to get the heat off of you if you've made too many moves that 
 bring suspicion. The reason why low and high profile movement is important is because if you have 
 just committed an assassination and the heat is on, you can blend into the crowds of people around 
 you by pressing and holding the "Blend" button (A) which causes Altair to mimic a praying monk. 
 
  
  While the High/Low profile system isn't necessarily bad, it would have been much more intelligent 
 if the developers simply allowed you to toggle that mode with the D-Pad. The trigger buttons require 
 sufficient force and timing to manipulate and are nowhere near as convienient as a simple toggle 
 switch to automaticaly remap all keys. 
  
  Running is always considered high profile and thus you are required to squeeze the R-Trigger in 
 order to sprint. In order to run, you must hold both the R-Trigger and the (A) button which changes 
 from "blend" to "run". 
  
  Climbing is also considered high profile. You must hold the R-Trigger, then the (A) button to climb, 
 but, you must also use the Left analog stick to navigate Altair from stone to stone on your way 
 up the side of whatever you are climbing. 
  
  Combat is extremely tricky because the combat system makes use of the high/low profile system for 
 both assassinations and for hand-hand or sword-sword combat. You have an "empty hand" button and 
 a "weapon hand" button. If you use the empty hand when near someone, you can grab them, at which 
 point you must press (B) to throw them. The (X) button is the weapon hand button and quickly tapping 
 it causes you to do a swift strike with your fist or sword while holding it before releasing it, 
 offers you a stronger strike depending on the time you held it down. 
  Furthermore, since you shouldn't be walking around with a sword drawn  attracting attention  
 you also need to sheath and unsheathe it before attempting swordfights. 
  
  There is also a "fistfight" mode you enter in to beat information out of people but, you need to 
 follow them to a secluded area first. You enter this mode with a press of the L-Trigger. 
  
  If you need to refill your throwing knives or get information, you can "pickpocket" people 
 you target by pressing (B) . You need to be sure they aren't looking your way because this means 
 they are suspicious. 
  
  There are also changes made to the 4 action buttons on your controller which change their function 
 from offensive: low profile moves (like grabbing, attacking and "stepping"?) to high profile: Defensive 
 moves like counter-grabs, counter-attacks and dodging. 
  Counter-moves require swift thinking and timing by the way. 
  
  
  If anything I've said sounds 
 confusing, that is because it really is! 
  Learning to control Altair is an adventure all in itself and why Ubisoft felt the need to re-invent 
 the third person control dynamics they have continuously used in their other star games is beyond 
 me. 
  Splinter Cell for example, through each of its games took multiple weapons, multiple movements 
 and multiple actions and managed to elegantly integrate those movements into a simple to use interface. 
 
  In Assassin's Creed, learning simply to run, and, more importantly, in a "socially acceptable manner" 
 becomes a chore. 
  
  
  OVERALL 
  
  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game and a great adventure. Unfortunately my main disappointment 
 with the game is unshakeable. I could have overlooked the pedantic control scheme, but what I absolutely 
 cannot shake is my disappointment in the plot and setting. I don't care if every game reviewer 
 on earth gives this game 5 stars. 
  Assassin's Creed does not lend itself well to the suspension of disbelief and it does not lend 
 itself well to the average gamer. It boggles my mind how the creators of Splinter Cell and so many 
 other great games let this game reach final production in this form. 
  
  I enjoyed every minute I spent playing as Altair in this Holy Land but I lamented being pulled 
 away by this bogus ANIMUS to a memory sequence  rather than just a transition made by foot and 
 horseback. I enjoyed stalking enemies and stabbing them in the throat but, I was abhorred seeing 
 computer glitches and heads up displays flashing across my screen. 
  
  What bothers me most of all is that Assassin's Creed's producers spent so much time integrating 
 the ridiculous "present time" sequences of the game that they neglected to add immersion into the 
 Holy Land. ' 
  
  Why is there no currency system so that I can steal money via pickpocketing and then 
  use that 
 money to buy weapons, food (health) and armor like any hybrid RPG would. 
  
  Why is there no allegiance meter like there was in Ubisoft's Splinter Cell: Double Agent which 
 would allow you to make moral choices and "trust" choices between you, your guild and perhaps other 
 parties? 
  
  
  And worst of all Assassin's Creed isn't even an XBOX LIVE game. There are no downloads, no add-ons 
 and worst of all NO MULTIPLAYER. 
  You mean to tell me that it never crossed the minds of anyone at Ubisoft that since the Assassin's 
 had a guild and they all dressed alike that coop play or even deathmatches could be possible online 
 wherein everyone could be an Assassin and have a ranking system? For God's sakes, most of the game 
 is a war between Christian Crusaders and the Islamic army. Why is there no Christian Crusaders 
 vs. Islamic army like Red vs. Blue in the Halo games? 
  
  I paid $60 for Assassin's Creed and once I beat the game, the only replay value to be had is in 
 either showing my friend's the game's graphics or searching for hidden flags in the game's cracks 
 and crevices in much the same way I searched for skulls in Halo 3. 
  
  A weak secondary mission profile has you saving citizens from corrupt guards but the reward mechanism 
 for this isn't as fleshed out as the aformentioned loyalty system in Splinter Cell: DA 
  
  As much as I wanted to be able to give this game 5 stars, I'm afraid I must give it just 3. As 
 much as I wanted to identify with the Assassin's guild (cults of personality are a current social 
 popularity trend in games) I found it impossible to do so. It hurts me deeply, but I am left wanting 
 my money back. 
  
  Graphics aren't everything. What Assassin's Creed adds in terms of story, backdrop and adventure; 
 it takes away equally with attempts at sophistication and lack of variety. 
  
  
  
  Approach with caution. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko_hodgson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  i thought this was gonna be a game that had loads of hype but the gameplay was rubbish but now 
 i see things in a different way! 
  
  There is so much depth to this game. The vast land that you can explore is exceptional and the 
 views are spectacular. Going 2 the cities is fun because it's just what you would find back in 
 1191 AD.
  
  Climbing + exploring is amazing. You can climb almost anything! Chases are entertaining whether 
 you are catching someone or running away!
  
  The only set back was that i was confused at the start about being in modern day and everything. 
 But thats just me and i understood everything eventually. 
  
  Well done Ubisoft because you have created one hell of a game won my vote for game of the year!!! 
 :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant a must buy game on ps3 all hardcore gamers will love this however I completed 
 it in just 3 days . Although its very short you must get it it includes strong violence and jumping 
 rooftop to rooftop. Also the combat is well enjoyable along with the realistic characters and surroundings 
 especially the new crowd reactions and seeing if you are been watched. what a great game . Altair 
 the main character one of the assassins follows his master al mualim to assassinate nine special 
 people on his way to peace . the game is set in isreal in the holy land of isreal in 1191. apart 
 from all this brilliance it has one problem too much talking and cut scenes wich are non skipable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesomo5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  im getting the game cuz i rented it first wat the guy said was awesome and true. if you get a chance 
 to play it do it or buy it BUT rent it first cuz it might not be your thing. i give it 9.5 NOT 
 10 almost the best and its in my top 5 Xbox360 Games. and i like pie do you like pie?, wheeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
 wooohoooo MARIO YOSHI. sorry it has to be 100 words ok so bye bye thanx for reading adios amidos 
 and senioritas. DRAMATIC PRAIRE DOG IS COOL. DAMN more words AHHHHH (rips hair out of head screams) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this straight out of the way, the graphics are one of the best that i have ever seen, 
 it might even give elder scrolls a run for their money. But the one thing that i didn't find too 
 appealing was the constant repatitiveness of the game. same thing over and over again, climb towers 
 ,recover documents and then off the target. that's all it is... I'll give the developers credit 
 for doing their homerwork on the crusades. the towns and villages look very much like what it would 
 have looked like back then. 
  I didn't too much care for the controls either, maybe it just me but i didn't feel like the game 
 was responding very well to commands. Then's theres the age old fixer that game deveolpers have 
 been using to give you something to do when your bored... finding flags, or tokens, or whatever, 
 scattered all around the area, hundreds of them. So to this day they still think we're impressed 
 by having to wander around the area looking for these stupid flags? i couldn't be bothered. Another 
 things i didn't like was the constant use of blending in all the time, i spent 99% of the time 
 blending in, so you spend twice as long trying to get somewhere at a snails pace then actually 
 walking. So all in all, if you have a 360 its one of those games that you have to try and see for 
 yourself. over all a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garyrage
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  ... and I don't mean that in a good way. It's about as deep of a game as the original Space invaders, 
 however, almost 30 years have passed and games are supposed to e-v-o-l-v-e. Once you get through 
 the first mission, there really isn't any reason to continue playing. This game IS repetitive! 
 repetitive! repetitive! I can't remember the last time I bought a game and didn't even want to 
 play it through once. How does Gamespot rate this higher than Mass Effect? No clue on that one. 
 For those of you still on the fence on whether or not to buy it, do yourself a favor and don't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a mix of "really awesome" with a whole lot of "total garbage" dropped right on top.
 
  
  First the good, then I'll mix in a lot of the bad.
  
  The animation is superb. Simply the best animation in any game I've seen to date. Sure, some of 
 them may have been recycled from Prince of Persia (most definitely the case) , but this is not a 
 bad thing consider the high quality. The Montreal Studio really should just outsource there animation 
 and skip making games all together. It would elevate the industry to a new level without us having 
 to put up with the mess of a game that is AC.
  
  The graphics in this game are also great. I can deal with lower quality graphics as long as the 
 animation is good, but thankfully they got these two things right. There is some occasional glitchiness 
 with the graphics. Tearing here and there. Plenty of clipping. There will also be random polygon 
 flickering on the screne at just about every point in the game. It's pretty minor, but it's there 
 none the less.
  
  The sound is great too. Some of the voice clips are recycled WAY to often, but all of the voice 
 work is top notch. You don't ever imagine someone in a sound studio sipping on tea and reading 
 lines while typing a text message on their iPhone. The music is also really well done. I am still 
 humming the main theme song as I type this review.
  
  The game is indeed "open ended" but also is focused into levels. There are 3 major cities, and 
 each one is split up into 3 segments. You can only access 1 segment on your first trip, and later 
 on the other segments open up. When you are working on anything in the unlocked segments there 
 is really no reason to ever be in the previous segments at all, unless you missed something previously.
 
  
  The only thing you would be able to do is go back and collect flags that are sprinkled around the 
 game. This can be addicting for awhile, but once you get all the obvious ones there is really no 
 reason to go find the ones you missed. Sure you get an achievement for finding flags, but I couldn't 
 care less about that. Maybe having added in a system that makes finding them a bit funner, and 
 more interactive, then just spotting them would have been nice.
  
  The objectives in the game are actually quite fun too, at the start. Some of absurdly easy, while 
 others are borderline punishing. There really are no side quests in the game other then collecting 
 the flags mentioned before. All of the objectives are required in some capacity. You are given 
 6 objectives for each "level". Depending on the level, you need to complete a certain number of 
 them to unlock the major "assassination quest" that is the sole purpose for each level. There are 
 only really 3-4 different types of objectives since many are duplicated each level. Pickpocketing 
 for example. PAINFULLY easy to do, but still kind of fun. By the end of the game these are really 
 just a freebie because they are impossible to be bad at. Anyone looking to blitz through the game 
 should just cut straight to these.
  
  The funnest objective is easily the Viewpoint objectives. These really are one of the best points 
 of the entire game. You climb a tall building and click the "view" button that will cause a cool 
 cinematic shot panning around the character standing on top of a huge tower. What this ends up 
 doing is filling in your map around this area with details such as quest objectives and street 
 layout. Since the climbing mechanic can be so fun, completing these really is like solving a little 
 puzzle each time. Often you have to kill a guard or two to complete, so strategy is involved, although 
 killing a handful of guards can be done fairly quickly.
  
  Once you start the assassination quest, all of the unfinished objectives no longer remain available. 
 This kind of sucks if you are a completist wanting to finish them all (more achievements) because 
 you end up having to restart the level which results in repeating a LOT of gameplay.
  
  There are a few gameplay mechanics that encompass the entire game. The best part is the climbing/running 
 mechanics, that when they work, work really well. Sadly, when they fail, they fail BIG time. The 
 control scheme for this mechanic works perfectly. You hold down a few buttons and just move the 
 stick the direction you want to go. The game, for the most part, auto navigates from object to 
 object. When this is working correctly your character will be blitzing across city rooftops, up 
 walls, and through crowds of people with ease. Unfortunately the mechanic will often fail to "guess" 
 what object you want to move to next and will instead make you do something disastrously the opposite. 
 This creates way too many extremely frustrating situations. A game's difficulty should be part 
 of the game, not wrestling with broken controls. Much of this becomes painfully obvious during 
 areas where you jump your character from post to post over water. I can even remember how many 
 times I would watch my character miss a post to the left or right by just a smidge, and fall into 
 the water. Water = death in AC. You land in water, you die instantly. Kind of stupid. This kind 
 of thing would happen when trying to jump along 5 posts that are set in a straight line. You can 
 line it up perfectly before starting, yet still manage to take a swim on the 3rd or 5th post, despite 
 still having everything lined up perfectly. This aspect of the game really would be useful for 
 making anyone into a raging expletive despensor. It did for me.
  
  The other major element of the game is the combat system. If you have any familiarity with the 
 PoP combat system, and you hated it, then avoid AC all together. At first it seems ok and manageable, 
 but as the game goes on the enemies start to develop something of a resistance to any of the easy 
 to execute moves. Early on the "counter attack" move is a one shot kill on any enemies that you 
 use it on. Later in the game it becomes 100% useless. I can understand the reasoning for making 
 it less effective, but completely nullifying it is a bit stupid considering it's the only really 
 combat maneuver that you can successfully pull off. Whenever you are in combat, most of the time 
 it will be against many enemies at once. It's common to have at least 5-8 enemies on you each fight. 
 This makes the general "attack" move pretty much worthless because any time you attack one guard, 
 the other guards all start swinging away. Yes the block button works against these attacks, but 
 not if you are still in the middle of a long animation sequence. Thankfully the actually act of 
 finishing off an enemy is almost always satisfying. They spit out a nice grunt, plenty of blood, 
 and if you did it just right you get to see a very cinematic action shot of your character chopping 
 them in soft places.
  
  As the game progresses you do unlock other combat abilities, but unfortunately the level of accuracy 
 for using them is roughly 10%. There is a "grab" move this is almost impossible to do. There is 
 also a move that lets you deflect away an enemies sword, thus leaving them open to attack. Unfortunately 
 it is absolutely impossible to do. I landed it a few times in the practice area, but was completely 
 unable to use it even once in the actually gameplay portions.
  
  The story in the game is extremely good.... at first. (didnt see that coming did you) The story 
 really does have a major twist to it from the get-go, and is the major reason I kept playing after 
 hitting the half way point. Once you get 8 hours in there really is nothing new to see except for 
 new story elements. Sadly the game comes to a very abrupt, non-conclusive, disapointing end. Imagine 
 the TV show Lost. Now imagine the TV show Lost being cancelled after the 1st season. Yeah.. it 
 sucks that bad. Virtually zero explanation of what was going on with the major story arc. Some 
 little bits are explained, but are just not as fulfilling as what may have been possible with wrapping 
 up the main arc. Apparently this is motivation to purchase any sequels that may get made, which 
 at this point seem to be a pretty obvious conclusion.
  
  The final "boss" fight is a total joke. What a piece of trash. Take all of the broken bits of the 
 combat system, remove the fun parts, remove the effective parts, and let the boss have a one shot 
 kill most of the time. Yes that sounds like garbage. Yes it is garbage. I can't help but think 
 this portion of the game was skipped entirely by the game testers, because if it HAD been played 
 I am sure they would have stabbed a few people. This boss encounter is easily one of the lamest, 
 poorly implemented boss encounters in the history of "mediocre" games. Sure there have been worse 
 out there, but only in games that are %100 suckage. None in games that have this much good going 
 on.
  
  Topping off the boss encounter comes the abrupt ending, followed by 15 minutes of uninteruptable 
 credits. You can't skip them at all. But once you DO get through them (thanks for hijacking my 
 360 for 15 minutes) you get an achievement. Woopty friggin doo. Being forced to wait for credits 
 to end JUST to get an achievement is the kind of stupidity that fosters gameplay elements such 
 as "one shot kills from bosses". Completely absurd.
  
  I would have given this game at LEAST an 8.5 had I stopped playing it after 8 hours. Doing so would 
 have saved me from the embaressment that is the rest of the game.
  
  If anything, rent this game or borrow it for a day. Even if you rent it, don't play it longer then 
 1 or 2 sittings. Trust me, you have seen it ALL if you get this far in.
  
  P. S. - Sorry for all the spelling errors. I know there are plenty. The "spell check" button below 
 told me so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Once again the Ubisoft Montreal studio has raised the gaming level with their latest game Assassin's 
 Creed. I bought this game as it was on sale in a combo pack CoD4: MW. When I first popped this game 
 in my 360 it was just to see what it was like as I wanted to get back to my other game. 10 hours 
 later I finally turned off my 360 and I wasn't even half way thorough the game. There are a lot 
 of side missions that add to the life of the game. It's like Hitman back in 1191! If you don't 
 have this, run don't walk to the store and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEster24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  To me there are no flaws. I especially like the way that you can blend in and jump from building 
 to building. The only thing that i would like to see is that make it harder to sneak attack or 
 maybe harder to kill someone. Another thing is that i was expecting more weapons. Also i really 
 thought that there would be a lot more of combat against harder people something like a B. A. boss. 
 Other that all of that I think that there are words to express the way i feel about this game. 
 Its is one of the best games on XBOX 360 today. The day that i got it I played all night i had 
 no sleep for over 24 hours because of this game. Its worth the buy and worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: music_maniac1965
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  our friends at ubisoft montreal have did it again. after enjoying so much of prince of persia sands 
 of time (and its follow up's) we finaly get a game with just as cool moves (you will soon see how 
 cool the main character does some free running and climbing.) only one thing is bad for whatever 
 game, and that is the hype surrounding it, witch ubisoft had to thank mainly to themselves.
  
  the bad thing is, with all those prommises, you let your game audiance expect to mucn from 
 your game, and without a demo before the officiall release, its hard to think how the game will 
 turn up. i know, this does not sound so posotive, but i only wanted to point out that manny gamers 
 out there WILL be disapointed with the game, just because they expected so much more.
  
  so, lets start with the good, and the bad:
  
  good:
  
  + animation just as fluid as they 
 prommised. you can see this at work in the video review on gamespot.
  + story is told verry well. mainly thanks to the exelent voice acting, and sometimes really moodfull 
 music to drag you into the assassin's world.
  + save wherever you stand.
  + graphics are phenomenal, just remind yourself that only games that have not such wide environment's 
 can look better, because the engine does not have to load up such a big place at once, cince you 
 are being led trough a certain route trough the streets (for example in graw)
  + people in the world responds to your actions, and can beg for money.
  + superb to expiriance 
 this wonderfull action game. stealth is back with a bang !
  
  bad:
  
  - while climbing the rooftops, you will hear someone yelling he/she's in trouble. even if you return 
 to them 10 minutes later, they are still being beaten up by those guards. how can someone survive 
 4 or 5 atackers for so long ? the people seem unbeatable, but can't fight back :-P
  - you can climb over houses, no matter how big they are, but why oh why does your hero is not capable 
 to climb a rock or mountain ?
  - auto aim for the leap of faith feels weird.
  - because of the hype, and the video's being released on xbox live, i expected to much, so this 
 does remove a bit from the game's shine.
  - like gamespot said, the game feels repetive because you have to work out all misions in the same 
 way as the other. i dont mind this THAT much, but they could have worked around this a bit more.
 
  
  i'm satisfied enough with this game to overlook those bad things. they do not ruin this game for 
 me, and when you realize that this is the first game of its kind, its exelent to see what they 
 have achieved. i really look forwards to a sequell, to see what they might finetune to get this 
 game even more amazing than it allready is.
  
  graphics: 8.5. exelent characters, even the bussy streets of the citty has such wonderfully detailed 
 people walking around, while the world is looking even more amazing sometimes. the first leap of 
 faith is breath taking, and so is the draw distance.
  
  sound: 10. genuine sound fx, superb voice acting, and a suiting musical score to put the icing 
 on this extremely delicious cake. the reactions from town folks do get repeades once in a while, 
 but overall this feels and sound like a living and breathing world.
  
  playabillity: 9.5. right from the start, you are being tought how to sneek, be invisible (by blending 
 into the crowds) , and how to fight and kill the one you need to kill. just one thing, and that's 
 when you do things for the first time, like pocket picking, you might missread the directions as 
 to "how to" pick a pocket. the first time i needed to do that, i everytime got cought. much later 
 i found out that the B button has to be HOLD untill the pocket is picked. so a bit more clear text 
 that tells you how to play the new things you are going to do would be nice.
  
  lastabillity: 9.5. i know for sure that if i finish this game, i want to play it some more, from 
 the start, and from checkpoints that might come in handy to get all the missions done.
  
  totall score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The perfect game. Assassins Creed is one of the best XBOX 360 games out there. The rich beautiful 
 design of the characters and enviorments make this awsome, also a perfect combination of stealth 
 action and censeless violence. Story, music, voice acting, and sound effects are perfect easily 
 making this one of the best games of the year. Ubisoft made one of the best games I have ever played 
 in my whole life. Gameplay is smooth and is easy to control. Does not get repetitive or boring. 
 Has historical accurasy and you dont see the same faces every where you go. This game is a perfect 
 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc_smock
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  i will start off simply by saying that this is not a game that will only appeal to stealth fanatics. 
 in fact i got through most of the assassinations by jumping out of the sky frothing at the mouth 
 and taking on around 20 guards using only my combat knife like "short blade". The combat is easy 
 and most guards can be dealt with with a simple well timed button press which makes the action 
 portion of the game feel fun and rewarding, if a little repetitive.
  
  However that is also not to say that this is an action game, or in any way an easy game. because 
 as you may have guessed, you're just as easily killed as you're enemies and as a result alot of 
 the combat is reliant on your ability to quickly pull a runner if the going gets tough or switch 
 weapons on the fly to assassinate people while they're stunned. if you do prefer the stealth route 
 then the game will reward you for that as well, both in the way that your assassinations will be 
 over much faster and that you'll get special achievements for being a silent assassin.
  
  however the main reason for getting this game and the reason that i fell in love with it, are the 
 graphics. they are amazing, more detailed than gears of war and at a vaster scale than oblivion 
 with a slightly dirty style that vaguely reminds me of resident evil 4. despite owning a 360 it's 
 safe to say that i'm not a graphics connoisseur and usually i couldn't care less about this sort 
 of thing, but the level at which this game is running is much higher than anything else on a console 
 right now. the sheer beauty of it made my jaw drop (no kidding) on several occasions, in particular 
 my first view of damascus, which was nothing short of breathtaking.
  
  the few problems I have found with the game so far is the slow pace which may put some more aggressive 
 players off, and the very occasional glitches. also, the only time i have been victim to a glitch 
 was forgiven because the game decided to give me the "kill ## templars" achievement for falling 
 through a house and out of the game.
  
  overall, assassins creed is a brilliant game, which despite mixed reviews lived up to my expectations 
 very well. the only game I would replace it for now is probably rock band, but that's not out in 
 the UK for a few months (cheap bstrds) so I'll be playing this until christmas and probably still 
 enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltfan15
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  alright so i got this game a couple of days ago and i was so excited to play it. i took off that 
 amazing plastic rapper that bugs the heck out of me. put the game in my 360 and started it up. 
 starting my story and acheviment run first off i was like wow these graphics are pretty good i 
 loved it then i started to really play the game and i got in to the motions and the graphics are 
 not as good when you get on the outside world still great im not going to lie. Anyways i started 
 to do my first missions. very very fun new stuff that i have never done before in the game. then 
 i got to my second mission. still fun starting to get a little old the climbing is not fun at all 
 once you start to get into the game i start to want that part to speed up. you have to save citizens 
 over and over not fun anymore. this game really is just the same thing over and over with new faces 
 and new names. the towns have even started to look the same to me. i know i sound like im bashing 
 the game. and i kind of am. but to tell you the truth this game is a very good game. maybe not 
 a game you would want to buy at 60 dollars but a game you should buy or even rent. the other thing 
 i dont like is that there is no online which is a little dissapointing. oh well. again overall 
 you should pick it up some time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-radreg07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  This is a revision from my first review for which I scored the game a 9.5. I've bumped it down 
 to 8.5 for only one reason. After awhile of running around doing only a small variety of tasks 
 to get assassination missions, it grows a little bit old. I thought I would play the game for a 
 long time but I find myself tiring of the broken record objectives. The story is good though and 
 I'm curious on where it is going. If that falls short in the end, I will most likely revise the 
 review again.
  
  Pros - Open gameplay, cool assassin stuff, decent looking graphics, good story (so far)
  Cons 
 - some glitches, repetative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I made sure i finished the game before reviewing.
  The game started out for me with bad feelings, 
  but i still gave the game benefit of doubt.
 
  
  I bought this game content with the thought i would play as a silent assassin, whose job was to 
 sneak up on people in ally's, 
  kill them when nobody's watching, getting out undiscovered, 
  and most of all: see lots of places.
 
  Apperantly i didn't inform myself enough before purchase, because
  there was none of that, and if there was, it was broken.
  After the first hour i already felt 
 this game resembled 
  Prince of Persia and Splinter Cell to much.
  Not a reinvention of Thief, which i kinda hoped.
  
  The game ambiance was quite authentic, 
 but while the game lasted a
  good 12 hours, i never felt like getting any further. 
  The game is composed out of 7 chapters, staged in 3 cities.
  All 3 cities look alike, except 
 they each have a filter, and some small 
  differences, like a harbor, or some minor landscape alteration.
  
  It was just climbing towers, 
 do a few mini-games like
  "Pick-pocketing" and "Beat the informer", thus gathering 3 information
  elements, run back to 
 your assassin bureau and get green light for
  assassination, which was supposed to be the fun part.
  
  If the guards weren't so overly aggressive 
 i might've enjoyed running 
  from them, but they were apparently also trained assassins, 
  climbing a roof as fast as you do, jumping like athletes, gaining on you.
  I've cursed a few 
 times when my main character wouldn't grab to a
  ledge, of which i was definitely sure was reachable.
  
  The combat controls left alot to desire, 
 counterattacking was the only
  was to beat enemies when totally surrounded (which happens quite
  often in the game) . This game 
 was not about sneaking, it was about
  killing bosses, with 20 soldiers around them, very action-adventure.
  
  Another thing which 
 crossed my mind was how achievement orientated
  this game was. Each city had 100 flags to collect, 30 civilians to save and
  20 towers to climb. 
 It reminded me of a game called Crackdown.
  
  I don't buy an assassin game to collect 500, flags mind you.
  It's as if they were desperatly 
 trying to lenghten the lifespan of this repetitive
  game, which i somewhat enjoyed, but in the end left too much to desire.
  
  And also, the ending 
 is unforgivable. Too much developers make new
  IP, with the first part clearing the way for sequels, instead of making a
  single-part killer 
 game. 
  
  Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alch3mist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  There has been much talk about this game thanks to demo fiasco back at E3 since that time the team 
 at Ubisoft has hard at working making this one best gaming experience of Holiday season of 2007. 
 Did this game deliver a fun and fresh experience to gamers and the answer is Yes.
  
  Story line- Without giving away too much the plot goes like this your a young man name Desmond 
 Miles who's ancestor was a Assassin during the Third Crusade and is part of the Assassin's Guild. 
 A man name Dr. Warren Vidic and he wants you to used his new machine called the Animus and unlock 
 his ancestor's memories for some reason. The Doctor won't tell what he looking for all that he 
 would tell Desmond is that its in your ancestor's memories. Lucy Stillman works for the doctor 
 and she's no help either but she does give you her support through out the game and she cares about 
 Desmond Miles.
  
  Game play- When lay down into the Animus you are sent back to the past as Desmond Mile's ancestor 
 who name is Altair Ibn La-Ahad or for short Al-Tair as everyone calls you. The game has very nice 
 controls and moving through as the city is a lot of fun and finding new ways to out think your 
 pursers makes each encounter fun. When you fight you have a long, short sword, daggers and assassin's 
 blade all can be used during a fight. Depending on the situation you will have change weapons or 
 flee the choice is your's. The counter attacks animation are very well done and AI is very tough 
 and they know how to fight and counter just like you.
  
  Graphics- The environment look amazing and details very well done and people look and dress like 
 they did back then. And even sometimes you might hear some Arabic or French from some of warriors 
 you face. But the graphics do pop in and some times textures take a while to pop in or game slow 
 s down because of this I hope Ubisoft can fix this problem in the next game. 
  
  Sound- the sound in this game is top notch from crowds in the market to empty hill side everything 
 sounds great and Voice acting is very good the only bad thing I have to say is that many of the 
 civilians have same voice and everyone repeats the same lines over and over again. it can get kinda 
 annoying
  
  Overall-This one of the best game you can get this holiday season so pick it up and you won't be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twolegsbad
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Playing Assassin's Creed is like being a REAL LIFE COP in THE MATRIX watching a GREAT MOVIE at 
 a SPECIALTY DELI while a DOG GETS BUSY with his leg. Don't believe mejust read on my friend, read 
 on.
  
  Playing AC is like REAL LIFE. After you do something really awesome, you wish you could go back 
 and do it again... but you can't. Life uses check point saves and doesn't let you reload a previous 
 save, so if you live at a slow pace and then something great happens you can't reload and experience 
 it again and change things up. Tough crap, you'll just have to live your boring life until something 
 great happens again - and that's gonna be awhile.
  
  Playing AC is like being a COP. The pacing is horrible, you go at a snails pace, you perform monotonous 
 tasks, you wait wait wait, and then for an intense moment you are thrust into the action you've 
 been waiting for, and THEN you go back to your snails pace and monotony to grind some more.
  
  Playing AC is like being in THE MATRIX. It may be technically pretty advanced and have a lot 
 of cool stuff in it, it may have great graphics and sound effects... but the truth is it's not what 
 you hoped and it sucks. And since I remember that a game should be fun, you can forget the 9.0 
 score based on technical adequacy.
  
  Playing AC is like watching a GREAT MOVIE - but every time you are really getting immersed your 
 friend pauses the movie, turns on the light, pops some popcorn and generally reminds you "it's 
 just a movie" so you can't get too immersed. Every time you really start to get into the ancient 
 world, AC yanks you into the burdensome future - completely interrupting your game-enjoyment groove.
 
  
  Playing AC is like ordering foreign delicacies at a cultural SPECIALTY DELI. The menus are just 
 painful. They are slow to use, a pain to read, the letters seem to be shifting constantly, and 
 when you do order you might not get what you thought was being advertised.
  
  Playing AC is like a DOG GETTING BUSY with your leg. You can try to put those things together, 
 some people may even like it, but really those things just DO NOT go together. AC tries to mix 
 some high tech Matrixy I Robot kind of feel with  
 and it does not work. You are trying to be a Crusades-era Assassin and you have this high techy 
 digital stuff every time you look at your HUD, your map, your pause menus, or even target things 
 in game. Every time something cool is about to happen the game blows the atmosphere.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I wanted to love this game. I was so ripe for the advertised content and atmosphere 
 that I was dying to love this game. I had been playing the Orange Box and Call of Duty 4 and needed 
 a break in the form of a nice open world to enjoy... and the Crusades-Era Holy Land just sounded 
 perfect to really appeal to my interests and immerse me into an open world game. My high level 
 of anticipation led to my extreme disappointment and so I was agitated enough to write this review 
 and publicly demand my $60 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulemob
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Game is awesome visually and the controls are fairly good, but the mission and storyline are tiresome 
 and repetitive. I mean come on goto a city climb a few towers pickpocket some people and eavesdrop 
 or kill some guards. Boring I just wasted $65 with taxes on a good game? No the game over sucks 
 rotten eggs don't buy it. it's crap. Ok I'v spent about 15 hours on game started out ok this is 
 cool did the first three misions killed the guys got sent to three more missions same thing climb 
 tower look around save some people listen in pickpocket kill target boring if the whole game is 
 like this which I'm sure it is but I'll play to the end before I take it and trade it in. Game 
 sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3viliv3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  There is no such thing as a perfect game. If you're expecting a perfect game such as perfect graphics, 
 sounds, controls, etc... you'll have to wait for the second coming of Jesus or whoever your god 
 is. I've read some people compare this game to GTA, my reaction? What the hell were they smoking 
 when they saw this game? It's so different. Prince of Persia is a better comparison. This game 
 contains so many innovative ideas, and the detail they put in there just enough to give it a 8. 
 You don't think so? Take 10 minutes, run around, climb a building and study the movements. They 
 have so much detail in them besides how great they look. Each movement is pretty close to real 
 such as when you're climbing, if you stop before climbing onto the next, you notice that you can't 
 reach it without going back a little to build the momentum up again. When you run and slow down, 
 it does it just like a real person would do, you slow down - not instantly you're walking like 
 many other games. The movements are so real that you want to go outside and climb a tree just to 
 see if it feels the same after playing the game. Although the game play can get a little repetitive, 
 which game isn't? I would love to know... oh yeh, GTA, didn't you have to kill someone, jack their 
 cars or whatever, then move onto the next? And then do the same thing all over again? Oh and Hitman, 
 you hide around, wait for the programmed "right" moment, then you kill your victim - do the same 
 for the next one - same stuff, different settings. Did I already compare this game to Prince of 
 Persia? At least this game when you complete the side objectives, they are rewarded in useful ways 
 such as the the peasants will help you slow the guards down when they pursue you or help you to 
 blend so you can get pass the guards. The AI in this game is quite good. If you killed a guard 
 with your mad skillz, the other gets scared and runs away. When the guards are looking for you, 
 if you do anything funny, they WILL find you. If you locked on a character, he will notice that 
 you're looking at them and eventually they'll turn around and tell you to piss off. When you're 
 out in the country side, there are enough people want to kick your ass that you'll be busy instead 
 of just running around riding horses.
  
  As for the game play, I took 1/2 point away as I was writing this. I do agree that this game doesn't 
 have enough stealth than it should have. It's funny that you ALWAYS go outside in the daylight... 
 as an assassin. I guess that's why he wears white, easy to hide in the daylight but the red didn't 
 help... the red sticks out like a sore thumb. It's okay that he wears white, but at least when 
 you try to assassinate people... why not let the character have a sneak mode? I'm not saying that 
 you can't stealth, I'm saying that the game can use some sneak movements to add to the game.
  
  It's getting long... In short, the amount of detail is what I appreciate in this game - it's 
 not easy to animate detail realistic movements in 3D... without putting a lot of efforts. The game 
 play could improve a little, but I'm kewl with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant in all aspects.
  
  The graphics are brilliant, it really shows what xbox 360 HDMI can really do. 
  The gameplay 
 is fantastic, it's got the gameplay idea of splinter cell though the guards seem deaf and cant 
 hear you coming, so you dont need to sneak, because there isnt a sneak button, which is one of 
 the flaws, since your an assassin (i know there is a 'blend' button but its useless to me) and 
 the acrobatics of Prince of Persia (Except you cant run on walls  . ) The fighting is great, where 
 you do sweet killing moves which makes other guards scared and might run away. 
  Sound of killing and 'Blade to skin' sound effects are nice but there isnt any good music just 
 the same one repeated every time your being chased or in a battle.
  
  A great game, some minor flaws but that doesnt make you stop playing, definatly worth get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this game. Oh man. did I wait. I counted down the days. I was first in line at game 
 stop. I felt like a kid again. As if Santa would deliver this one. 
  
  I even bought the guide.
  
  What a waste. 
  
  This game does no require a guide. Unless 
 you are a slave to the 360 point system. Or drunk. Or retarded.
  
  First some history.
  
  Look at my game collection. 
  
  Really.
  
  Look at it.
  
  I own a S#$T ton of games.
 
  
  Definition. I am freaking old.
  
  Fair enough and TOUCHE'.
  
  But the truth is. I have played a TON of games.
  
  I have never in my lifetime been so let 
 down.
  
  EVER.
  
  Perhaps I would of loved this game if it was not for the the HYPE.
  
  Trust me. I know the HYPE well. 
  
  This time. THE HYPE = A LIE.
  
  Perhaps I am biased.
 
  
  But to me PERFECT graphics does not equal perfect game play.
  
  I am 28. I was entertained by CONTRA AND RIVER CITY RANSOM.
  
  I know and understand what equates 
 to a good game.
  
  This game had so much potential. 
  
  Keyword.... POTENTIAL.
  
  DEAR UBISOFT... SEARCH "SQUANDERED".
  
  I killed this game. Over 900 points in the 360 world.
 
  
  ON MY FIRST PLAY THROUGH.
  
  What did I do after the fact?
  
  DELETE MEMORY. Because. I have no inclination of ever playing this game again.
  
  
 
  
  update....
  
  I tried playing this game again. MASSIVE MISTAKE.
  
  BORING. NO CHALLENGE and LAME.
  
  IF YOU WANT A GOOD, SMART, SAND BOX GAME RENT GTA... SA... THIS 
 GAME IS NOT IT. And this is from someone who played this game for over 30 hours, has over 20 years 
 of gaming experience and is NOT blinded by GRAPHICS.
  
  Let me help you by saying this. THIS. Is NOT a stealth game. This is an action/adventure game. 
 If you are a fan of HITMAN... RUN AWAY... Imagine TOM CRUISE. BRAD PITT AND MS. JOLIE ON THE SILVER 
 SCREEN FOR 4 STRAIGHT HOURS. iT MAY LOOK GOOD. But in the end. IT is as entertaining as WHALE S#$T.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WHODEANEE
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Assasin's Creed is a unique game and for just that reason writing a review for it is a complicated 
 issue.
  The open world leaves one scooping their jaw off the floor, especially if you turn off all the 
 HUD features. And if you spend a good chunk of time simply running around doing whatever you feel 
 like doing you may find this game a whole lot more rewarding than simply blazing through the story 
 mode.
  One of the most frustrating things for me with this game was the repetitiveness of objectives. 
 Basically once you've played through the story mode for a couple of hours you'll find that the 
 rest of the game is just doing more of the same for what seems like a ludicrously long time. That 
 part of the game was quite frustrating for me.
  Also it won't take long to realize that even though the world seems huge, you don't ever enter 
 any buildings, nor use money, or items, or even power ups like in other action/adventure games. 
 You are however rewarded with some new moves and new weapons as the story progresses. 
  In summation once you beat the game unless you really want to re-experience the absolutely gorgeous 
 visuals of the game there really doesn't seem like much reason to replay through it. Quite frankly 
 I've had enough of rescuing civilians, jumping from high towers or spending an absurd amount of 
 time searching for meaningless flags.
  But there is always the thrill of throwing daggers at an unsuspecting guard. 
  In the end anyone 
 who likes open worlds or action/adventure games really ought to check out Assasin's Creed or you 
 will be missing out. But you might find that this is one of those games that you don't hang onto 
 once you finish it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentAntonio
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  It looks beautiful, the cities and citizens looks wonderful. The game is quite fun; the controls 
 are also very friendly, you can climb very tall towers and run across the roofs without fear of 
 falling; the animations are also awesome is quite fun to fight and see your character performing 
 amazing killing moves just with one button. Also the story is very original and cool, to be an 
 assassin during the crusades is great. A perfect game for the new generation consoles. You also 
 may replay the game because there are many styles to play the game and strategies to accomplish 
 your goals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burjeffton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has all the right elements to be awarded my Game of the Year. Tons of gorgeously 
 rendered environments, seemless fighting sequences, an awesome soundtrack and a few twists and 
 turns in what could be an intriguing franchise make AC the "full package".
  
  PROS: There's so much to gush on about a game that's so visually beautiful, but what impressed 
 me is what you DON'T see. When climbing a building or a wall, you never see predesigned "grab points" 
 or robotic style movement from the characters. You rarely see glitches in the AI patterns of townspeople 
 or supporting cast members. It simple works, and works seemlessly.
  
  CONS: The repetition does drag on a bit much. Climbing every tower in each city, doing the same 
 exact types of missions, etc does wear on the player. That being said, there's plenty of side projects 
 and flags to keep players busy as they move from one point to another in the game.
  
  Overall, I love this game. Not enough to spend any more time on this review, but enough to give 
 it my personal "Game of the Year". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  First off..... Awesome game!! Totally awesome game. Ubisoft has taken what most call a gamble with 
 this game and it has paid off and then some. The fact that you can pretty much do whatever you 
 want in this game (non-linear gameplay) is what makes this game a shining start. The controls are 
 good, graphics awesome and a very very good storyline. If you play this game the way it is meant 
 to be played and not rush through it you will have no regrets. From assassinations, chases through 
 streets and on buildings, the leap of faith. Assassin's Creed was asked to deliver and it did and 
 then some. Only thing I have noticed is that it does get a tad bit repetitive at times but it's 
 nothing major that's why I give this game a 9 out of 10.
  
  Assassin's Creed - The true nextgen experience!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecko4akamu24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  After a few hours with Assassin's Creed, I'm able to say it triumphs where most games fail. The 
 scenery and character design make you feel as though you are directly in the game. Altair's mysterious 
 persona lends to both a memorable character and experience overall. Running through crowds of pedestrians 
 and seeing their initial reactions is always satisfying. The control you have over Altair and what 
 he does really puts other games to shame as well. In fact, it's hard to find anything that you 
 CAN'T do with him. Following your prey, blending in with the crowd, and scaling buildings make 
 each play session unique. So far I'm really liking Assassin's Creed and am looking forward to a 
 sequel. I'll be crossing my fingers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  So could there be any game that gave you more freedom in so many ways? I don't think so. What this 
 game does, it does very well. I can't remember the last single player game that got me as hooked 
 as this game has. Here's my breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Can you say beautiful? This game looks so nice in every way it can. I love seeing bugs 
 flying around while I'm talking to someone and I just love synching up with different parts of 
 the city because it's gorgeous! I have played over 10 hrs of this game and I can't really think 
 of anything to gripe about graphics-wise...
  
  Gameplay: I can't get enough of the killing in this game and the building/wall scaling! It's so 
 much fun especially after getting used to the controls. I can't believe how fluid the game looks 
 as I jump from building to building. It's just spectacular!
  
  Audio: I love all the sounds and noises people make. I will say it would be nice to have people 
 making comments about others a little more since everybody seems to just talk about your guy (like 
 why does nobody talk about those mental guys that only push Altair around?) . The sounds are great 
 though. Very immersive.
  
  Overall, I would have to say this is one of my favorite games of all time and my fave stealth/action 
 game for sure! This is at least worth a rent and if they make the next one with co-op... it will 
 own all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigman16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Great story, great graphics. You just know when a game is good, when you just enjoy running between 
 buildings, climbing towers. Of course, it's better kill everyone around you.
  
  At first you can't see Altair as a cool character to play with, then you just realize that is a 
 Natural Born Killer. I just wish to have a wider selection of weapons and tools. The hidden blade 
 is the perfect way to end someone's life.
  
  If you enjoy The Godfather, this is the perfect game for you, with tons of better graphics, movements 
 and locations. Sound and music is very cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the few most unique and original ideas for a game to come out in years. 
 Ubisoft really took a chance with this new series since it really isn't like anything you have 
 played before. Of course, I loved the game, hence the nice 8.5/10.0 score for the game. Yes, its 
 not a 9, but not everything I love deserves a 9. Lets begin:
  
  Gameplay:
  Assassin's strong point AND weak point. The game is mainly made up of the following elements: climbing, 
 platforming, combat/assassinating, and blending. The climbing in the game is probably the most 
 revolutionary thing I have seen since the first Splinter Cell on the Xbox. Altair (your character) 
 moves so smoothy and he never has his hands or feet in the wrong position when climbing. Their 
 generally isn't anything wrong with this mechanic, aside for the clipping once and a while, making 
 it one of the strongest elements in the game. The platforming in the game is equally as awesome 
 as the climbing, with Altair making beautiful jumps from poles, roofs, chapel crosses, horses, 
 and so on. The game developers put a ton of time into making sure Altair never faltered when climbing 
 and platforming, making the game have that revolutionary feel and I can't help but stress that. 
 However, not everything is that beautiful. 
  
  The combat starts showing what fields they didn't work on hard enough. First off, the combat controls 
 are way too much of a button-mash frenzy then they should be, with almost everything done with 
 either the X or B button. Sure, you have to hold done the R trigger for blocking and countering, 
 but thats holding, not mashing. Another thing I didn't like about the combat was that the instructions 
 for how to preform a certain kill were vague at best. When you think you preform a combo kill, 
 you actually didn't because you have to activate a kill cutscene in order for it to count as one 
 (what?) . Also, why isn't their more to the kill motion? it would have been nice to see more animations 
 for killing the enemies. Besides that, the combat is pretty responsive and has a learning curve 
 to it because you can't just button-mash when it comes to harder enemies since they will counter 
 everything and, as the game goes on, thats all you fight so learning tactics quickly is a key to 
 victory. Another element of combat is assassinating. Why isn't this seperate? Because the assassination 
 tool is disappointingly simple. Sure, simple is a good thing, but in this case, you usually grow 
 bored of the only 4-5 animations of killing that Altair uses. Hopefully, all of this toned-down 
 simple stuff will get better in a sequel. 
  
  Finally, we get to the final element of gameplay: blending. Blending is generally learning how 
 to blend with crowd, but this mechanic isn't really that revolutionary because you can't "hide" 
 in crowds to get away from guards. The only way to get away from a guards attention is to get in 
 one of the four basic hiding devices: a market stand on top of buildings, a pile of hay, walking 
 with four white-clothed monks, and.... sitting on a bench in between two people? Does that even 
 make any sense? you can't hide in crowds, but sitting on a bench is a totally different story. 
 Besides hiding, blending is used with two buttons (when your not hiding) . The B button is used for 
 moving the crowd, which is the mechanic you see in trailers where Altair is walking a gently pushing 
 people to the side so that he can get through the crowd. This mechanic, I have found, is generally 
 useless, because you can't hide in crowds, and shoving people over with a "tackle move" (combat 
 move. while running, hold R trigger and Button button down to mow down all people in front of you 
 with a tackle) doesn't effect your status and gets you to locations much faster. The other tactic 
 is blending, which you actually do use, but only on occassion. This move is generally used for 
 getting close to assassination targets. Besides that, it doesn't hide you from enemies so you might 
 as well run. Besides all of that that, Blending works amazing well. In fact, it works TOO well 
 that it ruins the experience. You'll find yourself in this postion a ton of times: Assassinate 
 a guard, hold down the A button to blend right after killing guard, wait for next guard to come 
 look at the body (This guard was stand on the opposite side an stone arch and could plainly see 
 that you killed him) . He comes over and yells (while you are the only person standing there) " Who 
 has done this?!" So, you assassinate him quietly. That is just... stupid.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of this game are not the best of the generation so far, but they are pretty spectacular. 
 The views you see when on top of tower is just breath-taking, and the amazing details and animations 
 you see in this game are just revolutionary. The HUD is also very nice to look at, but I was thankful 
 they included an option to remove it so that you can have no HUD and enjoy the game in a cinematic 
 glory. I won't too far into the graphics because some elements will spoil the story. However, these 
 visuals are very nice and gives the game the justice it deserves.
  
  Sound:
  The music of Assassin's Creed is just.... beautiful. Jesper Kyd has done it again with the beauty 
 this game exhibits when your in an intense situation. my favorite moment in musical terms is the 
 part after you make a major assassination. The combat music right there is just beautiful. For 
 sound effects, the game generally doesn't a very nice job with sword noises, soft and loud landings, 
 and jumping through a merchant stand. The Foley artists did a good job making everything sound 
 prefect. Finally, the voice acting was very intense, making a good atmosphere for the title.
  
  Overall:
  Assassin's Creed is a game worth playing through at least once on either the Xbox 
 360, Computer, or Playstation 3. The game is an amazing experience, but it doesn't live up to the 
 colossal hype the game had behind it. Sure it has those revolutionary moments in gaming, but it 
 was supposed to be completely revolutionary, which it is not. The story of the game will probably 
 lose some people since it doesn't really have a good explanation and ends rather abruptly. Anyways, 
 give the game a whirl as either a rental or a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2577007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Just plain amazing. You very rarely see games based on history that does not have a true presence 
 in real life. Truth being told, there were assassins back throughout the crusades. The "head" assassin 
 was called "al mualim" which in arabic simply translates to "The Teacher, the Knower". UbiSoft 
 worked very hard on assassins creed and it is well rewarded. Some even say it is the GTA of the 
 middle ages. Assassins creed is a must own and regardless of you being a fan of this genre, you 
 will be talking about this game for years to come as it is one of the best games established. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  as soon as the game loads you know you are in for a beautifully done work of art as far as visuals 
 go and in saying that the actual gameplay looks just as good. all areas are very detailed and immense 
 in size which makes it easy to get lost in the city's towns and street-level environments. with 
 a little time and effort in getting used to the fact you are for all practical purposes coercing 
 a "puppet" into doing what you wish within about a half hour you will be scaling rooftops and picking 
 pockets with ease. fighting on the other hand takes a little longer for it to feel comfortable and 
 actually have confidence in killing multiple enemies instead of scampering up buildings to avoid 
 them. the actual gameplay in fighting enemies is ingenious because of the use of high and low profile 
 attacks and movements with just a click of the RT button. the fight mechanics are well thought out 
 and easily controllable after some time invested in actually "learning" how to fight in the garden 
 training area. the missions/assassinations are all triggered after doing some investigating in the 
 different areas and interacting with informants, citizens in need, and people who you intend to pickpocket 
 which can be a little trying on the patience at times but, well worth the effort. as any true assassin 
 stealth and blending in with the towns citizens is a must for a successful assassination and escape. all 
 in all this game has had my undivided attention from the first moment it was loaded into the xbox 
 360 and so far has very few cons. the only real con so far is the fact that it is easy to get lost 
 en route to your objective and the fact that when trying to escape you are sometimes launched from 
 the sides and tops of buildings when attempting to make a minor direction change which can lead 
 to landing right in the middle of groups of guards out to kill you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  OK this game has had brilliant publicity and kept in vision for ages now. Well it deserves all 
 the attention it is a bloody genious game.
  
  Gameplay
  When you read the instruction book they look complicated but it becomes second nature very easily. 
 The controls couldn't be more perfect for what they were doing.
  The free running and climbing is outstanding, It doesn't look false either he actually only climbs 
 up things that look like thier climbable.
  The fighting is briliant aswell nice and simple but not too easy.
  The gameplay overall is brilliant.
 
  
  Graphics
  the graphics on this game are outstanding. When you first stand on top of a view point and sync 
 it to your map takes oyur breathe away, it looks that good. Every character looks different and 
 stunning.
  The look of the environment is what really stands out though and the fact that UBISOFT were able 
 to make it look that gorgeous just shows how brilliant they actually are.
  
  Sound
  They make the sound brilliant aswell. When climbing a building really high you can hear the wind, 
 when running past someone in trouble you can hear them screaming, when climbing in plain view poeple 
 comment & when walking past a market stall you hear the vendor talk to everyone.
  Battle sounds are just as spectacual with sword sounds are realistic as they can be and the guards 
 reactions and taunts in the fight sound brilliant aswell.
  
  Value
  OK this game lasts quite a while (10hrs min) but it is just so stunning I consider it worthy of 
 a second time through, that way you can take kills differently, see things you missed the first 
 time through and just have a bloody good time.
  
  Tilt
  In my opinion this is the best game out this year.
  This game overtook such greats as Bioshock 
 & The Orange Box (I would say Halo but it's awful ,and you know it is)
  
  If you don't have this game in your collection by the end of 2007 then be ashamed cause you are 
 missing out on the best gaming experiance this year.
  
  P. S. I am glad this a trilogy because you just have to make a second game for something this good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcatclower
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Anyone that tells you this game is a waste of time needs to be smacked in the face. Granted the 
 games is quite short if you don't find the un-godly amount of flags and the game does get a little 
 repetitive once you get to the last mission, but the graphics are amazing! Whether you are climbing 
 up a building to sync with the environment and see the whole city, or even if you are just watching 
 a cut scene the graphics really pull you into the experience. There are more things to do rather 
 than just follow the main story line as well, there are 4 different towns and a huge area in which 
 the creators have hidden flags and sync points. Your get achievements for collecting the lot of 
 them. One feature that I thought was very neat was the ability to control the camera or change 
 the viewpoint during cut scenes making them really feel like you are Altair. Overall great game 
 just give it a shot and I can almost guarantee you will become addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keebthesquee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  first of all.... this game is revolutionary.
  i could leave this review with only that sentence occupying this tiny space but there is much to 
 be said. 
  
  You may have heard that this game is repetitive. It's true. It is. 
  But what game isn't? 
  The point of this game is to introduce you to the world of Assassins Creed. 
 
  Ubi soft is showing you what they can do. At least in my opinion they are. This game is intended 
 to be a trilogy. The introduction to this series was very well done. The plot and story was told 
 very very well.... i wish i could shake the hands of whomever created this story which involves 
  Such a complex story... so beautiful. 
  
  Anyways... the sword play is top notch. It may not be as acrobatic and intense as prince of persia 
 but Altair is no Prince of Persia. Timed button presses to activate a counter attack is fun... 
 and keeps it intense. Solo sword play is nice... but the Ai won't let you hit them unless you are 
 lucky. over all... when you have to face a mass of ten to fifteen men... things can get quite interesting. 
 
  the cinematic kills never get old as well.
  
  the best part of the game in my opinion is the climbing mechanics. YOU CAN CLIMB EVERYTHING. i'm 
 not lying. i mean it..... EVERYTHING. all that you can see... you can climb or interact with it 
 in some way. It's so fun. Especially when running away from the guards.... once you get a hold 
 of your surroundings... you will be hopping and running around the rooftops like a breeze. 
  
  the plot involves you killing nine men.
  it's up to you .... to choose how to approach them.. 
 .. and when to kill them. 
  you can go in silently to get the job done without dealing with anyone else... or cause a scene.... and 
 make your kill later. 
  it may get repetitive when the side quests are the same objectives.... but the informer missions 
 are always fun. Besides... the side quests usually link you to little cinematic sequences that unlock 
 more secrets to the story. it gets you thinking. 
  
  all in all... this is the most ambitious title to ever grace a system this year... and maybe even 
 the last. 
  Ubi soft... i my opinion is giving us a taste.... The next game will blow minds..... And the next 
 game will be such perfection... you will question your own existence.... and quite possibly commit 
 suicide. 
  
  don't say i didn't warn you. 
  
  don't eat the walrus.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeymoreHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Thankfully, I didn't get into all the hype that surrounded this game at an early stage, because 
 that seems to have ruined this fantastic experience for many players.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a great single player experience, no doubt about it. There are some minor issues 
 however. One point in the game is rather glichty, but only lasts about 15-20 minutes so it's forgivable. 
 The guards have a bit of limited intelligence, which didn't bother me that much. The biggest issue 
 comes when visiting the cities. The assassinations themselves are by far the funnies aspect in 
 the game because they all tie up towards the main plot. The side quests are fun too, the first 
 couple of times. After that, they become repetitive. I am quite stubborn so I did them all anyway, 
 but for some players it might be frustrating doing the exact same pickpocket or rescue civilian 
 over and over again.
  
  Other than these small issues, the game is fantastic. The story was great and full of several interesting 
 twists. The graphics are awesome and the game play is very well designed.
  
  I really recommend playing Assassin's Creed. You will probably only play it once because of limited 
 replay value but you will probarbly not mind since it's such a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pupadump
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  If you love plotting and killing historic leaders then this is the game for you (and me!) Not only 
 has this game probably the best graphics but it has got an outstanding main character named Altair. 
 Once you have seen this game all you can say about it is...
  
  I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love 
 it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love 
 it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love 
 it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love 
 it, I Love it, I Love it, I Love it and
  I LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow444466
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first started Assassins Creed, I was a little suprised about the beginning. I didn't know 
 that it really took place in the future. Anyway all my friends already knew this so they all laughed 
 at me for not knowing. I'm not saying that the beginning is bad, actually it makes you want to 
 play through the whole game. The game is really fun, and for me, I could spend all day just going 
 sround stealth assassinating templars and walking away like nothing happened, all day. The only 
 reason i could accomplish this is because I know how. They made the game very easy to figure out. 
 It consists of three buttons that control different things. Now i dont know what those three things 
 are, but i read it in another review and I'm trying to sound smart, so just bare with me. Now although 
 I cant tell you what those threee buttons are, I can tell you a lot about the gameplay itself. 
 For instance, say you want to get into a fortress but there are templars guarding all the main 
 entrances. Then what you would do is find a place where no one is and start to scale the wall of 
 the fortress. I know this doesn't sound simple, but common its just a video game. Anyway, after 
 you scale the wall, there are probably going to be archers watching the premises. With these guys 
 you have no chioice but to kill them. So you can either do a low profile assassination, a high 
 profile assassination, or just chuck a knife at em and hope they die. I pick the latter, but the 
 others may be more effective. After you take out the archers you go towards your target, or in 
 my case just into the fort to mess around. Then when you get to your target you can do the same 
 assassination choices as you had with the archers on the roofs. Overall this game is a MUST BUY 
 for all you fans of violence, a good storyline and great gameplay. So you may want to be writing 
 a long letter to Santa on why he needs to get you thid game, and put in a good word about me to 
 Santa. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the most highly awaited games of this year and it doesn't fall short of 
 the mark. When you have a game this hyped and this good you have to be nit picky to work out the 
 bugs. There are a lot of things in this game that I like. There are a lot that I don't. There are 
 new elements that have been created and will probably be used for years to come. There are also 
 old elements that I wish were in this game. But over all you will not be disapointed with this 
 beautiful, fun, deep game. So here we go:
  
  The graphics in this game are breath taking. The cities are flawless taking in the maximum amount 
 of detail possivle and pushing the 360 to it's limits. The animation is perfect, it doesn't feel 
 forced, choppy, or stiff, it just looks human. The light and shadowing are priceless. It's so clear 
 I'm surprised that you can't smell the air in the 4 cities that have been recreated and historically 
 acurate. Now here is one issue. Pretty much eveyone has the same face, same body, and same clothes. 
 There isn't much variation in the way the crowd, guards, fellow assassins or targets look. You 
 won't notice this at first, just as you play through it for the long hours that will ensue. Another 
 thing I didn't like was the interactive cut scenes. I just want a dynamic cut scene, not something 
 I have to arrange on my own. 
  
  The music is great in this game. It really sets the mood. The problem is that there isn't too much 
 so most of your hearing comes from the crowds reactions to your movements. Unfortunatly here is 
 another area where the game falls short. It seems that every one has the same voice in this game 
 accept the main characters. Also the dialog isn't that deep in most of the crowd reaction or guard 
 taunts. So once you've heard "Why is he doing that?" for the 1000th time for scaling a wall in 
 the middle of town you get kind of tired of it. 
  
  That's another thing that falls short in this game. The major part of the difficulty was the crowd. 
 The crowd does react to you, but it doesn't really change the way the game is played. So you don't 
 really need to find a secluded spot to spring up a building, you can do it on the street. Right 
 in front of the guards no less. 
  
  However where that aspect falls short, the combat aspect picks it up. I would have to say that 
 I have been studying Martial Arts for a good 14 years now and this is the closest I've ever seen 
 a game get to true self defense. Most of your actions are one with one button, but the timing and 
 the what button is pressed has to be percise in order to pull off the cooler moves. That's not 
 to say that you can't button mash your way through it, Assassin's Creed give you the option of 
 going as deep with the combat as you want. As you progress you can counter, break grabs, dodge 
 and so forth. You get better weapons, more life bars, and more abilities with the more objectives 
 you complete. A nice little reward system. Another thing to commend the game for is the acrobatics. 
 You feel like Spiderman as you leap, flip, spring, and high dive through the cities. It's really 
 easy to pick up and play but hard to master. 
  
  Hiding from the guards can be problematic. I like that you can "blend" in with the crowd, duck 
 into a pile of hay, or get the aid of some fellow city dwellers to hinder the guards progress. 
 But there is none of the good old fashioned hiding in the shadows. It's always day and not night 
 time, which could deepen the stealth even more. Moving slower doesn't always help avoid the guards 
 and so sneaking is kind of out. You can just run and jump on pretty much anyone you want. 
  
  A problem the game has is with pacing. While the assassinations themselves are very fun, action 
 packed and fast paced. The objectives to get to the assassinations repeat themselves and can get 
 old after a while. There are only so many buildings you can climb to find your informant that will 
 make you gather flags in 3 minuets or less that you can take. You only need 3 objectives to attempt 
 the assassination, but there are 6 if you want more points so to speak. 
  
  However while the game can be boring and sometimes down right frustrating at times you are rewarded 
 with a very interesting story that spans time. I don't want to spoil it for the people who haven't 
 played it yet but the game takes place in the future and in the past. Basically the main character 
 comes from a long line of assassins and the protagonist in the 13th century is a ancestor of the 
 protagonist in the 21st century. The 21 century guy is abducted and put into a machine to relive 
 his past lives through his DNA so the abductors can find a hidden treasure. Pretty wierd right? 
 Well it makes for a darn good story, so it pushes you on. 
  
  Other then a higher difficulty level and going after the obejectives you missed there isn't much 
 after you beat Assassin's Creed unless you become addicted to the characters. All in all Assassin's 
 Creed brings some new stuff to the table. I like it's authenticity and it's ingenuity. But it leaves 
 some great gaming qualities on the side. It's a great pick up and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellyjamsixpack
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is by far one of my favorite games. I love that you can climb on any building in 
 the game and easily blend in with the crowd. One of my favorite parts of the game is being able 
 to stealth assassinate someone and then just walk away like it never happened. Or if you don't 
 want to get to close you can just simply throw a throwing knife from afar. This game is very fun 
 but it can also get annoying at times. On the missions you have to go around the city and look 
 for 3 people to give you information. Which can get annoying after the 6th time. Then you have 
 to do something for them like assassinate 5 people in 4 minutes or pickpocket somebody or beat 
 somebody up. It can get old after a while. Also when you are trying to run away from guards they 
 throw rocks at you when you try to climb up a building which can be annoying when your at the very 
 top. Besides that its a really fun game and the time it takes to beat it is very reasonable. This 
 is one of my favorite games and i can't wait until the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpclEd-HelpDesk
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt the most amazing graphics to hit the 360 to date. The scenery is breathtaking. 
 The controls are excellent, and the atmosphere captures the time era with accuracy. 
  
  The bad part is that every mission is pretty much the same. Worth the money for the graphics alone, 
 but you'll find that you've pretty much played the entire game after finishing the memory block 
 one. Each mission and side missions are pretty much identical from the last. 
  
  This game raises the bar as far as creating a beautiful world with amazing detail. However, the 
 gameplay leaves a lot to be desired in terms of variety. If the missions differed, I would give 
 this game a higher score. It would also have been nice if they made stealth more of a requirement, 
 like in the Hitman series. Yes, it helps to go unnoticed, but you can make it through the game 
 running around like a madman, pummeling guards at will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aoidoragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Well here we are finally Ubisofts new assassin game is released and we are VERY happy.
  
  Graphics 10
  These graphics are freakin awesome, they are so life-like.
  amazing textures and 
 superb lighting effects make the game really pop out at you and can immerse you in the world 10-fold.
 
  
  Audio 9
  The music is great it fits the mood and helps get you into it.
  
  Controls 9.5
  Well controls in any game can be a make-or-break part of the game and in assassin's 
 creed they are great. Although they can take a bit getting used to once they are learned they feel 
 great.
  
  Story 10
  The story in assassin's creed fits the timeline well its something you would expect to happen, 
 however the past/future part of the story can be a little hard to pick up on and the future part 
 is a little farfetched to say the least.
  
  Total score 9.5 
  An awesome game not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful looking game. With a concept that has never really ever been seen 
 in a video game before. Even though the game has a bunch of high highs, it also has some low lows. 
 Let me explain...
  
  First of all, you cannot help but love the open world gameplay. I am sick and tired of all of these 
 games that have places that you really want to get to but can't their is an invisible wall in your 
 way. Also, the single player story is kick ass, not as good as the one that we saw in Mass Effect, 
 but as close as we are going to get.
  
  However, the major downfall of this game is that it is repetitive, espcially in the side missions. 
 Also the controls are so ornery that they made me want to sneak up behind someone and pull a dagger 
 out of my hand and let them have a little something.
  
  With all downfalls aside, their are not to many games like this and it should be played by anyone 
 and everyone (if your over 17 of course) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omuntu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  well I've been wanting to get this game for a while now but now jesus am glad i got it it's pretty 
 good easy to understand and pretty cool cut scenes especially when they are in a conversation, 
 the story line is easy to understand from the start and i think thats what makes the game stand 
 out, and they city are pretty big so theres always something to do trust me you won't get bored.
 
  
  it also has you making decisions, you can just choose to be stealth and assassinate your target 
 or if you like you can just go for the big old slash about with the lad..... the fight scene are 
 pretty good special when you do kills i. e your special blade or when your fighting with your long 
 sword and you do a pretty amazing move, jesus the joy that you feel.. lol
  
  overall i say this is one of the best game out now for the xbox 360 and i recommend this game to 
 all of you and i think anyone can play it... so have fin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Like everyone has written, the game itself is fun and entertaining to play. Sure, the investigation 
 process (gathering info before making kills) gets repetitive (some informer missions being the 
 ones with a little variety to them, the others are pretty much over of the same) .
  
  But there is no feeling like killing those templars! The only thing I find sad is when you're over, 
 you can jack back in to collect the missing flags, hunt the remaining templars, but beside giving 
 you achievements and a "Way to go! You collected them all", the whole lot of them is a little useless 
 (at least, in GTAs, collecting those damn lil' packages unlocked something, whereas beside the 
 achievement, the flags are just good for saving your game) .
  
  Still, it's a good game to play, and to show-off to friends. The fighting system, when you understand 
 it, gets a little easy (okay, i'm fighting against 20 guards, and win, without breaking too much 
 of a sweat) . Let's just hope the second one will correct the flaws from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmskinner1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great and exciting game, rich full environments, and game play that is unique 
 and very fun and exciting to play. This is a genuinely original idea that is kind of based on Prince 
 of Persia, or Tomb Raider that is set in Ancient Bible like times of Damascus and Jerusalem. This 
 is a great game that anyone can find something to enjoy about this game. I am very pleased to have 
 purchased this gam, and I really enjoy it to the fullest extent. This game is like a Grand Theft 
 Auto of Ancient Times, and is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  wow. ok creed is about many things; much of it is innovative in nature. chief amongst the games' 
 accomplishments is the a. i. now everybody critiques a. i. so often that the term itself has lost 
 meaning which is integral to getting how good creed's is.
  
  so it means artificial intelligence. and ubisoft has created exactly that. the crowd dynamic alone 
 (tho mundane sounding) is amazing in the way it integrates into your every move. the enemy a. i. 
 is so intuitive, it'll make you look at real life strangers in a different way, wondering if they 
 know what ur up to... not that ur up to sumthin. heheh.
  
  alright. my second favorite point of the game has to be the control. of course it's smooth as silk 
 and deep and complicated (which it needs to be for any gamer worth his salt) . however, every game 
 of this ilk has always had the same problem.
  
  here's the deal: there was once an accepted axiom in game design. you can make a stealth game, 
 OR you can make an action game. there is a general formula that works exceptionally well for each. 
 but when you try to do both in the same game, invariably one or the other engine suffers in depth 
 as a result of console and hardware processing limitations (or bad designers who get lazy) . heheh.
 
  
  bottom line is very few games have ever managed to integrate both schools well. 
  
  creed does. with the simple press of a trigger, you swap to completely separate control schemes 
 for action or stealth. this isn't the gist of the whole game but is a beautiful little window into 
 how well ubisoft designed integration for everything within the game. it is stellar, just stellar. 
 well done ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_Man_III
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to this game for months before it came out and I was hoping it was going 
 to be as good as, if not better than the best game on the 360 to date, which is Oblivion as both 
 games have their similarities.
  
  And yes for the first few hours this game is great, you think that the climbing system is cool, 
 and it is as everything in the world is interactive and can be climbed upon. You also love the 
 fighting system as its like nothing you've ever seen before. And you also love the fantastic graphics 
 and beautifully scaled cities and towns, and to be fair they are, for a game this big to have such 
 fantastic graphics, a huge world to roam in and still have a great frame rate is very impressive 
 indeed.
  
  All sounds great doesnt it? Well unfortunately it isnt. Yes the climbing system is cool, but climbing 
 up onto those ridiculous view points is not, I mean what really is the point in climbing up somewhere 
 really high just to 'synchronise' your map, a complete waste of time there if you ask me.
  
  And the fighting system could not be any more repetitve. All you ever do is attack guards with 
 your sword, you may occasionally want to assassinate someone, or use throwing knives, but for a 
 game thats mainly about stealth and called 'ASSASSIN'S Creed' its awfully easy to make yourself 
 seen and just go charging into dozens of guards without any real consequence.
  
  The next thing is the ridiculous stupidity of the AI. You can quite easily assassinate a guard 
 right infront of one of their mates and he will not notice a thing, but if you accindentally bump 
 into a guard then you may well be pounced upon by dozens more for no real reason other than that 
 you bumped into him.
  
  Another thing that really bugged me about this game is if they have given us a massive world to 
 explore why do I find that guards outside of the cities and towns will chase me for no good reason 
 whatsoever. The promise of this game was to allow us to roam freely, but all that ever seems to 
 happen is that i'll be given a mission and then find myself running for my life just to get to 
 the next city. I mean really, what is the point in that? Not only that practically every 'free' 
 mission is exactly the same. 'Save the citizen,' Eavesdropping and Interrogation are all common 
 themes and are fun until they start becoming repetitive, which is very quickly as there is just 
 no variety whatsoever.
  
  Then you have the ridiculous storyline as well, why couldnt it just have been an Assassin in the 
 whatever century this is set in and base the story around that. But oh no they had to try and get 
 clever and have an awful storyline that makes no sense, by where you are in the future and one 
 of your ancestor's was an Assassin, thats the main foundation of the this game and to be honest 
 half the time I dont even bother listening to the story as it just isnt interesting at all.
  
  So to sum up I would say that if you really wanted this game then rent it first, and if you 
 still love after renting it then go ahead and buy it, but if like me you found it boring and repetitve 
 after a while then save your heard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlos215
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is an amazing game that will keep you entertained for days. When you are playing 
 the game you get so involved with the story you dont realise that you have already got 600 gamer 
 points.
  
  The game has an interesting combat system, there are also cool moves that you preform when you 
 kill someone.
  
  I loved the game's twist at the end and all of the interesting marks all over the walls, i just 
 can't wait untill assassins creed 2 comes out.
  
  The only thing that got repetitive, was having to return to Masyaf after every assassination and 
 then having to ride your horse all the way back to Jerusalem or where ever the next assassination 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_the_lee
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  this game will entertain you for a week. you can't play through it again without losing your previous 
 save. this means you have to do the tutorial again. The story line is weak. it does have cool climbing 
 and looks good but it is too easy.
  I ahev played the game and discovered that you only play it once. The most annoying thing is that 
 if you liked a certain part of the story line you won't be able to do it again unless you watch 
 the credits everytime or lose your save game. you can't skip the cinematics so if you mess up a 
 mission you will ahve to rewatch the whole thign again. this game is great until you complete it 
 then it becomes awful and you realise that the money you spent was wasted. it has no difficulty 
 settigns so once you get good there is no challenge. 
  Other than that its great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_Crazy_Idiot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Ever since it was announced at E3 in 2006, I have wanted this game. It looked fantastic and I thought 
 it was cool to take place in medieval times.
  
  Now that the game is out and in my possession...
  
  I love making the "Leap of Faith". it takes 
 my breath away every time I perform one and land in the hay. It's almost like a roller coaster 
 ride.
  
  I also like how the gameplay can be varied. You can maintain a low profile for most of the game. 
 Or you can go all out and make yourself be seen when carrying out your missions. I tend to move 
 in on a group slow, and not leave until I either dispatch all the guards or end up dying while 
 trying. Even on a horse the gameplay varies.
  
  I definitely loved the twist in the game. Definitely unexpected, but it does shed more light on 
 the back story. Sorry, no spoilers here regarding the twist.
  
  Graphically, it's awesome. Vivid, bright whites and light blues during the cut scenes. The look 
 of 12th century Israel looks right out of the history books. Amazing detail in the characters.
 
  
  The music is fantastic as well. Fits the period and location.
  
  Definitely a Game of the Year candidate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badhmash
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  This game would have been great if it wasnt so repetitive. Need more variety, more weapons better 
 A. I and in-depth combat! Should have been Prince of Persia mixed with Ninja Gaiden! 
  
  Altair is a solid character with alot of potential. The combat although fun is the same few moves 
 over and overe again, you wait to get attacked then you counter attack and then you wait again 
 and counter attack again! 
  
  Another gripe is that Altair cannot do much apart from run around and climb buildings! Why cant 
 he climb trees, or rock faces???? Maybe this wasnt thought of or maybe someone forgot!
  
  Graphically the game is amazing, with slight frame rate issues on the x360 version, although this 
 rarely gets in the way. The detail of Altair is great and the cities look immense. There is some 
 slight clipping noticeable but as with the frame rate issue this is not a major problem.
  
  If it werent for these slight annoyances Assassins Creed would have been great. All it does now 
 is wet your appetite for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angels_Airwaves
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of the most talked about and hyped games of the year. If you asked your 
 friends what game they were looking forward to the most (aside from Halo 3) , Assassin's Creed would 
 be #1 on that list. The game in one word is great. The gameplay, fight mechanics, jumping from 
 roof top to roof top is all just really smooth, but Ubisoft left a lot out in this first game in 
 a planned out series/franchise. The repeptition this game is very high, after the first hour or 
 so you'll basically see everything that you're going to see for the next 10-15 hours. The one thing 
 that never gets old in this game though are the brutal attacks when you're engaged in a straight 
 up sword fight. Seeing Altair take a sword to someones neck or cut the back of their legs then 
 finish them off with a blow to the stomach has never looked so satisfying and the reason they look 
 so good is because Ubisoft really produced something here with really really good graphics. You 
 can grab onto anything that sticks out from the walls for ex. a jewel, stone, ledge, window frame, 
 wood, cracks and the list goes on. The character animations are very smooth and fluid. Altaire 
 has some of the best animations that i have seen in a game. His fingers move, you see his teeth 
 grit as he stabs someone, every piece of clothing that he wears flows with the wind and all the 
 details stand out very well. Besides a few framerate hitches, the game will run smoothly throughout 
 your entire experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudknot23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Ok so ive played a lot of games that have long drawn out story lines. Some of them i like and some 
 of them i think should be burned!! But this game is definitely one of the best games i have ever 
 played BAR NONE!!! 
  
  The story is awesome and takes place not only in the past but also has a HUGE story that takes 
 place in the future. I think that the way that they were able to make both of the stories fit so 
 well together is what makes this game so amazing. The "leave you hanging" ending really sucks because 
 after the final cut scene i wanted to stab someone because the freakin game was over!!! 
  
  The gameplay is also extremely original! When you are in the Animus playing in the past you have 
 an entire free roaming environment that you are able to interact with pretty much everything from 
 merchant stands to people in crowds so on and so forth. Not only can you interact in a HUGE free 
 roaming environment but you can scale any building and jump from rooftop to rooftop as your little 
 heart pleases!! The AI is very impressive, so dont go GTA and start killing everyone, unless of 
 course you wanna get into a long drawn out battle with guards (which gets really addicting) . The 
 sword fights although a little bit repetitive are very entertaining because no matter how many 
 times you see Altair slice some dudes throat or shove a sword in his stomach and pull up you still 
 feel like an UBER BAD ASS!!
  
  The only things that i think could be improved are again the repetitive battle sequences and you 
 dont really need to use a lot of the abilities that you are givin but they still can be used of 
 course.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone and EVERYONE!!! VERY ADDICTING!! I will be first in line 
 to pick up the sequel because i still cant get over the fact that the game ended before it began 
 but ill get over it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shas02
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best game, i played in awhile. Graphics are amazing, sound is good, 
 game play is great. Its takes awhile to get use to the combat tactics but once you got the timing 
 down, its really a blasty blast. I was hoping to have more weapons to choose from, you get your 
 standard sword, assassin blade, counter blade and throwing knives. I did run into one glitch, when 
 riding on a horse, i tried to dismount and all the character did was stand on top of the horse, 
 at first i thought it was part of the game. Couple of minutes past and i had to restart the game. 
 The replay value is high, you can do side missions and look for all the hidden flags through out 
 each cities. I hope the second installment of this will live up to the original, as you can tell 
 by the ending, there will be more assassinations to come. Its worth the moola if you got it or 
 try renting first, but you will not be disappointed by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos12290
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first started to play the game, I was slightly confused by, seeing a laboratory and computers. 
 Wasn't this game supposed to be set in the Crusades? Getting into the story though, the strange 
 genetic memory side of things gives the game an odd, but unique and innovative twist.
  
  The plot itself is excellent, having a good flowing storyline, with just the right amount of mystery 
 in the air. The ending did leave me saying, "Do what?" but after playing through it a few times, 
 it starts to make a little more sense.
  
  The controls and gameplay are very well done, using a very unique control style that makes Altair 
 seem incredibly lifelike. The combat system is decent, but some more kill scenes could have been 
 added to make things seem less repetitive.
  
  The graphics completely blew me away. The amount of detail that was put into every tiny step made 
 the game world seem as alive and real as the one outside my window. There were a few glitches, 
 as I got stuck in several trees and couldn't get out, and Altair didn't always seem to know what 
 he was doing, as he would randomly jump off of a 30 story steeple to his death.
  
  The AI has some serious catching up to do with the rest of the game. The guards in the game are 
 almost pointless, as you can easily outrun or kill them. They only attack you one at a time, so 
 you can take on as many as you want to, as long as you have the patience to sit and counter-attack 
 all day.
  
  All in all the game is very well done, but the AI was a major let down, and the glitches could 
 have easily been fixed with some more testing. IMO it was a great game with very high replay value, 
 seeing as how there are so many different ways that things could be done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dondada469
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The game had so much potential that it's sad to say how boring it ended up being. The only reason 
 I scored the game as high as I did is for its amazing visuals, and the original concept. If someone 
 else took over the concept it could end up being a sick and fun game instead of just something 
 to show off the HDTV and the power of the xbox 360 with. 
  ... these here are filler words here just to meet the 100 word minimum for reader reviews (what 
 a stupid policy for reviews, this needs to be changed immediately)
  So uhhh.... yea, try out Assassin's Creed if you want to see one of the most beautiful games ever 
 even though the game itself is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) There is a large open world for you to explore and you can do almost anything you want to do 
 in it.
  
  2) You choose how you want to assassinate the person whether you want to rush them and try to get 
 through the guards or if you want to do it with out being noticed then you can do it like an assassin 
 and sneak through to get the kill.
  
  3) Graphics are amazing and are highly detailed.
  
  4) Controls work very well and arent as confusing as you would think the would be.
  
  Cons:
 
  1) There are a few glitches but it is nothing big.
  
  2) The story is kind of confusing.
  
  3) The fighting can get repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pope_3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Although Assassin's Creed is flashy and mind boggling beautiful game by about the 5 assassination 
 you just get board of doing the same process over and over again. Another problem is ounce you 
 learn "counter attacks" the game just gets far too easy in the sense that you will be able to take 
 on far too many guards at one time. Another major flaw to the game is the fact that the guard AI 
 can almost be laughable at times. But if you look past its flaws you will uncover a truly wholesome 
 and worthwhile adventure. And is definately worth checking out if your looking to experiance the 
 true beauty of the holy land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madestgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  with my first stealthy kill, i was hooked into the game. the game gives u the oppurtunity to assassinate 
 random people or to go onto a assassin spree and kill all the guards u want. the gameplay can get 
 repetitive if u do it the same way every time, u dont have to go right for the kill, u can always 
 play around on the roof tops to assassinate ur target. 
  
  if spotted before or after an assassination u will either have to fight or run and take cover. 
 the fight mechanics are great because of the grab, step, and counter attack. if u run u can use 
 random people as baracades to slow down the guards. to me its an awesome game. the graphics blew 
 me away, they were just that good and it was crisp and clear all the way through. the storyline 
 is great but can get boring because they are really long and make you dose off unless someone is 
 getting beat down.
  
  this is a great game and i would say rent it if u arent a big stelth person and buy it if u always 
 wanted to see how the assassian works. i would give it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sellardwellar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I liked everything about the game except a few small details here they are...
  
  the story of time traveling thru gene therapy was kinds out there,,, i like scifi but cmon it just 
 seemed like another screen toload, im wondering if they just took that feature out how the game 
 wouid be..
  
  next was the fighting on your horse... how the side slashes really get old in the first 5 minutes... 
 not much variety in horse back fighting : (
  
  then there was the weapons.. i know the main characters got 4 different ways to take down an enemy 
 but he should also be able to pick up other objects like stones and sticks maybe even spears,,, 
 and then u could ride a horse with a spear in ur hand and toss it at enemys i dont know mix up 
 the action a little... give us more choices i mean the guy is a assasin,.. 
  
  over all game was kick A&% i would recomend it as a must buy to add to ur collection,... 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJoe04
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  when I first heard about this game I figured it'd be just like the PoP series, which isn't a bad 
 thing cause PoP is one of my favorite series, but I've been there, done that. But when I heard 
 it was going to be more of a sandbox game is when I started looking into it.
  
  I picked it up yesterday and am very pleased with the game overall. In a world where companies 
 mass produce the same type of game over and over again, picking this game up was a huge breath 
 of fresh air. Every single part of the game feels like it was created JUST for this game.
  
  The beginning of the game felt really clunky, trying to get the controls down and not having 
 very many abilities and whatnot. but once you actually start the game (get all your weapons, in 
 my mind) that's when I started having tons of fun. I have never had so much picking on guard. the 
 combat is different cause even though everything is pretty much done with one button, its all about 
 timing that determines your attacks.
  
  the only thing that kept this game from being perfect is the missions. as everyone says, they are 
 repetitive. even though its a huge bummer, I still don't really mind it too much cause just like 
 in all sandbox games I play, missions have always taken a backseat to exploring and picking fights.
 
  
  I read someone's review that said it was like Crackdown in the Middle Ages, and that is pretty 
 accurate, only add it an actually good combat system , realistic feeling, and a well thought out 
 story (not necessarily good, I don't know, haven't gotten too far into it yet) and you got assassin's 
 creed.
  
  I say kudos to ubisoft for a job well done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiAPiston
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  When I played Assassin's Creed I kept wondering why there is no other game like it. I have never 
 seen a game that takes place in the shoes in an assassin. The abillity to sneak up and kill a target 
 has been done before, but never with the steel of a blade. A lot of other stealth games, like Splinter 
 Cell, take place in either a modern environment or in the future (near and far.) Assassin's Creed 
 is the exact opposite.
  
  Anyway I find the ability to kill someone in a crowd with out any one noticing extremely entertaining 
 (while extremely unrealistic.) One of my favorite things to do is to kill one of those freaking 
 annoying preachers and watch the crowd casually wonder away.
  
  The Game also was a magnificent storyline, witch I will reveal to prevent spoilers. But, I must 
 say that I did like killing the guy at the end of the game. He was a d***.
  
  The few negatives about the game are that the story is not that long and the game can get a tad 
 bit repetitive at times. Especially when the guards keep coming out of freaking no where and you 
 just have to fight like 10 battles in a row. Don't get me wrong, the game is not bad at all. 
 
  
  Overall I would say that renting that game first might actually be a good idea ( it really always 
 is) since not people like the game. But hey, they're probably too stupid to figure it out anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhedraki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  After reading some of the poorer reviews for this game, I was convinced this game wasn't going 
 to be good at all, especially considering I already had a bias against it due to the repetitive 
 gameplay shown in live demos. After playing through a good chunk of it over the past few days, 
 I can assure anyone looking for a good time that they wont be disappointed. It's a great game to 
 play over a few days or weeks. I play for an hour, for example, and I decide that it's time to 
 put the controller down (whether its due to getting slightly bored, or wanting to do something 
 else with my life) . But every time i stop playing, there comes a point where I start to crave it. 
 The story is interesting and every assassination reveals another piece to the puzzle. The voice 
 acting is nice and the fighting mechanics are good enough to keep me playing. I like the way the 
 game opens up with access to all of your abilities, but then takes it away from you, slowly giving 
 it back as you complete more and more assassinations. The reason why this works so well is because 
 once you lose it, you miss it dearly, making it all the more satisfying once you get them back, 
 giving you a sense of accomplishment and hope that gameplay will only get better now that you have 
 your old moves back for greater dominance in combat. What i'm saying might not make too much sense 
 to you know, but just play the game and you'll better understand what im talking about. The game 
 isn't perfect, but considering the entertainment its given to me so far, its definitely worthy 
 of a 9.5. Not to mention the graphics are breathtaking, definitely up there with call of duty 4 
 and gears of war. Although, cleaning it up a bit wouldve been nice (a lot of pop in) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Breathtaking graphics, engaging story, lots of freedom, intense fighting/ sneaking/ hiding, 
 fascinating places to travel to, innovative.
  
  The Bad: So good it makes most of your other games really look bad...
  
  This game is the first 
 ever I would give a perfect "10" to, and obviously my vote for Game of the Year. Yet again, Ubisoft 
 has exceeded expectations. This is unlike any game I've ever played. 
  
  You have a lot of freedom to play through any way you want. You can be stealthy, agressive, or 
 just wander around a lot exploring this unique and fascinating world. Altair's climbing ability 
 is a thrill, zipping up the sides of buildings like nobody's business, getting a dizzying and breathtaking 
 view at the top, and launching yourself down to the ground with his Eagle ability never gets old. 
 The buildings in this game look like real buildings that you just happen to be able to climb, not 
 like buildings designed for "platforming" that don't look realistic.
  
  The scenery in this game made my jaw sink to the floor. I have never witnessed a more graphically 
 intricate, detailed, and beautiful game. I am in pure bliss partaking in all of this eye candy. 
 Sometimes I think I could just stare at the screen and don't even want to move on. I feel like 
 I am REALLY there.
  
  The story is different and compelling. What happens to Altair is interesting, and you care about 
 what happens to him and want to keep going to find out what happens to him next. He is not "just 
 another thug" or "just another soldier". Who he is and what he does is not black or white, it's 
 a gray area. Just like most real-life people's lives.
  
  The crowds are not just some static cluster of people on the screen. This really is a living, breathing 
 world to immerse yourself in. I really like the way you can blend in with the crowd if you need 
 to hide, instead of the typical methods found in other games. Eavesdropping is also fun.
  
  The controls are spot-on, smooth, and flawless. The frusteration factor on controls, whether you 
 are climbing, moving around, or fighting, is NONE. 
  Altair is a total bada** in combat. Sneaky or agressive, he makes short work of his foes. It is 
 very satisfying.
  
  The voice acting is convincing and really enhances the realism of the game, and the ambient sounds 
 further your immersion in really feeling like you are in these exotic locations.
  
  This game is nothing short of spectacular, and no Xbox360 collection should be without it. If you 
 could only play one game this year, this should be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowhunter13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review: Nothing is true, and everything is permited."
  
  
  
  The game revolves around these words, literally, never trust that anything anyone tells you is 
 true, and you can go anywhere and that is the highlight of the game. I think you know the story 
 by now. So i should asure you that I have played all the way through the game, so I will assure 
 I have few problems with the game. 
  
  
  
  The Pros:
  The game is breathtakingly beutiful, this is one of the few games that you once you get to one 
 of the hight points you just want look at things. and everything you see you can go.
  
  The action is intense, the game makes you pay attention in combat, it is not a hack-slash. You 
 pretty much need to have a defensinsive stance otherwize you will be slaughtered, so the counter-kills, 
 are the most adrenanlin filed awsomeness the word has seen, there is the one counter-kill with 
 the short sword, wear you stab someone in the head, and it will make a noise that will make you 
 dry heave. 
  
  The story, not spilling the twist, is engaging, and you want finish the story, but also you don't 
 want it to end.
  
  The guard AI however not the brighest in combat, is very intelligent when it comes to detection, 
 they will contsaintly peruse the crowd and will remember you, if you do anything to show that shows 
 your an assassins towards the end of the game, they'll be on your ass so fast it seems unfair. 
 
  
  
  Free running is an something you need to experience to believe, it's so fluid, and sometimes puzzling.
 
  
  
  Your a badass Assassin, sweet!!!
  
  
  
  Cons:
  
  You need patients, look, I am an FPS player, and when it comes to waiting i'm not big on it, and 
 walking in the crowd is to slow for me, so I always end up free running, which i need to learn 
 how to do, and towards the end of the game the roof tops are crawling with archers and it tends 
 to eat up my trowing knives.
  
  Too easy and too short, only 15- 20 hours
  
  They took out the crossbow, thats kinda dumb.
  
  occationally durning counter-kills, you'll 
 clip through buildings.
  
  Ends with a cliff hanger.
  
  
  Summery:
  When it comes to Assassins Creed, the Pros out weight the Cons by like  
 tons. BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevmo1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Was it worth the wait? I say yes, some say the ending did not explain anything, I say that it left 
 it open for Assasin's Creed 2. This game is one of the best released this year in my book, not 
 only did it look great but it was different from any game that has been released to date. I don't 
 think that I would of changed anything about this one. Definately worth picking up and making it 
 a permanent part of your collection. The fighting style is so satisfying and you could spend most 
 of the game picking fights with the largest group of guards you can find, as I did, just to watch 
 how amazing altair looks in those counter moves. Now to wait for part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: js0823
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Storyline - 8
  
  As gamespot mentioned, the storyline becomes quite confusing as the game goes on, especially at 
 the end. It was also quite surprising as the game turned out to be a sci-fi rather than a plain 
 historical game set in historical time. Nevertheless, the story turns out to be quite interesting 
 if you decide to look it up online for more details and summary of the story.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  Narratives were great. They chose right voices for each characters. Sword clashing 
 to each other sounded excellent. One thing that kept bugging me were the citizen's voices. They 
 would say the same thing everytime. Saving citizen becomes to feel repetitive because they would 
 randomly choose 1 out of 3~4 pre-recorded voices. Everytime you climb up the building in front 
 of people, people would repeat same thing. Other than that, the actual story telling and musics 
 were all great.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  
  The sword fights are plain fun, for the most part. It definitely outlines this game. The killing 
 experience in this game is incredible with great visuals to make you feel it... except after 5 hours 
 of playing, it tends to get repetitive as well. However, if you love sword fighting, you may find 
 it more of a fun than being repetitive. It's great.
  
  Missions, however, becomes incredibly repetitive. Unless you are into visualizing yourself as an 
 assassin and try to make use of the clue each mission gives you for the upcoming assassination, 
 you are going to repeat all missions until towards the end. If you are planning on dominating the 
 game 100%, you are in for a long hull of repetitive eavesdropping, pickpocketing, saving citizens, 
 climbing up towers, and interrogating. They all sounds fun, but you will soon realize it's all 
 the same, except the narratives.
  
  One thing that really kept bugging me is although the city itself is very huge and lively, the 
 fact that there are no interaction among people who walk the street brought down the whole interactive 
 meaning. So what if there's a merchant that's selling goods to other AI citizens if you can't talk 
 to them? There are loads of buildings but what's the point if you can't actually open its doors 
 and see what's inside? Although I understand doing this would cost another million and probably 
 another year for this game to come out, it still gave me the feeling that the city is just a picture 
 for you to jump around, nothing more.
  
  Graphics - 10
  
  Never seen graphics anything like this game. It's incredible. You can see it just by looking at 
 the screenshots, no need to say more.
  
  Conclusion
  
  It's a very fun game. It will take you around 10 hours~30 hours depending on how you want to play 
 the game (anyone completed all the flags in the game yet? It's incredibly tiring :D ) . As for me 
 I've spent around 20 hours on this game so far, mostly just enjoying dominating the city by killing 
 every guards I see. Next time hopefully we'll see more than just killing guards and following the 
 storyline. It would be much better if city was more interactive with you. Hopefully we'll see those 
 in Assassin's Creed 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qwickkiller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft is one of my favorite gaming companys but for Assassins Creed it made me wonder why they 
 made this.
  
  Story: The story was solid and true but after awhile it started to get dull when youd beat 
 acouple missions and no plot shockers would come up. But the story ends a big clifhanger like Halo 
 and Half-Life making you think; "wth is going on" "wtf thats it". 
  
  Gameplay: At first youd think climbing buildings was fun... its not. Once you get all upgrades 
 you still cant jump on ledges that arnt grabable this makes it next to impossable to run 
 from enemys. Also when you get to a new city you find yourself climbing the same view points over 
 and over so that gets dull real quick
  
  No Online: Even if there was online what kind of gameplay modes would there be; Hunted or sword 
 fighting like come on. Jade said they would put online in the second one... unless the gameplay 
 looks good then ill probably pick it up 
  
  
  Pros: good story, intence action, awesome voice overs, good fun
  
  Cons: decent gameplay, citys 
 are pretty the same, to easy to beat 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  After reviewing items for a few years on other websites, I've come to the conclusion that a helpful 
 review should not simply express whether the reviewer likes or dislikes a product. The problem 
 with reviews on other sites, is that the vast majority are written by people who have decided that 
 a product is the best thing in the world or by other people who think it's the worst. This results 
 in tons of reviews with ratings at each extreme of the range, all of which are completely useless 
 to the potential buyer because they don't aspire to any level of impartiality or critical thought.
 
  
  Before I get to the review I should point out that I have not yet finished the game, only about 
 85% of it, but the review is by no means based on first impressions. 
  
  Setting and Plot 
  Assassin's Creed is a stealth-based sandbox-style game along the lines of 
 the Thief series of games. It is set in the Holy Land of the 12th Century - an inspired and original 
 setting. In the vast majority of the game the player plays an assassin battling the forces of evil 
 at a time when cities are ruled by corrupt governors due to the absence of popular leadership during 
 the Third Crusade. There is another part of the game that I will let people find out for themselves, 
 although I will say that the game's hyped 'surprise' wasn't all that surprising, at least not to 
 me. This was no KotOR "Oh my God, I'm Darth Revan!" revelation - not even close. So those who like 
 plot surprises, don't get your hopes up - I think the game's 'mystery surprise' issue was probably 
 more a marketing ploy that an intended plot twist. The plot and the character arc are both fairly 
 simple and pretty much 'par for the course' as far as video games go, although I felt the developers 
 did a good job of making the 'evil' characters fairly believable and not stereotypical. 
  
  In the game you're free to do missions in any order you like on the way to completing an overall 
 linear storyline. Not all the missions are stealth-based, but stealth plays a major role, and even 
 though the game has only one difficulty level the game was neither too hard or too simple. I had 
 a few fights that I had to do over, but not so much that I felt like throwing my game disc in the 
 trash, as happened with 007 Rogue Agent, nor did I breeze through every level without difficulty, 
 so I feel the developers did a fantastic job balancing the skill level of the game. But those who 
 play 24/7 might find this game a little on the easy side. 
  
  Gameplay 
  Generally speaking, the game is split up into three levels. Each level of the game is completed 
 by doing one assassination mission in each of the game's three major cities. Each assassination 
 mission requires a certain number of investigations to be completed before it can be attempted. 
 The investigations can be eavesdropping missions or pickpocket (easy) , missions where you have 
 to rough up a NPC to get information from him (medium difficulty) , or missions where you have to 
 take over a lesser assassin's kill mission and do it within a time limit (hard) , it was on one 
 of these missions that I had to take the disc out of the system for fear of breaking a controller 
 in extreme anger. At this time I have completely finished one of the cities in the game, and have 
 almost finished a second
  
  The game has been criticised for being repetitive and it is, but not overbearingly so. There are 
 a small number of 'things to do' in the game (assassinate, pickpocket, eavesdrop, beat-up, timed 
 assassination, saving citizens from bullying NPCs) but I found that these activities take place 
 in so many different areas and with so many different influences that I really didn't notice the 
 repetitiveness all that much. 
  
  The game does require the player to use a bit of strategy before every major assassination. Before 
 completing your assassination it's always best to save citizens from bullying NPCs who have accused 
 him or her of theft. When you do this not only do you get points towards gaining endurance in battle 
 but you gain help in escaping too, in the form of scholars that help you hide or ruffians that 
 delay your pursuers. Since the whole city is actively looking for you after an assassination you're 
 going to need all the help you can get. Similarly, it's best to remove rooftop guards wherever 
 you see them, so that they don't become a problem during an escape. 
  
  Graphics and Sound 
  Visually the game is beautiful, with the Holy Land brought to life very 
 well indeed. Sometimes it's just fun to wander through the streets or over the rooftops just taking 
 in the atmosphere. I really can't criticise the game's graphics because they are phenominal. They 
 are some of the best graphics that I have ever seen, with almost photo-realistic graphics in a 
 perfectly realised environment. Having said that, when I was first playing there would sometimes 
 be points where I would get low resolution walls appearing and NPCs would completely disappear. 
 This bug happened to me two or three times within a few hours of first loading the game disc and 
 it's never happened since, so I don't know what caused it. Each time it happened I would save and 
 quit and restart and that fixed the issue. 
  
  Sounds are equally excellent and the voice acting is extremely good. Accents are patchy though 
 - French and Middle-eastern accents sound good but almost all of the 'English' voices remind me 
 of the pseudo-Cockney that can be heard in Hollywood films from the 1940s and '50s. Similarly the 
 German voices were a little too guttural for my liking - I could hardly understand a word because 
 the voice acting was so overdone. But the worst accent was that of the main character - apparently 
 we are supposed to believe that a Middle-Eastern assassin from the 12th century would speak with 
 an American accent. Maybe this was a developer decision - maybe they thought a realistic accent 
 wouldn't go over well in the post-9-11 world - but I would have appreciated a more realistic treatment. 
 Maybe that's being too nitpicky though, since hardly anyone in the 12th century would speak modern 
 english anyway. 
  
  Control System 
  The control system is a little more complex than other games of this type and the player is often 
 called upon to make simultaneous inputs, with a left stick input as well as a trigger and button 
 input with the right hand. At first I found this a little difficult but I soon got used to it. 
 Those skilled with the gamepad will find no problem here, but I found that after a few hours of 
 constant play the fingers of my right hand were very stiff, though it's nowhere near as bad as 
 the thumb soreness I get with many sports games. 
  
  The game has been accused of being a 'button-mashing' game. Do NOT believe those who say so. There 
 are a few simple button combinations which are easy to learn and put into practice. I mainly relied 
 on the counter-attack and the break-grip combos and I never once found myself mashing the buttons 
 at random as I have in some other games. 
  
  One annoying issue with the controls is the issue of using throwing knives. Often it's very hard 
 to hit your target in that the knife is supposed to be a one hit kill weapon and a lot of the time 
 the knife would just anger the enemy but not kill him, (especially when you're trying to get a 
 number of shots off in quick succession) . Also, it's easy to accidentally target an innocent NPC 
 that's running past you, so not only is your knife wasted but your view starts to track him too, 
 which pulls your attention from the bad guys. This issue becomes even worse if you're throwing 
 knives down from a rooftop because after every throw the camera moves up on its own away from the 
 action. I think this is the worst criticism I can make of the game as it virtually makes knife-throwing 
 from rooftops impossible. 
  
  Another issue is that when you're cornered in a street and you do a special kill move, the auto 
 camera will go into a cinematic of the move and then it places your viewpoint right behind a wooden 
 beam or a wall or canopy, virtually blinding you - this can be upsetting if you're surrounded by 
 enemies and close to death, especially if you're pretty sure you would normally be able to take 
 them.
  
  AI 
  The AI in this game has been criticised for being somewhat stupid, but in my view it is very realistic. 
 The AI portray the fear of being in a swordfight with a master swordsman (that's your character) 
 very well indeed. The AI often do not attack until they are goaded into it by their leader, and 
 unless there are two leaders in the fight they will not attempt attacks in combination with another 
 NPC. This is very realistic - in real life poorly-trained people will usually not attack when another 
 person is doing so. 
  
  On this issue in particular, I think many players have been led to expect AI to behave like elite 
 soldiers, but I think that's a false expectation. In this game you are the elite soldier and the 
 AI soldiers are frightened conscripts who need to drum up courage in order to attack you. The voices 
 and animations are very good indeed here, with soldiers cowering in fear after you kill someone 
 and with the leader saying "Attack him you cowards!" or something similar in German or French. 
 Anyway, the fact that the enemy attacks piecemeal one by one helps you out: if it was otherwise 
 this game would be extremely frustrating - you basically wouldn't stand a chance with more than 
 two opponents. 
  
  Another thing about the AI is that they respond in context - I just love the way they respond when 
 you climb a building, saying a number of phrases like "Why is he doing that?" or "He must be crazy" 
 or "If he gets hurt I won't help him". Some of the comments are quite funny and although there 
 are only a few responses I never got the feeling that they were too repetitive. 
  
  Overall 
  All-in-all this game was a great experience for me. With a setting that's both original 
 and interesting the game made me want to study the world of the Crusades more. I love the sandbox 
 format and the graphics are second to none. Gameplay is interesting although a bit repetitive (but 
 I don't know if that's a bad thing) and the bugs and gameplay issues are negligible. Also, I never 
 experienced framerate issues that some reviewers report. With this game and Mass Effect, I think 
 I'm all set for Xbox 360 games for a while. Assassin's Creed doesn't have multiplayer or co-op 
 modes and there's not too much scope for replay value, but it's a hell of a good game so I think 
 I'll be playing it through a few times, if only to get all of the acheivements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2theboogy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I was disappointed with Assassins Creed's marketing strategy. They made it seem 
 like this would be the game of the year and would push Bioshock for most innovative gameplay. The 
 controls and the freerunning were good, but not nearly hard enough to execute.
  
  Graphics: One word. Stunning. I played it on a 720P Insignia 42" and the colors and view were astounding. 
 Each character was awesomely detailed and the setting was absolutely gorgeous.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game loses a few notches. Fighting was entirely too easy, I died like 
 twice and that was due to falling in water. The countering system did level up quite nicely and 
 you felt like a real assassing towards the end. The minigames were bland and repetitive. With only 
 four types it lost its luster after the fourth assassination.
  
  Story: I enjoyed the story wrapped within a story. I'm not going to give away specifics but the 
 plot devices they use and the ending were close to perfect.
  
  Overall it could have used a more difficult combat system and a little more variety in side missions 
 but Assassin's Creed shines when it comes to the cliffhanger ending and the engrossing game world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akabeth
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games with intentions of being an action-oriented RPG and certainly 
 among the most ambitions games to date.
  
  (I can't imagine the amount of hours and money they spent to make the environment itself)
  
 
  When playing the game in a big-screen TV @ 720p or above (I use Xbox Elite at 1280*1024 small 
 20" compy screen = [ ) you will lose yourself in the couch... Every movement you commence with Altair 
 is done so well, you may think the whole thing is done in video. As mentioned countless times, 
 the crowd will react to your kills and it's rather fun to slaughter the guards in masses. The combat 
 is very simple, there are counter-attacks and other moves you can pull off on certain positions 
 while in combat and trust me, it will be needed in the end-game when you take on 10-20 guards at 
 a time.
  
  The questing does get a bit repetitive, but it shouldn't be too much since the game only requires 
 you to kill 9 specific targets.
  
  Also the big twist in the game so many people mention, is not as bad as it seems. It does distract 
 gameplay, and may not be necessary, but it's a creative move in Ubisoft's part and sets up the 
 stage for the next game in Assassin's Creed sequel.
  
  The game is short and sweet, and I have enjoyed every second of it.
  
  Way to go Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Critical_man
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  The game of Assasin's Creed is very special, is one of the games that I personaly I very very like 
 it ... The graphisc are just impresive, is like a movie (like beowolf) the history feels in the 
 game, and your goal consist in assasind all the corrupt of all the 3 cities. Tahir' (i dont how 
 to writhe it) is the man that you use in all the entire game, he is practicall Hitman but in the 
 past, he's skill's are very impressive, he can clim in all the construction's and house in all 
 the town and city, meaby you can remember Prince of Percia, but this game is more real in that 
 aspect, but the combat is more like the first prince of percia, in this game the varietly of combos 
 is a litle poor, but one you advance in the hisory, you learn more conunter atacks and the game 
 turns more unvelebiable. The dificult of the mission are normal, the game is more dificult wen 
 you are more ignorant and your skill like a player games are bad. In some parts of the history 
 and the game it self the gameplay turns a litle repetetive because you dont lear how no clim, or 
 how to run, or how to figh, you already now it, and the more fun thing in the game is assasin the 
 corrupts, but to do that you need to investigate first (steel, look for information, kill guars, 
 and all the thing that are repetetiv that i was mention) ... In conlusion The game is Unique, if 
 you are fand of prince of percia and you are crassy to play a action-adventure game and not a firs-shooter 
 game taht the xbox 360 are a lot of these!!! Well you will be feel grate wen you will playing this 
 game. I very recomended and is a beatifull adventure and different game that you remeber for years... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Outstanding; games like this are the reason that I purchased an Xbox 360! I am sure you are already 
 tracking the concept of the game, but the plotline moving from current times through "DNA Memories" 
 to the Crusades adds twists to the story that really weren't expected.
  
  The visuals and sound on this game are magnificent. This is the best "next gen" experience that 
 I have gotten from a game yet! (Sorry Oblivion, when you were all that was around, you were great, 
 but in terms of graphics and gameplay mechanics, this beats you hands down!) The landscapes are 
 rendered in rich detail, and the opportunity to find an area of the game where the designers were 
 "lazy" thinking you wouldn't find it hasn't happened yet.
  
  The controlls are intuitive and easy to master (through the earlier levels at least) your character 
 actually has some depth and you not only enjoy playing for the fun of the game, but he story draws 
 you in as well.
  
  While the overall size of the game (mapwise) is not as large as others, the ability to utilize 
 all three dimensions of the environment lets you maximize what you can use.
  
  Great game, definitely worth buying and I am glad that I got it fairly early. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2xx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is immersive, entertaining and very visually impressive. I have been played through 
 approx half of the game so far and thus far am yet to find a way to fault the overall design or 
 input mechanisms.
  
  The fight sequences are not so easy that it is boring, but not so hard that taking on 25 enemies 
 at the same time is not possible adding to the overall enjoyment of the experience, wether you 
 like to throw your enemies from the roofs of buildings, or you prefer to counter and kill with 
 your short sword with devastatingly gruesome effect. The silent assassinations and throwing knives 
 add again another level to the battle game mechanic truly making this game suitable for a variety 
 of play styles.
  
  Exploring the world and running the streets of the very detailed cities can consume hours of gameplay, 
 finding every last one of those flags will keep me up at night in the end i reckon. There always 
 seems to be things to do and despite the sometimes repetitious nature of the tasks you are completing, 
 i am still yet to tire of the process.
  
  All in all i enjoy this game greatly, and nearly don't want to finish it as the fun should never 
 really end. I don't know if i will play it through a second time, but once is definitely worth 
 the investment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeShadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  This is a good game has some replay value. but need more the end of the story was a drop off and 
 that kind ah should of been better have a end ing that works. But i feel their will be sequel pehaps 
 u play as Desomnd and in the futher u play as assissian finishing off the templar. but overall 
 i give it a 9.5 because of its looks to see him free run and climb a build is alsome and u shouldn't 
 miss it so if u have not play this game give it a try. u be that disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  I rushed out to buy this game on release day, as i have been waiting for it for months! My first 
 impressions were WOW!!!!!!!! this is great!!!!!!
  The graphics are some of the best on the 360 only being beaten by call of duty 4, the gameplay 
 is good with all the sneaking and pickpocketing
  
  BUT! after completeing the first assasination i went to another city and found out i had to do 
 EXACTLY the same again!!!!!! the only differance was the scenery and the baddies were harder to 
 kill! I have now finished the game and will be trading it this weekend as there is no incentive 
 to replay it which is a bit of a shame really, its a good game that is spoiled by repetetiveness!
 
  
  Make no mistakes, this is a good game but it could have been a GREAT game. I hope there will be 
 more content in the follow ups, because if there is Ubisoft will have a real winner on their hands. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sick29
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 10/10
  The graphics in this game are simply amazing, sometimes on the edge of photo-realistic. The environments 
 are breathtaking, and the cities are very well done. They also did a very good job not making the 
 game look like everything is clime-able. It just looks like a natural environment. The characters 
 faces are probably the weakest point here, while they are very good, a few games do beat them out.
 
  
  Sound 9/10
  The only place this will let you down is in the main characters speech. He is very monotone and 
 speaks without any feeling or emphasis. All the rest of the characters sound great, and the background 
 and battle noise is well done.
  
  Story 5/10
  Very hard to follow, The jumping from the future to the past kind of throws you off at points. 
 Its also very bothersome to be in Medieval times and to have a tech based interface.
  
  Gameplay 7.5/10
  While being able to climb just about anything in this game is alot of fun, the 
 rest of it gets incredibly repetitive. Battle is either alot of mashing the X button, or siting 
 there holding RT and waiting for your opponent to attack so you can counter with X. (The latter 
 of the two I would recommend as the kills this way look awesome.) Missions are basically the same 
 thing over and over again as well.
  
  Replayability 2/10
  While there are some factors that might want to make you replay the game, its repetitive nature 
 will have bored you enough through the first play through.
  
  Recommendation
  Rent it.
  
  Recommendation to the Creators
  This game would be much better as an RPG. Put some customization 
 in there with weapons and such, add some gear, and add some different missions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The way this game was hyped, you'd think it was going to be a cross between Oblivion, Ninja Gaiden 
 and Prince of Persia. It promised exciting chases, elaborately planned assassinations, a fully 
 interactive living world, blah blah blah. Then it hits shelves and it's very little of that. It's 
 like a really pretty, extremely smooth Tenchu. Seriously. Your only goal is to kill people. OK, 
 so that's built into the title, but seriously now, the only other things you can do are pickpocket 
 and spy on people, with the purpose of killing more people. The mechanics and scenery are really 
 very cool, and leaping over rooftops and climbing to the tops of towers and steeples is as beautiful 
 and cool as you imagine it would be, but its cool factor fades quickly when you realize you're 
 dashing around towns whose people won't talk to you, whose guards and soldiers (ALL of them) want 
 to kill you for no particular reason, and whose only existence seems to be to house your targets, 
 all nine of them. There are virtually no buildings that you can actually enter, making the buildings 
 a big facade; the Templar Knights that you are tasked with killing (and it's never explained why 
 they're your mortal enemy - or why the crusades exist, for that matter) seem to guard their treasure, 
 but once you've killed them, you receive no reward, no item, no real reason for having assassinated 
 them; you will tend to fight every enemy the same way -- and never mind that you're just one "stealthy" 
 assassin, you can kill a swarm of dozens of men in a few minutes; your dealings with your organiztion 
 are fairly stupid, as the bureau heads (who all look and sound the same, no matter what town you're 
 in) taunt you and doubt your competence, and your leader merely tosses new equipment at you (and 
 lame equipment at that) with a few words of encouragement whenever you finish a mission or two. 
 The funny thing is, it's a fairly good game, for a rental anyway, but its shelf life and replay 
 value is that of, say, Crackdown. Kill everyone. Sort of enjoy the story. Mop up the very limited 
 amount of side missions. Wait patiently for GTA IV. I would have given this game a straight-up 
 6, but its graphics and fight scenes sort of put it over the cusp of being an average game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Kroll
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed by this highly anticipated title. While the setting and the story are creative 
 and interesting, the interface and being forced to execute carefully timed puzzle-like moves repeatedly 
 frustrated me to a point where I could not enjoy the painstakingly created environment, beautiful 
 graphics, fun combat system, or creative back-story. 
  
  Interactions with hundreds of NPC (most of which seem like copies of a dozen archetypes or so) , 
 are pretty much limited to moving around, gently bumping into, roughly shoving, or attacking them. 
 The game felt very repetitive. Just keep doing the same thing over and over again, with slightly 
 different window-dressing to distinguish the locations and NPCs. 
  
  If you fail a puzzle -- most of which the somewhat clumsy interface reduces to button-mashing annoyances 
 -- you simply get to try it over and over and over and over again. If you fail, the NPCs involved 
 quickly forget you as soon as you manage to hide out of sight. Encounter them again a few seconds 
 later, and everyone has amnesia. 
  
  For me the game that I expected to transport me into a rich, open-ended story set during the Crusades, 
 simply felt like a timing-and-button-mashing puzzler. It's way too linear and repetitive to be 
 a lot of fun and definitely my recommendation as a rent, don't buy title.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Assassains Creed is an amazing ambitious game that the industry needed to keep it from the restraints 
 of fps games that seem to be flooding the industry. That is the reason it is so ambitious because 
 it is not an fps shooter and they did an amazing job at making it good. The controls need some 
 getting use to but once you do you'll be able to kill everyone and anyone. This does get repetative 
 but it is so much fun.
  
  The storyline is very detailed and interesting and has a few good twists. For a game of it's type, 
 it isn't a very long game about 10-15 hours. I would like to be longer. The crowd and maps are 
 incredible. The crowd moves and reacts to what you do and the cities are just giagantic.
  
  The graphics are amazing and detailed. At times they'll glitch and fuzz but go away in about 2 
 seconds. The shadows are great and textures even better. The main character mostly is very detail 
 so he kinda stands out and takes away the sense of realistic gameplay they promised.
  
  Everyone should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragornjer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  As I started off playing this game while I was sick it was confusing at the beginning. The Doc 
 filled you in in some places but it sound as if it were a mystery game. And while playing the beginning 
 of the game I got confused on the controls. I haven't played a game where it involved the D-pad. 
 But as the game progressed, I grew more accustomed to the controls and started understanding the 
 storyline a little bit better. It started off hard because I forgot stuff and trying to kill guards 
 was hard. But it got fun. Like the Leap of faith and killing the Templars. That was fun as hell. 
 Sadly it also got harder and a little bit more annoying. I would walk in the streets and a slave 
 would push me into a guard or into a Templar I was trying to assassinate. Then a whole riot would 
 start with guards and I would have to fight them and win. This got terribly annoying. And then 
 at the end of the game where you have to kill the assassin master the globe of the world appears 
 and it has dots around it. What is that supposed to be. And the Miles guy having the "Eagle Vision"? 
 Does that mean there is going to be a second? It would be great, but maybe not. Who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warewolf77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever. By far my most favorite game. It has everything i wanted. Great graphics, amazing 
 game-play, really smart AI and the fighting system is awesome too. This is a must have. Definitely 
 next gen. I have not stop playing since it came out. there is so much too do. The flags are a little 
 stupid but every game has there annoying side. If you are thinking about buying DO IT. You will 
 not regret this. Even after you kill the main guys it doesn't end there you can roam the cities 
 like its grand theft auto. Let me remind you tho, there are only swords, daggers, throwing knives, 
 fists and a hidden blade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Best i've seen to date. Everything is beautifully crafted.
  
  Sound: Every sound you would hear in the medieval age is around including beggers, bells, and churchs, 
 even vendors selling their wares.
  
  Replay: Extremely high because of all the collectibles and side missions.
  
  Gameplay: The 
 Active run system is elegantly threaded together with the crowd mechanics to create a wonderful 
 world where you must carry out hits within 3 bustling cities full of all the afore mentioned mechanics 
 and more. The Mission's can get quite repetitive since there are only 4 or 5 types to choose from. 
 The fill-in-the-map mechanic is quite ingenious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  In the last two months, there have been several huge games that have come out. But Assassin's Creed 
 stands out as a beautiful and innovative game. It puts you in a breathtaking, vast world that you 
 can explore to your liking.
  
  You play as an assassin called Altair during the Third Crusade, year 1191. He is part of an assassin 
 clan in Mayasf. Your mission is to explore three key cities: Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem, and 
 take down nine key men who are making life tough for the citizens of the era. The cities literally 
 live and breath with beggars, guards, scholars, thugs, and regular townspeople. The world you explore 
 is extremely lifelike and referenced directly to the actual cities of that time. The world is so 
 well planned out, that you can actually interact with every little detail in each city. Whether 
 it be climbing up walls (which you can do with ease) , pushing citizens aside, running from guards, 
 jumping through merchants stands, and much more, everything feels very epic and exciting. It gives 
 you a great sense of freedom.
  
  Obviously, the game is true to its name. You have four different means of violence. A hidden blade, 
 which is used to assassinate your targets (or innocent civilians, if you like) , a sword, the basic 
 weapon you will use while fighting guards, throwing knifes, what you use to kill your targets from 
 afar, and your fists.
  
  The story is confusing, but if you listen closely during the cutscenes you will understand it. 
 All the time you spend in the cities are all memories, and you are part of a science experiment. 
 This guy has kidnapped you and strapped you to a machine called the Animus. In attempt to learn 
 more about your ancestors, this machine will dig through your mind and look for your genetic memory, 
 or memory inherited from your ancestors. In this case, your ancestor is Altair, and you are using 
 the animus to uncover his adventures. I know it doesn't really make sense, but it will when you 
 play the game.
  
  While roaming in towns, be aware of the soldiers around you, and be careful not to do anything 
 suspicious while they are close to you. There is also a soldier alert symbol next to your synchronization 
 bar (health) . White means you are safe, and either no soldier sees you or doesn't suspect you. 
 Yellow means they are suspicious, but they have no reason to assault you because you have done 
 nothing wrong. Red means the soldiers are very alert that you might have done something wrong, 
 and if you get to close they will immediately assault you. 
  
  There are a lot of things Altair can do, and its all mapped out onto the controller. To sum it 
 up, there are high profile actions and low profile actions. High profile actions are moves that 
 will likely alert guards, such as attacking people with your sword, pushing civilians, and even 
 running. Low Profile moves are those that guards will not bother you for, such as blending (praying, 
 basically, which is your way of fitting into the crowd as a scholar) , gently pushing civilians, 
 and even fist fights. When you do get caught, your guard awareness symbol flashes bright red, warning 
 you that the guards can see you and are after you. You have two choices here. Either fight, or 
 run like hell. 
  
  The fighting system is relatively easy to use. At the beginning of the game, you will mostly be 
 button mashing to fight guards, but over time you will unlock abilities you can use to defend yourself. 
 A lot of times you will find yourself fighting huge groups of guards, but if you are good at timing 
 your combos and counter moves correctly, you could make it out easily. Even though there are say, 
 six guards around you, they will not all attack you all at once in fear of hurting their own allies. 
 So, they will attack you one by one, giving you a chance to take down each one. Once you rid of 
 all of them, your awareness symbol should turn white, but you should still get out of the area. 
 Once more guards arrive to investigate what has happened, they will attack you in suspicion. 
 
  
  Another method of escape is running away. If there are about twenty guards tailing you (trust me 
 it will happen) , then your chances of escape are low. Its best to first thin them in numbers, then 
 run. As you run, your awareness symbol may turn yellow, which signals that the guards have lost 
 sight of you. This is your chance to quickly run into a hiding spot, like a bench, blending into 
 scholars, or a haystack. Or, if your on the roof, this box thing. After being in the hiding spot 
 for about 10 seconds, your symbol should go back to white, symboling its safe to go back out again.
 
  
  Along the storyline, you will be given assassination targets from a man named Al-Mualim, the master 
 of the assassin's clan. You will be told to investigate the city for clues on where the target 
 is, and when is a good time to strike. In the cities, you will be doing investigations like pickpocketing, 
 interrogation (where you beat someone up until they give you information) , and eavesdropping. You 
 will also be doing side quests for other assassins who need your help. A long the way, why not 
 check out some view points or help a civilian being harassed by guards? Once you do your investigations, 
 you will need to assassinate your target.
  
  You will find that some of the things you do will get repetitive, but not so much in the way that 
 you will get bored of it. You will be doing a lot of the same kind of things, but in newer environments 
 and situations that you don't really mind. Even when you beat the game, you can go back to previous 
 "memories" and finish side quests that you skipped earlier. 
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a very innovative game that gives you the freedom to do whatever you 
 want, make choices, plan strategies, and have a whole lot of fun killing people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-IronMan-x
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Alright well this is my first review, and i am pretty happy to be writing about a game such as 
 Assassin's Creed (AC) . For those who've been living under a rock for the last year or so, this 
 had been one of the most anticipated games for several months now and many have mixed opinions 
 about it. So ill throw in my two cents.
  
  So for those that haven't managed reading the other reviews or just somehow skimmed the storyline 
 here goes - you're first set in a near future era, playing Desmond Miles, descendant of a line 
 of assassins. Desmond's been recently captured by a company that hold him prisoner and memories 
 stored in his DNA using a machine called the "Animus". This premise is really interesting for a 
 story, especially since Ubisoft delves into the era of the Third Crusade where you get to play 
 as a (ex) Master assassin, Altair. 
  
  So the premise is good, graphics look great off the beginning but the fun doesn't start until you 
 spill some blood right? What would GTA be without the senseless violence? Anyways, you're thrown 
 into the fray pretty quickly, initially with all your skills - its damn good fun watching the fights 
 as the visuals are smooth and compliment the limb breaking, throat slitting action. These movements 
 are brutal and accomplish a great deal of immersion and representation of how brutal this period 
 of history truly was. 
  
  The question of fighting as i have read brought up quite a bit of discussion, mostly bashing. The 
 enemies don't all charge to attack you, but simply encircle you. This gives dramatic effect, but 
 definitly lacks some reality, as you are able to manage fighting over 20 or so soldiers without 
 taking too many hits. The system is beautiful and intricate for fighting, however, the simplicity 
 lends a hand at rending the difficulty a tad low. 
  
  The controls are excellent for fighting and are quite responsive, especially when you manage to 
 annihilate a contingent of men in front of Damascus. However, the real freedom is within the free-running, 
 parkour and liberty in the climbing of the cities. The views are awe-inspiring and the immersion 
 Ubisoft has added is incredible, sounds, screams, merchants yelling, everything helps to immerse 
 you. The controls for running and climbing are simple, but need mastering if you're planning on 
 running away after an assassination. It is truly amazing how dynamic the world is, especially the 
 people as they react to your movements, from unsheathing your sword to running into a guard. 
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful and add to this crusade theme, primarily through the cutscenes and the 
 main characters, but as we see over hundreds and thousands of people in-game, its understanble 
 some won't be as neatly designed. 
  
  So there are some quirks with assassin's creed (mostly i've been to Masyaf twice now and the game's 
 glitched, making me fall through the ground to my death) but this game has met alot of the hype 
 it's built up, unlike many other games. Im on my 7th assassination now and im enjoying the game, 
 although much more content could have been added reinforcing the pleasure aspect of the game, such 
 as lower profile assassinations or tailing certain suspects. No doubt some quirks, but if Ubi's 
 planning on making another one, im definitly grabbin my wallet for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_59
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting this game to be good with a slight a bit of it not quite living up to the build 
 up but I have just been amazed at the way this game has been put together and they way you can 
 interact with the environment and the characters in the game. I still love diving off a high building 
 into a high cart, a bit sad I know but it is just fun to do. I didn't realize that this game had 
 a twist to it, i. e., you are not actual a assassin but a character that some how goes back in time 
 via the machine. The more I play the game the more I get drawn into it I just hope that just hope 
 that it continues to amaze me as I progress through it. Going by what I have seen so far I am sure 
 it will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIronMaydenx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Assassin's Creed is a visual masterpiece. 
  -The cities are large, full of literally hundreds of citizens and looks like a REAL city where 
 people would live. 
  -Traveling between cities has an enviroment like Gun (but bigger) which you can roam the countryside 
 and outlying villages on horseback is a great way to mix up the bustling city environments.
  -The sword battles are fluid, fun, look and feel realistic.
  -Compelling story that makes you 
 want to keep going, if just to find out what happens.
  
  Cons:
  -Very little mission variety. You'll find yourself doing the same things over and over.
  -No 
 real time day and night. It's always the same "time" and all the NPC's are in the same places regardless 
 of how much time has passed.
  -Sometimes assasinating people in broad daylight seems a little too easy.
  
  Overall:
  Great! 
 with a little more variety in the missions, you would have yourself a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theodin211
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible, the graphics, sound, game play.... is astonishing. The visuals are seamless 
 and sharp. I have had some of the most satisfying battles in my 20+ years of gaming. The climbing 
 and jumping from rooftop to rooftop is realistic and feels natural. The combat system is very fulfilling 
 and smooth. The open-ended game play can keep you busy for days.... well hours. I have really enjoyed 
 this game, and I know that you will too. Assassin's Creed is a instant masterpiece. I feel that 
 my XBOX 360 has been blessed by the honor of playing this game. The game brings you inside and 
 won't let you go. The game is just plain fun to play. 
  
  
  
  
  Theodin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volt64
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely different. It's a mix of stealth and action, although you'll most likely 
 be playing it as an action game most of the time. Basically, you're an assassin alive during the 
 third crusade and you're basically trying to liberate three cities from corrput politicians and 
 other high-ranking officials. You're actually more of a hero then an evil assassin. The gameplay 
 is pretty exciting. IT reminds me of Prince of PErsia ad the concept is similar to the Hitman series. 
 There's plenty of fighting involved, although it can become repetitive and it's a major letdown 
 that the only enemies are guards. It's great fun jumpin from rooftop to rooftop, all the while 
 swinging on poles and climbing ladders. The bad part about this game is that you end up doing the 
 same thing over and over again. BAsically you find clues to help you gain enough info. to assassinate 
 your target. The clue-finding involves a variety of almost mini-games such as  
 other assassins' targets, and flag-colecting. This gets old pretty fast, but while it's fresh its 
 pretty damn fun. Throughout the game you'll find tall buildings to climb and citizens being harassed 
 by guards that you can save. Doing these events adds more to your health bar and makes NPCs block 
 pursuing guards so you can escape. Besides this story, there's a second story going on in present 
 time. You play as the assassins descendant and you're in a lab where you learn about a growing 
 plot that i won't spoil for you. Overall, the game is pretty fun and it's always entertaining just 
 jumping from roof to roof. The game should spawn a sequel and I think it will fix up the minor 
 flaws in this one. It's still a fun game but you might want to rent it instead of buying it because 
 it's pretty short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: che15
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I just started playing this game and am enjoying the great graphics and scenery, it brings the 
 Cursades to life. You will have fun exploring the different towns and villages. The game is easy 
 to control and the assassinations are a one shot deal. There are a few glitches but nothing to 
 go crazy about. You also have free range of movement and interaction. The cut scenes are great 
 to watch. This is truly a next Gen game. Get a pair of headphones and enjoy the ride. In my opinion, 
 Assassin's Creed is second to Gears of War. A really good game. Can't wait to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr33km4n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Assassin's Creed! The ending (and secret ending) definitely allude to a sequel 
 and with the massive positive responses people are giving about AC, AC2 will definitely be made. 
 I never got frustrated with anything (except when my 360 froze 2,000 times) , and that's a first 
 for any game. AC is positively the best game ever to be released. The gameplay was perfect, and 
 easy, with the counter-attack system. Free-running and collecting flags were a great addition to 
 the game. The story was extremely deep and wasn't lame like the same old Prey or WWII games' plots. 
 Even with the game's story complete, there is still much to do, which really makes the difference 
 betwwen buying the game and renting it. As for my rating, better than any game I've played before, 
 a 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oraledeaki
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  well... this game was one of the most promising games in the last years so it was kind of dissapointing 
 that it was pure marketing, in the end the game looks incredible, great light effects, badass animation 
 actually you can play this game a few hours just to see Altair moving.... quite organic the way 
 everything reacts to you and you to everything.
  combat.... well combat again its worth only for the great great animation and great movements, 
 Altair reacts in several ways to the same action so for you it will be pressing the same button 
 over and over but youll see Altair killing in many diferent ways.
  goals in the game are always the same.... seems like they spent all the money and production in 
 the way the game looks, while a game is not made entirelly by looks this one fails in the most 
 important aspect in a game..... FUN doing the same thin over and over is not in any way funny ... 
 save cityzens by killing the guards around them (there are so many of those sityzens and its always 
 the same) ... pickpoket a spesified guy or listening to people, by that i dont mean you can pickpoket 
 anyone or listen to anyone noooo... but the wrost part is that its always the damn same thing.
 
  so in my opinion this is a game that is great in many aspects and fails in a few..... unfortunatelly 
 those few aspects are the most important in a GAME.
  well its up to you but i say RENT IT FIRST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessiejames21
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Plus points out of the way first, graphics are amazing, story is quite good and achievements are 
 quite easy to get. now with that out of the way, the game isnt bad its quite good but as i was playing 
 it i was constantly thinking how it could have been great. the enemy a. i and combat is really poor, 
 and the voice acting of the people on the streets got annoying very fast. as will as that apart 
 from the colours of the cities there is no real difference between the cities which u play through. 
 as well as that the missions are repeated all the way through with no attempt to progress or get 
 harder. even tough there are a large number of bad points the game is enjoyable to play through, 
 as the free running mechanic if a little to basic to control is implemented well. with an improved 
 combat system and more varied and fun missions a sequel could be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunjak3
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game has one of the best atmospheres. You actually feel like you are in an ancient city. The 
 movement scheme and fighting are also pretty exceptional. Its great fun to just go running accross 
 buildings and dive 10 stories into a pile of hay. 
  Even though the production and gameplay are superb, even something superb can get monotonous over 
 time if there are only a few things to do. I found that after about the 4th assasination I started 
 asking myself, "Is this it?" I climbed every tower I could find, saved all the citezens and fought 
 some guards, then assasinated my target. Rinse and repeat 9 more times. There seems to be really 
 only about 5 things you can actually do in the game. The open endedness is a little misleading. 
 Maybe if there were quests to do on the side and people to meet kind of like Grand Theft Auto it 
 would feel more in depth. But after you play it for a while you start to realize that all you really 
 get to do is save citizens, fight guards, find view points and assasinate targets. I gets old. 
 If they plan on a sequel then some more side quests and less repetition is in order. Its a linear 
 game in an open ended world and that combination just feels strange. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baebi13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and concept. The free roaming and no set times when missions need to be complete 
 are what make this game. Jumping around on walls, killing soldiers, and blending in with the general 
 population is bad ass. There are some minor glitches such as just falling through the ground into 
 nothing and then dieing, which can get annoying but it is very minor compared to the quality of 
 the game. Also towards the end of the game a altair double shows up and I don't know how to get 
 rid of it. But if you get this game which you should, it wont disappoint you and is all around 
 a fun and addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven360UK
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  I have played this for a few hours and have become gradually more disappointed. I don't think I'll 
 finish it.
  
  I'll start with the positives - it has gorgeous visuals, the controls handle quite well, and the 
 audio is excellent.
  
  The negatives - gameplay is so dull that I just can't be bothered. Hundreds of flags to find, citizens 
 to save, buildings to climb in each city. Once you've done a few you realise they're all the same 
 in each city. When it tells you that you've found flag 1 out of 100 for just one city you think 
 - 'can i be bothered to find them all?'
  
  Overall - Amazing graphics and visuals spoilt by repetitive and dull missions. Very disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Ninja
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an amazing game for many reasons; you can do anything from stealthily assassinating 
 your way through guards to confronting 100 guards in direct confrontation.
  Assassin's Creed's fighting is one of the best I've ever played, and it's so cool to watch the 
 amazing combo's & counters.
  Assassin's Creed has the graphics better than ANY game I've EVER played, games like Halo doesn't 
 come close.
  (The game also has not glitched yet.)
  Assassin's creed has the largest map in any 360 game to date, with 5 separate sections, 4 of which 
 are huge.
  
  Assassin's Creed Is a game well worth getting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leophi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  The game had a lot of potential.
  
  Starting off, the game keeps you interested and eager to find out more but as you go along you 
 realize that you keep doing the same thing over and over again. 
  
  Doing the same four things to gather information to receive your assassination target. Assassinating 
 your target and running out of sight to complete the mission.
  
  Overall this game is extremely easy. The guards seem to do very little damage to you, and once 
 you gain the counter ability its like instant God Mode.
  
  The movement and combat was done very well. The actions the character takes when fighting and free 
 running are excellent and can be a lot of fun. A lot of reviews state this game is a button smasher. 
 Yeah it "can" be but to save your controllers i would suggest paying attention to the fighting 
 tutorial (that you are automatically entered into) .
  
  The game atmosphere and scenery is extremely beautiful and from what I can tell accurate.
  
 
  In-game interaction is also repetitive. Running through the streets you always hear the same thing 
 being said by the guards chasing you, or by the people on the streets. Some of the one-liners are 
 funny at first, but get very old after hearing them a million times.
  
  This game could have been amazing if a little more time was put into it. Just by cutting down the 
 repetitiveness, and making it a little more challenging would of given this game the edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  *any sentence starting with * is a spoiler, a - means that its safe again.
  
  Well if u loved Zelda and well you like realistic graphics, well then I'm pretty confident that 
 your gonna love this game!
  * Well i was kinda worried there when it started cause of the whole future thing going on but it 
 turned out to be really nice and added a lot to the story!
  - Well at the begging a little that i found annoying that in the first 30 min well 70% is well 
 listening to people talk (sorta like movies but u can move in the movie but nothing really happens) 
 or well movies... but after that well u get on a horse and you're free! yeppy!
  * Well except for the part that you're skill-less and weaponless pretty much.
  - Now for those 
 that have the length of the game worry! Ive played over 25 hours and I've assassinated 4 of the 
 9 targets. So the game is about 50 hours.
  But its still really fun to just climb stuff, jump around and piss of the guards and then ether 
 run or kill em all.
  The graphics in the game are just amazing! I'm pretty sure that these are the best graphics i have 
 ever seen. And not only that, the everything is interactive makes it 5 times better!
  Now the AI is smart but after you learn the counter skills their really kinda of easy and if the 
 creators would have made a difficulty option it would have been much better but even though its 
 just lots of fun.
  I think that there are a few problems with the game. If the were fixed then the game would have 
 gotten a 10.
  First of all the investigation part is too repetitive. And so is are the side missions, which there 
 are only 3 types * (Save citizen, Reach high points, and find flags) , - they're nice and all but 
 there just not enough verity of side missions (same goes for the investigations) and well the flags 
 are pretty pointless... they're only for achievement points and you don't get in bonus in the game. 
 
  Second the Kingdom is the area that connects the cities together. But what is meant for but that? 
 Nothing. There are flags there to collect but again those are just for achievement points and you 
 can skip the whole kingdom part because their is a menu that once you enter the Kingdom asks you 
 if you would like to skip to a city.
  Third which i have already said, there should be a difficulty level selection because the game 
 is too easy.
  Well that the end of my review and well Assassin's Creed is the Best game i have played so far 
 and i would have finished it already but because of the whole repetitive part the game can't be 
 played for more than 2-3 hours a day. (except the first day) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrotaylor
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Horribly repetitive game play. After the first mission is completed you've basically done everything 
 the game has for you to do, now you get to do it 8 more times! YAY! Wait, no yay, bore. The game 
 felt more like a task then something fun to do. Only reason to sit through all of it in the hope 
 that it gets better and that you didn't just blow $60 on a game that is lame. Well sorry, it doesn't 
 get better, and you did just waste your money. If you haven't taken it out of the original wrapping 
 yet, then return it while you can for anything better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirtuaJoe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  We'll just come out and say it: Assassin's Creed is good, very good and is by no means a disappointment. 
 Developers Ubisoft Montreal should be praised for their ambition- during a time when nearly every 
 major release is a shooter or involves a jumping fat man and his living shadow- and we should welcome 
 this with open (chubby) arms. There will be times when your truly stunned at what you are seeing, 
 what you are doing and there will also be times when you'd rather slip a hidden blade in your own 
 rib-cage than play on.
  You primarily play as Altair, "The flying-one" in English, a member of the Hashshashin (Assassin's) 
 sect. Their goal is to create peace within the world and their immediate concern is the ongoing 
 crusades between the Saracens and the Crusaders. Altair is charged with assassinating 9 of these 
 men, from both sides, in an attempt to bring peace to the Holy Land, however an underlying conspiracy 
 is revealed throughout the game, which is made all the more intriguing by the parallel story set 
 in the future. 
  The developers have taken great pride in the fact that the three main cities in the game (Acre, 
 Damascus and Jerusalem) are all historically accurate and the targets you assassinate all disappeared 
 around 1191AD, but they were not necessarily killed. This job has been done brilliantly and if 
 it wasn't for the fact that every time you targeted someone glyphs appeared on screen, then you 
 would actually believe that you were in that time period. What helps create this sense most is 
 that the citizens all react naturally to you, beggars follow you around pleading for money (you'll 
 learn to love them) , merchants gather big crowds to look at their wares and there are demonstrators 
 in the street giving speeches. On top of that, cause a fuss in the street, like a fist fight, the 
 crowd will circle around you like a schoolyard scuffle and this gives you great satisfaction when 
 you knock the other guy out. An equally likeable moment is pushing a guard off a rooftop killing 
 him in the process; listening and watching as the crowd enter mass hysteria and begin to alert 
 other guards. In short, this game's graphics and crowd A. I. succeed brilliantly at immersing you 
 in a medieval Holy Land fantasy.
  Graphics-wise this game is indeed top-notch, the first time you see Damascus your jaw will be moved 
 6 inches from your face, it's truly stunning, like the first time you see the wide world in Oblivion. 
 Altair moves with incredible grace and flow, the animations are superb and although there are one 
 or two old hiccups along the way, these are very much forgivable because of their rarity. You will 
 find that you derive a great amount of fun from simply climbing rooftops and standing atop them, 
 marveling at the wide-open vistas below you. I wouldn't go as far as saying this was the best looking 
 game on the 360, but it is definitely in the upper echelon of lookers. Much like Jade Raymond, 
 the majestic producer of Assassin's Creed, a very attractive woman but not quite Kate Beckinsale.
 
  On a completely unrelated note, the voice acting is very good. However, the worst voice is for 
 the protagonist, which doesn't really make sense. Altair just stands out with his American accent. 
 What's worse is there doesn't seem to be very many lines of dialogue, the citizens seem to repeat 
 themselves a lot, which can really get on your nerves, it's just not hard to come up with more 
 than 2-3 things that the entire citizenry of the world can say in a given situation. Can someone 
 tell me how many lines of dialogue they actually recorded for this game? Answers on a postcard 
 please. However, try very hard not to hit the mute button and you will be rewarded with a fantastic 
 score, which really emphasizes the key moments of the game when the action really heats up, sort 
 of like the darkness, but the other way round.
  What about the gameplay, I hear you ask, fear not, I have the answers. As I said before, there 
 are 9 main assassinations within the game, and although this does not sound like much it will stretch 
 out to about 15 hours of play (it's a shame there weren't more of these because they are extremely 
 enjoyable) if you do all of the side quests alongside. The side quests can get very monotonous 
 as there are only 6 basic types and although fun at first can quickly get old. The good thing is 
 you don't have to do all of these if you don't want to, only 2-3 are required to progress the story. 
 Basically, you have to Scout, Stalk and Kill your targets (then run away) . You achieve this through 
 a series of "information gathering" missions, then reporting to the local contact to begin your 
 assassination. You'll creep through ornate palaces to take out a fat merchant, hunt down a creepy 
 doctor in a hospital, and even put an end to Big Brother's Chanelle. Sorry, we got your hopes up. 
 
  Combat is very simple on the surface but look deeper and you will unlock a wealth of abilities 
 to take down your foes. This is where the AI begins to disappoint. More often than not, the guards 
 take it in turns to attack you, which makes it too easy, but as you progress further in to the 
 game, the guards start to attack with greater urgency and you'll have to rely on split second timing 
 to pull off the oh-so-satisfying counter kills. You have your Sword, Short Blade, Throwing Knives, 
 Fists (not recommended as a killing device) and Hidden blade at your disposal. These are unlocked 
 periodically as you progress through the game, after being stripped off your rank and equipment 
 at the start of the game, by your master, after a failed assassination. 
  The control system is like no other and we believe this should be praised. Each button on your 
 control pad represents a part of your body, stick with me on this. Y is your head, X is your weapon 
 hand, B your non-weapon hand and A is your legs. RT changes you from low profile to high profile 
 mode, which allows you to perform different moves, e. g. in low profile and pressing B, you gently 
 push a citizen away, which is socially acceptable, but in high profile mode you grab them and shove 
 them down, which is not acceptable and you will soon find guards charging down on your person. 
 This is very intuitive and once you get your head around it, you'll be OK; after all there is a 
 1 hour tutorial section, although it won't seem like it.
  The ending. the God Damn ridiculous ending. What a letdown! Without dishing out a ton O'spoilers, 
 I'll just say neither of the two storylines is truly resolved. After an entire game of set-up I 
 expected a massive pay-off that just didn't arrive and this is obviously tailored for a sequel 
 and an interesting future for the Assassin's franchise but ultimately leaves this installment with 
 a sour aftertaste (Darkness ending anyone?) .
  This may seem like I'm being, on the whole, overwhelmingly positive, but this isn't the case. Play 
 Assassin's creed for an hour and you'll believe it's the best game in the history (and future) 
 of the universe, but continue playing and cracks begin to appear. The side missions are repetitive; 
 the Intel you gather makes little difference and who on Earth is going to collect all those flags, 
 well me because I want to impress Jade Raymond with my 1000 Gamerscore unlocked, but that's not 
 the point. Collecting flags does not make you feel like a super-assassin. 
  That being said, we loved this game, it's a refreshing blend of free-running and combat and if 
 you play it in short bursts then you will have the time of your life. Just make sure you lower 
 your expectations a notch when you start. 
  
  The Verdict
  
  +++ Primary Missions Kick serious ass
  ++ Climbing buildings, running around, mixing with the 
 crowd
  + Spectacular cities brimming with activity and jaw-dropping vistas
  - Can get repetitive
  -- Occasional Pop-ups on screen
  --- THATDAMN. ENDING 
  
  9.0/10
 
  Superb
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonCircus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is like watching the Miss Universe contest. 
  It starts out hopeful, as you more and more enjoy the eye candy, 
  but after a while, the novelty 
 party tricks or talents, and vapid shreds of wisdom blend together to form one boring repetitive 
 mess until the eye candy is so over-run by sheer repetition and stupidity that you just have to 
 turn off. 
  
  Now Assassin's Creed is hampered by hundreds of faults that become obvious after about an hour 
 of play. The main fault, as such, is that the game is ridiculously shallow. Just like a Miss Universe 
 contestant, 
  it all starts out well, but as soon as the game goes further than just pretty graphics and a cool, 
 tactile environment (*ahem*) you run into trouble. Well, specifically, you run into nothing. And 
 that's just it. Once you're past the amazing graphics, the beautifully constructed cities complete 
 with bustling citizens there is absolutely nothing deeper. Every aspect of the game, when placed 
 under the magnifying glass, falls down due to poor design decisions and amazingly, stunningly simplistic 
 gameplay. 
  I was mistaken and fooled by the name. I thought that Assassin's Creed would focus on my being 
 an assassin. How stupid I was. To be honest, I thought I was looking at a medieval Saint's Row 
 in which I would use my environment to pull off amazing assassination feats as I decided who should 
 live or die. How wrong I was. I want to state now that Assassin's Creed is the furthest idea of 
 the traditional assassin - and again, not in a good way. I'll explain why;
  
  The gameplay in Assassin's Creed is hinged solely on the ability of your character - Altair - to 
 climb over and on every environment object in sight. The environment is the main event. 
  You can tell - it's done fantastically, as your seamlessly swing from beam to beam in an adrenaline 
 packed parkour (or freerun) trip across 3 ancient destinations of the Holy Land.
  This amazing environment - the sense of freedom as you roam the kingdom, is completely directionless 
 though- with non of the beautifully constructed towns outside the cities having any significance 
 other than to provide just another Templar, flag or viewpoint to complete. Actually, the only thing 
 in the game that rewards you aside from the assassinations themselves is just that - killing Templar's, 
 collecting flags and reaching view points. 
  They are also your only real point of interaction with the world outside of cities. But don't get 
 your hopes up! 
  Cities themselves are almost more boring and repetitive, as you scale marked viewpoint after viewpoint 
 to gather "information" on the city around you. Now this sounds cool, but in reality, you may as 
 well replace viewpoints with the 
  pulling of a lever in order for several portals to appear, each containing one of 4 mini-games 
 in which you basically do exactly the same thing with a very few exceptions. You're almost always 
 going to end up fighting as well. You have no choice as to the path you take and the game seems 
 stupidly limiting in your experience as an assassin. Whenever you reach one of 3 target cities, 
 you scale a viewpoint, contact an informer, pickpocket someone and eavesdrop and off you go - taking 
 your useless, ineffectual information and somehow trying to apply it to your assassination. It 
 doesn't work. Non of it does. 
  In fact, it's almost laughable at how un-cool the whole process is. Climbing a viewpoint is good 
 fun, as it has a practical outcome of helping you find your bearings in a new city, but after the 
 35th time, when all you're doing it for is to tick it off the map, it becomes stupidly tedious. 
 The other minigames you're put through in order to gain enough information on your target is to 
 contact an informer and complete a task. Now again, this is a really cool, practical idea, but 
 it's absolutely ruined by the idiocy of the design department. Some flash games have better quests. 
 Here I am in ancient Damascus, as master assassin, and I have to retrieve - no, not gold or jewels, 
 but flags stolen by a local merchant, who has conveniently placed them in a race format across 
 a series of roof tops in the surrounding area. I wanted gritty, deep quests complimented by otherwise 
 simplistic fight gameplay and a tactile environment. I didn't want some ridiculous sort of flag 
 rally better seen in The Simpson's game than a product with the word "Assassin" in the title! It 
 would be okay if this was a one off, but every single task you must complete is exactly the same 
 - repeat poorly designed task to have it book ended by some inanity. You get to the stage where 
 you'll cut off previously saved rape-victim-to-be as she bleats some pre-recorded (and already 
 heard) message in order to mark the next rape victim on your map until you've saved every rape 
 victim or typical helpless scholar in Damascus and subsequently been rewarded by having the streets 
 even more cluttered by almost pointless "helpful" groups of scholars or vigilantes. Note to city 
 guard - groups of 5 scholars or more are suspicious. These groups are almost never used, or if 
 they are it's in a very specific situation, as travelling over the rooftops is by far the more 
 enjoyable prospect that suffering the packed streets. 
  
  The AI in Assassin's Creed is really quite fun - for the most part. While the city around you bustles 
 with life - the guard AI is really very lazy.
  If I was Al-Mualim, head master assassin, the first target I'd assassinate would be the city gym 
 instructor, because they sure do a good job! 
  The AI's ability to follow a crazily fit killing machine as he bounds from light fitting to 50 
 ft beam is commendable, but also ruins any sense of uniqueness your abilities as an assassin. So 
 many times I've run up a wall, bounced to an awning and back onto a beam only to turn around and 
 watch as guards fearlessly follow my exact footsteps in Jet Li style. Apart from their strange 
 acrobatic abilities, the AI is great to watch as each citizen grumbles and makes contextual comments 
 as they go about their daily lives.
  
  
  The combat system in Assassin's Creed is limited in the sense of an assassin, as you stab or throw 
 your enemies to their death. And that's it. Aside from different types of perforation - be it with 
 long, short, thrown or hidden blade - the only way to kill you enemies is to throw them to their 
 death or punch them into unconsciousness. Just like the small tasks set along the road to an assassination, 
 this starts out fun but after a while it becomes tedious in the extreme. I was expecting situational 
 forms of killing, only suggested through the information gathered as part of the required tasks 
 to unlock the assassination. I was expecting to poison the glutton or drop a heavy awning support 
 on the black market dealer, only to make a stealthy getaway. It turns out every assassination is 
 again, just like the rest of the game. You'll approach the target, not at your own choosing, but 
 at a time designated by the information you've gathered - which essentially means having to approach 
 the target just so he can give a long winded example of why he is a badass and why you should kill 
 him. After that, you'll end up stabbing him or chasing him then stabbing him (you rarely have a 
 choice) , triggering a glitch (cutscene) in which EVERY single victim confesses of some higher, 
 noble purpose. 
  This whole process of being locked into a cutscene completely breaks any planning you may have 
 had, as you're forced to react almost immediately after. Fifty percent of the time, this action 
 results in some sort of whole sale street brawl in which you butcher the target and make your getaway 
 until you're safe, only going back to read the information you gathered and realising how it never 
 would have helped you as there is actually no real indication of any effect of such information 
 or help in the game world.
  
  The storyline of Assassin's Creed is terrible to say the least. The problem lies in the bizarre 
 sci-fi element that surrounds your work as an assassin. In reality, it appears, you are a very 
 slow walking (you'll see what I mean) bartender named Desmond, taken captive in order for a large 
 corporation to drill your memory for some past knowledge. Needless to say this would have worked 
 well in a later title or a sci-fi game, but in Assassin' Creed it only helps to distance you further 
 and further from your role as Altair. Mind you, playing Altair is a strange experience. It's as 
 if an atomic bomb had a moral compass. The tale kicks off by revealing how much of an arrogant 
 jerk Altair is. He drawls (in a strange American accent) that he "doesn't make mistakes" as you 
 proceed to butcher anyone you please with little care for the world. He delivers Schwarzenegger 
 worthy lines as he dispatches helpless and terrified interrogation victims who you've spent the 
 last minute beating to a pulp - generally making you hate both your lack of choice and mercy as 
 well as Altair. However, in another strange choice by the developers, Altair's moral compass only 
 wavers as he cradles dying assassination victims (who you've been made to hate) in his arms. 
 
  
  There are so many bad points in Assassin's Creed that the list could go on and on - the stupid 
 flag collecting, the minute "weapon upgrades", the way in which everything is so formulaic and 
 linear etc. The positive aspect, as mentioned above, is the beautiful, tactile environments you 
 can leap, bound and swing over. Just about every other aspect is a boring, inconsequential mini-game 
 that precedes a limiting experience of an actual assassination, interspersed with clips of an over-confusing 
 sci-fi storyline decked out with a fresh set of unlikable characters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maha_Bristol
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  The game is nice.
  
  Graphics are visually stunning but had minor glitches. The cities are realistic and nowhere do 
 you actually see places or walls where you know you are suppose to climb. 
  
  Control is great. Combat is nice and smooth, one shot kill is very satisfying and the counter attacks 
 are fun to play with making you rather difficult to kill. I was amazed how free-running was incorporated 
 into the game, something many of us have probably tried to imitate when we were young. (Play ninja 
 anyone?)
  
  But, after your first few assassinations, you realize that this is going to be repetitive. Save 
 citizens to open up your Vigilantes or Scholars, Climb View points to open the map and find additional 
 objectives, Pickpocket or interrogate to gather additional info. This additional info is something 
 you dont even need. For example, on the first assasination, I just completed one objective and 
 went to the bureau to get authority to complete my assassination. This is one way to speed through 
 the game. Might get more difficult later on but, will be repetative none the less. After first 
 few missions, it's gonna be "been there, done that"
  
  I like the hooded shirt I got with the game tho... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Man, was I psyched. Assassin's Creed had finally arrived in all its glory. This game was hyped 
 to mega proportions and finally I was able to parkour all the way to the bank!
  
  Well, that almost happened.
  
  Assassin's Creed is an extremely ambitious game that had lofty 
 expectations. And like most other super-hyped games, this one, like Halo 3, was on the brink of 
 utter greatness.
  
  First off, combat. Much like the old Prince of Persia games, Ubisoft has stuck with a combat system 
 they know and love. Unfortunately for the gamer, it is a bit lackluster. Overall the system is 
 solid, but doesn't do anything new. And in the end, that could've been a design choice, though. 
 Naturally, assassins shouldn't be in combat much. So maybe Ubisoft intentionally did so to discourage 
 straight combat and just go for the sneaky route. Who knows for sure?
  
  Let me get this out of the way; the A. I sucks. This crowd dynamic Ubisoft tried to do is pretty... okay. 
 But the soldier A. I is just moronic. The mechanic where you have to hide for a certain amount of 
 time before the soldiers will stop chasing you is fine. But it is what's after that is what's annoying. 
 Basically, once the soldiers are given the code to stop looking for the assassin, they completely 
 forget about me later in the game. If Ubisoft really wanted to push good A. I, they should have 
 the soldiers that were chasing you remember you if you walk by them again, or something. That sort 
 of broke the immersive feel for me.
  
  The parkour elements are really well done, though. Ubisoft really make this fun to the player, 
 yet still maintain control of how Altair moved. The animations are glorious and look great. Scaling 
 a tall building is so damn cool!
  
  Overall, the story and sound were also well done. Sound could get very repetitive though. I've 
 heard the phrase, 'This will cost you your life!', far more than I care to admit. But Ubisoft did 
 give the player a feeling of a bustling city with all the chit chatter and other mundane stuff 
 that goes on in a city. Story was a bit out there and strange. But, lets face it, the whole premise 
 is strange and out there.
  
  In the end, Assassin's Creed is a solid action title that really breaks ground with the parkour 
 elements. But is it the A. I masterpiece? Hardly. In fact, I'm starting to doubt the 'crowd dynamic' 
 stuff they told us. But overall, the game is solid and fun to play. And if you play it the way 
 Ubisoft wants you to play it, then you will have a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jontheeditor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  "Wow" is the first word that comes to mind when I now think of Assassin's Creed. Not only is it 
 refreshing to take a break from the onslaught of FPS's that keep pouring out, but to do so with 
 a game as in-depth and amazing as Assassin's Creed.
  
  AC, without a doubt, has the best graphics of any 3rd person action/adventure to date. The worlds 
 are vast, huge and always loaded! It doesn't matter which world you're in just climb to a rooftop 
 and look around. You won't see the familiar fog in the distance that you would see in GTA or a 
 similar game, but instead a large-scale city, in it's entirety (as far as the eye can see anyway.) 
 From the amazing lighting, to the color and textures on buildings and crowd, AC will blow you away 
 at every turn.
  
  The main character, Altar, is one that you'll fall in love with throughout the game (for his actions 
 and words) and I'm sure there will be a Halloween costume of him next year. The cinematic element 
 is one of the coolest features of the game. You don't watch cinematics as you would traditionally, 
 but you instead play them as Altar! Cinematics and game play flow seamlessly together and during 
 them you can still move your character and change camera angles (to a certain extent anyway) . Get 
 ready to break out your acting skills in AC because sometimes it's just fun to dramatically turn 
 and look at the character you're talking to when delivering a line or walk away from them. It really 
 puts you in the game.
  
  As far as game play itself (despite what you might have heard) it does not get old. In fact, I 
 believe it's quite the opposite. As you play you will unlock new weapons and new moves to use on 
 your enemies. Fighting a large group of enemies is challenging at first, but once you get that 
 timing down, you can kick so much but that a few enemies will run away in terror.
  
  AC's controls are very outside the box, and take a while to master. Just give it an hour or two 
 and you'll be jumping across rooftops, silently assassinating guards and blending with the scholars 
 in no time.
  
  The missions are also very compelling and become even more so as the story progresses. You receive 
 a target assignment, but before you can assassinate him, you have several investigations to complete. 
 You can eavesdrop on an important conversation, or beat the information out of someone, or follow 
 and pickpocket a person carrying an important document. Once you have collected enough information, 
 you'll be given a feather to later return with your target's blood on it.
  
  Here's the bottom line. Altar's animations are absolutely flawless and you'll love just watching 
 run across rooftops. The story is compelling and will keep you going until the end. The action 
 is exciting and has that 'C'mon! Let's go! Step up and get dealt with!' feeling to it. The voice 
 acting and music score are also remarkable. You'll want to keep playing AC until the end, and it 
 only leaves you ready for more. Go buy it, now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmjayEclipser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Not too many games get me instantly hooked. Where sleeping becomes second on the priority list. 
 Where eating is due only when famished. I am hooked.. If only this game was able to be fed intravenously. 
 Then my malnourished and sleep deprived body would be able to function properly and I could then 
 become sociable. If only....
  
  I feel that the game play is amazing. The collision detection is a little off, but hard to notice 
 in the midst of a sword fight. The 3D mapping is amazing, close to the best I have ever seen. Graphics 
 are definitely gorgeous. I have not found anything a miss with this game thus far. And even If 
 I had, my rating would not change. Thank you UbiSoft for such an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is purely a pioneer of action/adventure games. The crouds and life in the cities 
 is amazing.
  
  I cant tell you how much work must have gone in to this game.
  The game sucks you in so deep. I was oblivious to the world around me after palying for 20 mins. 
 The draw distance is amazing, the design is so good it sucks you in to the holy land in the role 
 of the assassin.
  This is an absoulute must buy for 360, PS3 or PC owners
  
  
  If you are considering buying this game I believe it is an absolute must!
  
  
  Story:10-The 
 twists in the plot make it a great game
  Gameplay:10-The fighting, oh the fighting, so so good
  Sound:8- some iffy voice sounds that sound 
 sort of muffled
  graphics:10- abosuolutely breathtaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frito_Lay
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the previews of Assassin's Creed, it looked as if we had another "instant classic" 
 in our hands. What looked like a cross between Prince of Persia, Spliter Cell and a hint of Hitman, 
 this game felt like a hit. After playing through the first mission or two, however, I've began 
 to feel the games REPETITIVE behavior. The main character, Altiar, seems to being doing the same 
 types of missions; sneak around, assasinate, and run away.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, I still think this is a GREAT game, I was just hoping for more substance 
 after seeing the impressive trailers.
  
  Things I do love though:
  1) The fighting is easy yet never dull. I could fight a million gaurds and still have a good time 
 slaughtering them all.
  2) The graphics and scenery are vast and compelling. The cities are very interactive and the citizens 
 are very responsive.
  3) Feeling like a ninja.. jumping wildly from building to building as well as pouncing on unsuspecting 
 gaurds.
  
  Hopefully the sequel will fulfill my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnLocke1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Assassination has never been so much fun. Assassin's Creed is one of those games that engage you 
 for hours, leaving you surprised at how long you just played. You are Desmond Miles, a modern-day 
 bartender captured by Abstergo, a drug facility whose workers seem to know more than they are letting 
 on. Two of these workers are your personal attendants, and they hook you up to a machine called 
 the animus, in which most of your game time will be spent. The animus sends Desmond back into your 
 ancestor's memories, taking you to the lush, breathtaking medieval cities of Acre, Jerusalem, and 
 Damascus. 
  
  You become the master assassin Altair, whose responsibility it is to redeem himself for breaking 
 "the creed," which all assassins are supposed to follow. To prove yourself once again to your master, 
 you must assassinate 9 despicable men, which brings us to the main flow of the game. The 3 cities 
 you have access to each have a poor, middle, and rich district with an evil leader to kill in every 
 district. To gather information on your target, you must climb towers of great heights in each 
 district, to reach the "viewpoints" at the top. The viewpoints show you where and how to eavesdrop, 
 interrogate, and pickpocket your way to your main assassination target. The animus lets you go 
 on to the "assassination memory" after gathering only 2-4 of the 6 bits of info possible. However, 
 I found myself chasing after each one, as they make it easier to reach and efficiently kill your 
 target. After killing your target, which is extremely satisfying, you must escape from the city 
 guard. This can be made easier by saving citizens and using the vigilantes produced to block the 
 guards' path, then diving into a pile of hay, jumping in a roof garden, sitting between 2 people 
 on a bench, or blending with scholars to vanish once more. 
  
  As you can imagine, this can get pretty repetitive as the game goes along. Thankfully, a great 
 storyline and fun battle and movement systems keep you guessing, and in that respect, keep the 
 game fun. The subplot of the modern world is strong, and you'll enjoy your time outside of the 
 animus, however brief and peaceful. The one thing I'd say the game lacks is replay value. Trying 
 to find flags hidden throughout each city can be tedious and uninteresting without a target to 
 kill. The ending is (predictably) a cliffhanger, leaving you craving more. Assassin's Creed 2 is 
 sure to be a hit, but the original will be a classic GTA-style game for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiSeven
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game for the following reasons
  
  1. The world is huge and there are many places to explore
  
  2. I didn't have to really do 
 anything within a certain time frame. (There were timed tasks but I could start and stop them whenever 
 I wanted.)
  
  3. The controls were extremely easy to use. 
  
  4. The character acting and storyline was interesting.
  
  5. The graphics were excellent (There 
 are places where you have to climb and jump off of. The graphics were so good at some of these 
 places that my stomach started feeling funny as Altair climbed.)
  
  6. Because of the science fiction aspect to the game. There is a lot that can be done with the 
 story.
  
  7. The fighting cut scenes were really innovative.
  
  There isn't much I would change about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grexxman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Despite what everyone says about this game being a disappointment I feel that it fulfilled my craving 
 for this kind of game and then some. Call me easily impressed but this game has found its own place 
 in my gaming heart. The combination of what I found to be an interestingly intertwined and creative 
 story line, the fighting physics and mechanics, and of course the beautiful graphics display gave 
 me good reason to give this a 10.0. The only thing I found to be disappointing in this game was 
 the repetitiveness that I found in preparing for an assassination mission (this being the interrogation, 
 informer, and pickpocket missions) . However repetitive I found these missions, I could look past 
 them and find myself creating more assassin-like ways of disposing of my target. This is another 
 good thing about the game. There isn't just one way to kill a target. There are as many ways as 
 you can come up with within the limits of getting yourself killed. All in all I consider this game 
 definitely a must have in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avoidiam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've finished the game and while I thought it was fun and worth the time played, it's also 
 got it's share of disappointments.
  
  First the good. There are two seperated but related stories in the game. The outer story as I call 
 it, takes place in present time, or slightly in the future actually. I found it to be pretty corny, 
 although I did like the twist at the end. The inner story takes place around 1191. This story was 
 okay, although nothing special. I also liked that Ubisoft wasn't scared to make religion part of 
 the story.
  
  ....
  
  Check out my full review which focuses on design at http://dogmaticgamer. blogspot. com.
  
  Thanks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS2244
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I had big expectations of this game, first of all since its Ubi Soft and they know how to make 
 a game. But with Assassin's Creed something went wrong along the way of developing. Yes... the game 
 looks stunning and beautiful with 3 massive lifely cities to walk around in and explore. But what 
 if there is not a damn thing to do in those cities, what do you do then?? well in my case rush 
 through the game before i get to annoyed and quit playing. You go to a city to assasinate a target, 
 but first you'll have to gather info on his whereabouts etc. But the way you do this is really 
 stupid. You do an eavesdrop on two people talking, you pickpocket someone and beat some guy till 
 he tells you something and then kill him. Then its time to go for the actual assasination. You 
 can continue and climb all the towers and unveil the whole map, or help all the citizens in trouble, 
 but trust me after 20 times of both you'll grow tired of it. But then maybe collect flags... yes.. yes 
 collect flags hidden around in the cities, what a blast. Nope once you killed the first 2 tagets 
 and have about 8 to go you'll pretty much rush trough the information gathering part as its the 
 same every time. Then the actual assasination.. well, there are 2 ways to do yes 2 ways soo much 
 choice, either kill him silently or noisy, but both ways dont make any difference of the outcome 
 as the whole city will be on alert and chasing you.... well attempting since the A. I is crap aswell 
 with guards not looking further then there nose is long. So then what is left to keep you interested 
 in the game, is the story. This is pretty much well done altough you see the ending coming from 
 a mile, just your classic betrayal story really.
  So in the end what you get is a game that looks truly stunning, and has some of the best animations 
 i've ever seen, but lacks gameplay and A. I and is very repetitive but has a basic ok story. Could've 
 been so much more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tailz100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  First up, no i havent completed the game, im somewhere in the 4th memory block i think. But already 
 the game has started to get alittle repetitive, u get ur mission, u save a few citizens, in the 
 same way each time, u pickpocket a fella, eavesdrop, a convo, climb some buildings then assassinate 
 your target. Then u go all the way back to the tower place, get another mission, and do a pointless 
 horse ride to your next destination!
  
  Bad start eh? Dont get me wrong Assassins Creed is a brilliant game. Graphics are arguably the 
 best ive ever seen, the cities are beautiful and vast, animation is impressive, im also a big fan 
 of the combat system. I think it works really well, altho i would prefer if the guards sometimes 
 attack quicker, its abit dull when ur surrounded by 10 guards, yet they all stand there for a minute. 
 But when the action starts it doesnt stop, the moves are fun and pretty brutal, also timing your 
 attacks is quite gd, annnnd when in a little cinematic u can add extra attacks which is a original 
 feature. 
  
  Difficulty is fairly mediumish, u wont always be dying and running for your life, but u wont exactly 
 always stand your ground. Also the game actually improves as u go on, u learn more moves which 
 make fighting more fun and interesting.
  
  Free running - One of the best features of the game, love it. Just so movie like when your being 
 chased down by ten guards after assassinating your target, then u jump through market stalls do 
 a matrix run up walls and huge jumps. Its not to difficult either and makes u look like a pro.
 
  
  
  Short lil review i know ive missed out alot of the content, make that most of it, but i jst wanted 
 to get a little message across really.
  
  Assassins creed is a great game worth buying and enjoying... over time. But no , itis not the best 
 ever game like many have said.
  
  (oh and by the way, jumping of buildings onto the shoulders of a guard, and stabbing him in the 
 neck with your hidden blade (y) pretty cool!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very innovative game, allowing the player to jump from building to building 
 with the push of a button. This comes in handy when you get in a fight that is just too big for 
 you on your own. Sneaking around and killing lone guards is one of the main actions you can do 
 in this game. However, the main point of this game is to assassinate "the bad guy" in order to 
 release their tight grip on the peasants in their city. One of the ways to find out when and where 
 to strike, you must pickpocket a certain someone who has a plan written on a piece of paper in 
 their pocket. Another is to follow them to an area with no one else in it, and beat the information 
 out of it. This makes for interesting gameplay and actually interests you in the story.
  
  Graphics: Unbelievable. The commercial graphics are only just 1 tiny step above those of the in-game 
 graphics.
  
  Multiplayer: None.
  
  Sound: Well Integrated. Situations around you can be monitored by paying attention to your speakers. 
 If Guards see you sprinting around the city, they will ask "Is he running from someone?", and then 
 pay much much closer attention to you.
  
  Controls: Running around, and fighting, both have a good setup on the Xbox 360 controller. The 
 jumping from building to building works correctly about 95% of the time, but then sometimes gets 
 you killed.
  
  Overall: The game is relatively short, and this is a god amongst rentals, but a peasant among buying. 
 Unless you are planning to get all 1000 gamerscore from this game, I strongly recommend renting 
 Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degs
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game had amazing environments and some great fighting scenes and top notch graphics and sound. 
 But besides that I really have nothing positive to say about assassin's creed. The missions you 
 go on are all kind of dumb and are not challenging except maybe the some of the later informant 
 missions.
  I also have to say this game is EXTREAMLY repetitive, and the storyline is kinda weak, especially 
 the ending
  
  This game was clearly rushed out for the holidays
  
  Also I have to say I generally agree with most of the gamespots reviews but either they only played 
 the game for the first few levels or just got caught up in the hype because there is no way this 
 game dissevered a editors choice review
  
  This game is a definite rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Team_Io
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Some hard-core stealth fans may not want this game because of the fact there is no normal stealth 
 system that can be seen. There is a social stealth system (meaning that if you do something stupid 
 i. e. climb up a wall or run around the guards will be suspicious or aware) . Problems may arise 
 for some people with this system for example if you walk were an objective is the guard is they 
 will skip suspicious and go straight to alert which is basically the games way of saying "you have 
 a 10 second head start on the guards unless you "blend". Another problem with the social system 
 is that you have to run from the guards and find a "hide spot" while running you will have to look 
 in two places in front of Altair and for a hide spot which is neigh - impossible. A few more problems 
 before I get to the good parts one of the last few problems is the fact that the large amount of 
 drunk people running the streets who will knock you out of blend and then the guard discover you. 
 Now on to the good parts of the game the weapon selection is quite good when you get to the second 
 mission (a word of advice the throwing knives suck if you don't know how to use them) . Weapon balance 
 is good one will realize that the short sword delivers quicker attacks but has a shorter reach 
 than the sword which delivers more reach behind strikes. The hidden blade is almost useless in 
 toe 2 toe fights (not instant death in this game) unless you throw someone and then kill them. 
 While the people notice you parkoring up a building they fail to notice you kill a guards in the 
 middle of the street. Over all it is a very good game and I would recommended buying for PS3 or 
 Xbox360 though I have only played the 360 version I believe they are the same. I only have one 
 other problem with the game the ending Sucks the Biggest ****ing **** in all of gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom-4112
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed can only be described in one word: masterpiece. This game is so good, it won't 
 be topped for at least a couple years. I'm not saying that its perfect, no game is, but this is 
 damn close. I wish that I could rate a 9.8 on the tracker, because that is what I would really 
 rate it.
  
  Pros: This game has so much good, it's crazy. First off, the controls are tight as hell. It's a 
 pleasure to jump from roof to roof, and I feel a sense of accomplishment when I scale the particularly 
 hard sync points. the combat is fun, and the counter kills are sweet to watch. I think that I can 
 safely say that this is the first sandbox game where I don't feel that the world is synthetic. 
 The people have o set pattern, and they do things like stop at stalls, talk to each other and exclaim 
 about how weird it is that you are climbing a building. There is much more that I love about this 
 game, But I want to keep this review short, so onto the cons.
  
  Cons: There are so few of these, because this game doesn't have many. The first is that once in 
 a while, the frame rate will stutter. Also, the people in the world don't have the smoothest of 
 animations, but that is forgivable since there is so many of them. Also, there should be much more 
 repercussions for doing something socially unacceptable. Like, instead of killing you, the guards 
 put you in jail, and you have to escape, and every time you brake out you get exposed faster, and 
 put in a prison harder to break out of. Eventually, instead of arresting you, they will just kill 
 you and you have to start the investigation all over. another small complaint is that the ending 
 is confusing, even if you wait till the end of the credits. It was a little short though, even 
 with all the collectibles.
  
  All in all, this game is one of the greatest games of all time, and deserves game of the year. 
 There are a few problems, but the pros greatly outweigh the cons and there are some more games 
 coming in the series, so they should become better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutoman786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  I loved this game! It was incredible, the graphics alone were beautiful. The gameplay was fairly 
 easy. The controls were simple and I liked them but they could have made more controls, you know 
 for more combos. Assasinating people was a little trickey at first. The archers were anoying. How 
 the hell can people throw rocks at you if your 100ft. in the air. At the ending it really pissed 
 me off, when you fight the luitennant. First, if you played the game you would know, you have to 
 fight the Lt.'s men. When they hit you they take down not 1 but 2 bars of health, thats insane!! 
 I finally managed to get to the Lt., but he killed me cause my health was soo low. I managed to 
 kill him after the 4th fricken time. Then, ohboy, you have to fight everyone of the persons' you 
 assasinate throughout the game. Afterwards you can go back into the game and get the acheivements 
 you been bighting your nails over. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxRyoxX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  The story to me is a little short but just killing people with a hidden blade and the combat system 
 is amazing.. Also the graphics of this game is just plain stunning ( with few graphic glitches 
 ) . Also I never ever would of guessed the ending even if someone gave me a little hint.. This game 
 makes you wanting to know what is really going on. Also just scaling a wall or rapidly dashing 
 through a crowd to get away from a swarm of guards is fun to do ^.^ . I definitly recommend this 
 game to everyone. Just because of how awesome this game is and all the different things you can 
 do within the game is just plain fun :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiru_pwner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Assasin's Creed is an amazing game. As 90% of games, it has some graphical errors, and maybe some 
 glitches, but the overall gameplay, and storyline makes this forgivable. 
  
  You get huge amounts of different options, where you can travel through every rooftop, and basically 
 touch and use any thing that is more than 2 inches long. This makes the gaming experience amazing, 
 because you choose your own escape routs and methods, whether you jump on a haystack or hide between 
 monks you will stop being "wanted"
  
  The game does have some AI Problems, for example, you kill a guard, with your hidden blade. (There 
 is another guard 2 meters away) and hide in a corner, 2 seconds later, the guard forgot who you 
 he saw next to the dead guard when he died, and then you kill him.
  
  I wont talk about the storyline, because it is too good to be spoiled. I Must stay, this game is 
 a MUST for every Ubisoft fan, action fan, or just those looking to buy a new gaming experience.
 
  
  Please comment about this review in my email
  
  firu, ac@gmail. com
  
  -Hiru
  
  www. archonsascendant. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col_Panda-BSUK-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  A very fun and addictive game to begin but with a very predictable storyline from the early begginning 
 WARNING SPOILER I suspected that the master was a bad guy. The bits with desmond are almost pointless 
 as its slow paced and getting into places just reveals more of the highly predictable outcome. 
 It is one of the easiest games i have ever played and when you get the counter move you are near 
 invincible. If youre dedicated though the game can take up alot of your time as there are lots 
 of flags to collect, templars to kill and reach points. It feels a bit the same at times but altogether 
 a good game but it is lacking a certain something. I hope that AC2 will be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TastyLarry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay is the best. The controls are fluid as water, and the story is incredible. Where else 
 can you go back in time and erase famous people that really existed once. SOO cool. The only thing 
 that is a little strange is the whole Sci-Fi aspect of it. But people will get over it and it doesnt 
 kill the gameplay.. It, however good would be better if it had some online function with a multiplayer 
 aspect. The other thing would be to incorporate a few differing assasination moves , depending 
 on whether you are around the side or above the enemy. Sort of Tenchu style. But i dont make them, 
 i just play the crap out of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berio2toru
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  At first, the signs where good, that this would be a classic. That the twists and turns of the 
 narrative would be compelling, but it just didn't climax. It just didn't make me reach an organism 
 like the Halo series or Hitman series did. I can't believe it. I actually bought my 360 because 
 Assassin's Creed came with the package. 
  
  Visually, the sets are stunning. Audio is top notch with the ambient noise of people. Killing your 
 targets and stealth-ing away is awesome. But its lacking something. The NPC's, whilst amazing that 
 there a loads of them about and the fact you can take anyone of them out seem sluggish and how 
 can I say this; clone-ish.
  
  Doing the jobs are satisfying and whilst lurking around is cool there are some graphical glitches 
 which stop this game becoming an instant classic. What bugs me, which I assume some of you guys 
 who have played this have figured, is that you can climb anything in the city, climb to the highest 
 tower and do acrobatic stunts but you just can't climb a simple olive tree. Why, why, WHY?? 
  
  That aside its a great game, but the hype and marketing promised me the world, and I feel a 
 bit let down by this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFBCxkiller7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  this game is 5 times better then halo 3 single player and the way u run a jump and stab the guards 
 or civillians is the best ever or the way u can sit on the roofs of house, stores, castles, is just 
 crazy i, ve always hopet that some one would make a masterpiece such as this game its additive and 
 fun to play over and over this game is my altime favorite game ever i give it a 10-10 (masterpiece) 
 incredible and the way u can counter the enemy atacks and kill them or knock them down and if u 
 knock them down use ur hidden blade to stab them in the neck to finish the kill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mic26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  Great Movement Mechanics but not much else.... fighting is ok but POP had more fluid fighting motions 
 and the story is confusing and boring as hell, not much else to it.... found myself just wanting 
 to finish the game and be done with it
  
  It has so many flaws. 
  
  simplistic gameplay; no variety in missions; confusing and boring story; but i guess the most disapointing 
 thing is that it could have a been a abosolute blinder but they seems to concentrate on movement 
 more than anything else..
  although that is definelty the most fun part of the game. graphics are good and controls feel sweet!
 
  
  
  How did gamespot give this game a 9????
  
  Looks like some Assassins Creed merchandise is on the way to gamespot!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3602gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  I keep this short, the future twist seems misplaced, but set up the plot rather nicely, and makes 
 sense as the game goes on, which brings us to the story, great story with each mission you gain 
 a little info about your purpose, but even a greater deal of you and ancestor's purpose and it 
 continues through out the game.
  and now for the game, everyone complains about the copy and paste style of this game. If it's fun 
 and doesn't get old is it still repetitive, no I thought not. you scale buildings to get a view 
 of the gigantic cities, collect info on your targets, save others who in return help you. Assassinate 
 targets with your hidden blade and then flee from the great number of guards. 
  Next the combat when ever you swing your sword you feel the great deal of power behind it, once 
 you unlock the counter kills and short blade the combat becomes something of endless fun, able 
 to tackle 20 guards is quite something. You also get throwing knives, which drop guards or whoever 
 at the drop of a hat. 
  so if you don't like having a hidden blade, assassinating people in silence, in front of everyone, 
 great and powerful sword fighting, climbing anything and everything you see, horse riding, great 
 stories, the Crusades, Assassins, and looking like a bad a## then by all means don't by this game, 
 but if you do then go out and buy it or at least give it a rent, well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RouletteDares12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most fun games I have played in awhile. It was a nice breath of 
 fresh air from all the FPSs that have been coming out. Don't get me wrong COD4 is awesome but I 
 needed something different. The gameplay for AC is outstanding. The combat is simple but it works 
 for the game. The real fun comes in when you have to try and run away from the authorities. Finding 
 a pathway to the closest hiding spot is made great by the fact that you can use any part of the 
 environment to help you. The few shortcomings that this game does have can be overlooked because 
 of the rest of the game. This is definitely a game that everyone should give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidlhc
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed gives a whole new meaning to the word "game". It is easily the best game I've 
 ever played, and I have played a lot of games. My favorite thing in this game is........ EVERYTHING. 
 Everything in this game is amazing on your eyes and ears. You can climb almost ANYTHING, you can 
 go ANYWHERE you see. The graphics are truly next gen like you haven't seen before. The only things 
 that might make you a little upset is the fighting system, and the face that the game will take 
 you just a few days to beat. You will want to play the game over again. The fighting system isn't 
 all that bad, it's just it gets old quickly. Overall like I said before this is the best game I 
 have EVER played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okaystick
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed. When I first loaded the game in my X-BOX 360 I was excited. Ready to play a game 
 which seemed like it had so much promise. I was expecting it to deliver in so many ways. What the 
 game does well it does very well. Graphically it is stunning. Everything is displayed with vibrant 
 detail. Many times I found myself stopping Altair at the top of some towering height and gazing 
 off into the vastness of each level. Running and jumping from roof top to towering roof time never 
 became stale. Small nuances like the eagles flying in the distance and the citizens of each city 
 make the game seem alive. Almost. 
  Fighting in the game is at first not very impressive. That is of course until you have unlocked 
 all the different combinations that are available to Altair. Yet even with each unlockable technique 
 after fighting the same enemies over and over the game starts to feel like a welcome break is needed 
 to add a little more jazz to the attack sequences. Often times I found myself running from every 
 guard, never stopping to defend or attack any guard foolish enough to attack me just to add excitement 
 to the game. Once I unlocked the achievements for each different style of attacking I no longer 
 found a need to waste my time slaughtering every helpless guard who stood in my way. 
  The game truly suffers though due to the repetitive stages. Each mission is wasted away with eavesdropping, 
 pickpocketing, and beating down the town crier spilling lies from his tongue, over and over again. 
 And after doing it for each and every stage I did something that I haven't done ever to a game 
 that was rated by many, in high regards. I yawned. The game was boring and although it had one 
 of the most impressive "make me want to play the next game to see how it all plays out ," story 
 it just was'nt enough for me to rate as one of the best games I have ever played. 
  Wonderful graphics, a very intriguing story, roof top leaping fanatics, yet the repetitive game 
 forces me to give at a lower rating then necessary. Sorry Assassin's Creed fan's, the game does 
 not live up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  There are games that you either love, or you hate. Assassin's Creed, a new next generation game 
 developed and published by Ubisoft, is a perfect example on how there can be so much different 
 opinions on one game. If you have ever heard of the Hitman series, you pretty much know what the 
 main deal is with this game: assassinate specific target in order to complete your task. But unlike 
 Hitman, Assassin's Creed takes place not during present time, but at 1191 AD, a long time ago. 
 Assassin's Creed was hyped up as a true next-gen gaming experience, and Ubisoft really wanted to 
 stress that this is going to be a really great game. But does it really take a leap forward in 
 the next-gen, or does it just stay stationary?
  
  You play as Altair, an assassin and a warrior known across the globe as a true assassin, and is 
 feared by most. Like I said before, the game takes place in 1191 AD, and the Third Crusade is tearing 
 the Holy Land apart. There are 9 targets that you must take down across 4 different and unique 
 cities like Jerusalem and Acre. But what do all of these people have in common, and why must they 
 be assassinated? That's for you to find out. There's also a whole other part the story, but giving 
 it away would spoil the whole game, even though you do find out about this in like the first 10 
 seconds of the game. There's also a huge cliff hanger ending, which obviously means there will 
 be a sequel in years to come.
  
  But what is so next-gen about Assassin's Creed? Well, Ubisoft really wanted to stress that each 
 place will seem like a real breathing city, like it would've been in real life. And like Ubisoft 
 said, there are people everywhere. Every ally you go down has merchants trying as hard as they 
 can to sell things to make a living. The next ally would have 3 drunk guys trying to cause trouble, 
 and the next ally would have beggars trying to get some money for food or anything, and around 
 each corner is a guard. This is really cool about Assassin's Creed. No matter where you go, there 
 is someone there to see you. You will almost never be somewhere where someone isn't. The only thing 
 that's not so great about this is that barely anyone are actually doing anything. Sure, drunk people 
 are standing outside of a bar because they're drunk, but they will stand there forever. People 
 will just walk around doing nothing. None of the buildings have doors, you can't enter any houses 
 what-so-ever.
  
  The climbing in Assassin's Creed is the most fun part of the game, and this is also introduced 
 as a next-gen part of the game. While controlling Altair, you can hold the A button to blend in 
 with the crowd so the guards don't get suspicious of you. While not holding anything, you will 
 be in normal mode, and the guards usually wont be suspicious of you, but of you knock someone over 
 by an accident, they will take notice. Holding the B button will allow you to gently push people 
 out of the way. So say a women is holding a pot on her head, if you gently push her out of the 
 way, she wont drop the pot, but if you walk into her, she will jump out of the way and her pot 
 will smash on the ground and the guards will take notice.
  
  You can also hold the right trigger (or R2 on the PS3) and Altair will go into high profile mode, 
 and this is where Assassin's Creed becomes a blast to play. While holding the right trigger, you 
 will start to sprint, and while holding both the trigger and the A button, he will start running. 
 The A button will make you jump on things, and it will also make you climb walls. Pressing the 
 A button down with make you jump, but if you hold it down and run of a ledge, he'll jump automatically. 
 Every building in each city actually look like they would back that long ago, but you wouldn't 
 actually think you could climb each and every one, but in Assassin's Creed, you can. Every little 
 divot sticking out of a building is climbable, not matter what. If a window is below a merchant's 
 stand, you can climb it. You can also jump from building to building easily. Just hold both the 
 trigger and a the A buttons, and just control where you want Altair to go, and he'll go there, 
 even if it means jumping from a roof to another roof.
  
  Climbing is probably the main part of Assassin's Creed, and at the top of each tall building is 
 a high point, where you need to go in order to scope out the whole area you are in. You can see 
 where all of the things that are happening around the city, and these things are necessary in order 
 to assassinate each target. There are a bunch of different things you can do: pick pocket, interrogate, 
 save a civilian, get information from an informer, or eavesdrop on a conversation. All of these 
 aren't exactly necessary to complete all of your assassinations, but you are definitely better 
 off if you do complete them.
  
  Combat is a necessity in Assassin's Creed, even if you're mostly trying to sneak around. You have 
 4 fighting styles: fists, sword, short sword & throwing knives, and your assassin's knife. You 
 fists are mostly used for interrogations, and the assassin's knife is used to silently assassinate 
 guards and your targets. You short sword and regular sword are used for fighting guards, and when 
 you have you short sword equipped, and you're targeted at a far away enemy, Altair will throw a 
 knife at them, which is a one-hit kill. While fighting guards, which you will mostly fight many 
 at once, is actually a lot easier than it looks. Holding the right trigger, while locked on to 
 a target with the L trigger, will block enemy attacks. Pressing the X button without holding the 
 block button will swing your sword, and pressing it while holding down the block button will do 
 a counter attack, but in order to perform a counter attack, your enemy will have to swing first, 
 and you must try to reverse him. If you swing your sword and the enemy blocks, you can quickly 
 press the X button again, and Altair will do a combo attack. After eliminating a bunch of guards, 
 sometimes the rest of the guards will run away in fear.
  
  It's not easy to die in Assassin's Creed, which really isn't that bad, but accidentally falling 
 off a building and dying when you hit the ground can sometimes get irritating. Altair has a health 
 bar at the top left of the screen. When you get hit, you lose a bar, and after all of your bars 
 are gone, you will have to run for your life because if you get hit one more time, you'll die. 
 Beside the health bars is a Synchronization metre which will blink red if a guard is suspicious 
 of you. When the guards know you are an assassin, the whole metre with turn red. When the guards 
 can't find you the metre will go orange, and by hiding in a bail of hay, or sitting on a bench, 
 it will turn green. Climbing on roofs is the easiest way to not bother anyone, and it is better 
 to do this so guards wont get suspicious of you.
  
  Did I mention that Assassin's Creed looks awesome? Ubisoft must have taken a very long time to 
 try to make each and every part of the game look amazing. Every building in each city is great, 
 and even the Kingdom which is the world in between each city is also beautiful. All of the characters 
 have superb animations, and the blood effects are intense. But I did notice that no matter how 
 long you play, it will never be night time. It's not that bad, but weird. There are some collision 
 detection problems her and there though, and sometimes guards will get stuck on a ladder and such, 
 but those things are forgivable because of such a beautiful and breathtaking environments. The 
 sounds is also top-notch. All the music is great and always fits the mood. When you're getting 
 chased by some guards, there's intense battle music in the background. When you're starring right 
 at your target while he talks to the crowd, there's a perfect melody playing in the background 
 like something is about to go down.
  
  Assassin's Creed will probably take most players about 15 to 20 hours to complete, but it really 
 is an estimation because it never tells you in the game. There are a ton of side missions to do 
 like collecting flags (which there are 100 of in each main city) and 60 Templar's scattered around 
 the world for you to kill. Mix all of these in with the main quest, and a bunch of clever achievements, 
 you have a meaty package. I don't like how there are so many flags to collect, but they're fun 
 to collect, and the Templar's are a blast to try and kill.
  
  Overall though, Assassin's Creed is an outstanding game. If you were to ask me which side I was 
 on, I would say the good side, because Assassin's Creed is an amazing game, and I hope it's only 
 a taste of what Ubisoft has in store with this newly made franchise. The combat is fun, climbing 
 and jumping across buildings feels great, and the story is as epic as they come. There are some 
 gripes here and there, but overall, Assassin's Creed is a great buy and shouldn't be missed by 
 anyone with a 360 or a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, first off. The games gameplay mechanics and the way they move is very realistic. 
 The assassinations are very satisfying b/c your putting a very horrible person to death in a very 
 cool and in a true assassin's way. The story is very appealing and eventually becomes very very 
 interesting. The controls are just perfect and well made. The combat doesn't get repetitive and 
 becomes more exciting with the more enemies you face at a time. Plus, the extra side missions you 
 do are very fun and addicting as well. All the story missions are basically the same every time 
 you go to a new city, but they become more challenging and harder to pull off every time. A must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffe_neo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a true gem. It plays like a Prince of Persia on steroids but there are some 
 many unique features to this game that a comparison just doesn't do it any justice. You will not 
 get many opportunities to play a game which offers as much as Assassin's Creed and you should not 
 pass up any opportunity to play this masterpiece.
  
  The Holiday season sees the market flooded with games and all of us find it difficult to make choices 
 on what is going to be in our collections. Assassin's Creed is definitely going to be in your collection 
 this year, if you bypass this game you do not know what you are missing out on.
  
  A quick summary.
  
  Pros
  
  * Intense combat with beautiful animations and plenty of gore!
 
  * A realisitic climbing mechanic.
  * Excellent storyline.
  * Incredible graphics, sound and controls.
  
  Cons
  
  * Camera is sometimes a little unfriendly 
 in fights.
  * You can't swim!
  * Investigation sequence is a little repetative.
  * You have to wait for Assassin's Creed 2 to find out what happens next!
  
  In summary, don't 
 miss out on Assassin's Creed. Games this good don't come along all the time and you should do yourself 
 a favour and treat your senses to this excellent title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttons1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed truly lives up to the hype. With outstanding graphics it is sure to be an instant 
 classic, And most certainlly a beat seller for the holiday season.
  The Good:
  Assassin's creed delevirs amazing graphic's while it also maintain's to keep the game from being 
 to bright or to dark. The game is also based on real historical events, town's, and people. Though 
 not as big as other adventure or rpg games such as oblivion or two worlds, the game still provides 
 a large world for you to galiop by horse, walk, run, or jump through,
  Assassin's creed will keep you coming back for more and more. The sound effect's and voice acting 
 is also outstanding. Though The assassin you control sounds like he is very week, but this is only 
 because the rest is so good.
  The Bad:
  At the end of the game you will be surprised by an awful cliffhanger suggest for an Assassin's 
 Creed 2. As well as a few graphicel glith's. This is truly a must play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndlessGame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is truly a masterpiece. Ubisoft Montreal's experience in working on Prince of 
 Persia games has been put to good use in this next generation game. As a new franchise, it excels 
 in standing out from others, making solid improvements, but not losing its link to the genre.
 
  
  As one would expect from an action adventure game, you, Altair, spend most of your time running 
 from one objective to another, trying to further the storyline by completing the tasks set out 
 before you. As a member of the Hashshashin, an organization of "noble" assassins that seek the 
 rid the Holy Land of corruption, the object of the game is inevitably to slay the nine figureheads 
 who are propagating the crusades. A majority of your time will be spent playing as Altair, in 1191 
 A. D. However, a small portion of the game also lies in the present, as does the driving force of 
 its story.
  
  An involving storyline depicting a descendant of Altair, Desmond Miles, sits in the background 
 as you run through the expansive terrains present during the Third Crusade. The world itself is 
 massive. Boasting expansive and varied terrain types, from the wide open areas of the Kingdom, 
 to the confined alleyways of Damascus, Assassin's Creed has a variety of locations to explore, 
 all of which are equally as stunning to look at.
  
  The graphics in Assassin's Creed have a lot of ups, but unfortunately a few downs as well. With 
 detailed textures on every surface, each building you climb will seem unique; every character you 
 see wearing extremely detailed clothing. However, it is on the characters that one of the game's 
 few flaws show up. Noticeably jagged edges appear on the characters, such as Al Mualim's beard, 
 and occasionally Altair's hood. Luckily, when in motion, as it is almost constantly, these imperfections 
 are invisible, the smooth animations and expansive views easily overshadowing them.
  
  Where Assassin's Creed truly shines is gameplay. Once accustomed to the controls, which admittedly 
 can take longer than most games, Altair moves swiftly and seamlessly from one rooftop to the next, 
 grabbing windows and ledges, climbing with an extremely realistic purposefulness about his movements. 
 Being able to move quickly across the city is essential when escaping from the plentiful guards 
 patrolling the area, searching for an assassin to run their blades through. Controlling these movements 
 require deceptively small numbers of commands, but still retain a challenging element in dealing 
 with the terrain.
  
  The game loads in between cinematics and when traveling between cities. These loading times can 
 be quite long, however, once inside, you are free to run from one end of the city to the other 
 without pause, from the tallest spire to the lowest alleyway. The game's system of revealing your 
 map, which involves scaling tall buildings and surveying the area, is both inventive and impressive. 
 The panoramic view that displays as Altair casts his eyes around is stunning, countless buildings 
 of varying designs as far as the eye can see. Once finished, you can simply jump, taking the famous 
 leap of faith, Altair lands safely in a pile of hay below.
  
  Controlling Altair, both normally and while in combat, can take some getting used to. Actions can 
 be split up into two different types: low-profile and high-profile. Low profile movements are simple, 
 socially acceptable actions, like walking around and gently pushing people aside as you walk through 
 a crowd. Guards, unless informed of an assassin nearby, are unlikely to take any interest in you 
 while you're in low-profile. Should guards be looking for you, a simple press of the A button, 
 and Altair "blends". Bowing his head and clasping his hands, the assassin passes himself off as 
 a monk, easily walking past most enemies without any problems. High-profile actions, such as running 
 and using your weapons, are likely to draw the guards' attention. To switch into high-profile mode 
 and perform such actions, you simply hold the right trigger, and any of your more aggressive actions 
 are only one more button away.
  
  Combat can seem quirky at first, as though it isn't working properly. However, once you've gotten 
 used to the controls, you'll be parrying, countering, and cutting down enemies left and right, 
 transitioning seamlessly from one attack to the next. Some inevitable visual glitches show up when 
 performing certain attacks on an enemy who is backed up against a wall. And the game seems only 
 to apply physics to a body after it has finished its dying animation. So that can result in a floating 
 guard for a second or so before he "finishes dying" and falls into the street below, letting everyone 
 know you're there.
  
  Stealth, namely hiding in plain sight, is important as well. While later in the game you'll be 
 able to take on large number of guards at once, the start will have you relatively weak, and avoiding 
 combat with large numbers of enemies will be very important. The game fortunately has an effective 
 status system as part of its HUD which shows you if an enemy nearby is suspicious of you, allowing 
 you to adjust your actions accordingly. The health bar, in the form of Desmond's synchronization 
 to Altair, is simply a series of blocks which dim when damage is inflicted on your character. Death 
 results in going back to the last time you saved. Assassin's Creed has no manual save function. 
 Instead, it autosaves every time you pass between areas, complete a mission objective, kill a templar, 
 or collect a flag.
  
  The mission objectives vary from pickpocketing items to eavesdropping on people for information 
 on your assassination target. There are sixty templars, scattered randomly throughout the entire 
 game, who can be killed as a kind of side quest. (Killing all of them will earn you an achievement.) 
 The flags are similar, scattered throughout the world for you to collect as a side mission. Flags 
 however, simply require collecting, rather than battling, and number in the hundreds. The achievements 
 for collecting them are broken down into the areas in which they are collected.
  
  Brilliant and often subtle sound effects add to cinematic feel of the game as a whole. From the 
 sound of a sword being sheathed, either in a scabbard or an enemy, to the thud of Altair's boots 
 striking stone as he leaps from a rooftop, Assassin's Creed goes to great lengths to make the player 
 feel as though they really are the main character. A suitable score of stylized music accompanies 
 the game's action and intensity, varying appropriately from tense cinematics to thrilling combat 
 scenes and setting the tone exactly as it should.
  
  While there are numerous more things to say about this game, it is safe to say here that it is 
 indeed well worth buying. Approximately thirty hours long if played fully, likely shorter if rushed, 
 this game is an amazing single-player experience. A must-have for action adventure fans, and definitely 
 a must-try for everyone else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyp45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a good game. Playing in the ancient middle eastern towns gives you a taste of 
 what is was like back in the third crusade. The story line of the game is also pretty awesome. 
 There are a few downsides though. Starting with that all side missions pretty much have the same 
 story behind it. The civilians always say 1 out of 4 things when you save them. The same thing 
 with the main missions. You have to do the same exact thing in every single town. So in conclusion, 
 AWESOME graphics, AWESOME fighting, and etc etc.. but a bit too repetitive, so advice is to rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRevanent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that has wonderful and interesting elements but those elements 
 are held back by repetition. As soon as the game starts you are immersed in a fantastic universe 
 with lots of cool things to see and do, wanna climb that tower go ahead, wanna throw that guard 
 off a cliff fine, etc. The only problem is after doing all of these things a few times the game 
 starts to feel like treadmill, around and around, there are only a few different types of missions 
 to complete and though they are fun they also get very repetitive. I would suggest giving this 
 one a rental before you buy it, it is a wonderful achievement in gaming but some people may tire 
 of it after just a few hours of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmp1786
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Incredibly, Assassin's Creed is one of the first game's I've purchased with the power to both amaze 
 and yet completely bore at the same time. Within minutes of picking up the controller and getting 
 involved in the grand scheme that is becoming a leading assassin of the ancient guild I found myself 
 searching for more... and search I did. However, this was almost always to no avail. The missions 
 (there are nine) captivate for the first two or three, but ultimately play repetetively. The swordplay, 
 although looking brilliant throughout, is extremely easy to both learn and perfect, given the enemies 
 are inept at fighting any scenario larger than a one-on-one. 
  
  However, the game does offer a lot of positives, such as an incredibly rich looking environment 
 that spans quite a large distance, though this environment fails to offer the diversity and depth 
 one would expect from a next generation game. For example, although the cities look wonderful, 
 they all provide the same basic layout, with the same buildings, non-main characters, and gameplay. 
 As the Assassin you can scale practically any building or structure, yet are left feeling a sort 
 of emptiness for not being able to enter many buildings or interact with much of the environment. 
 
  
  I'd recommend renting this game before buying; the fun of leaping over the buildings with fluid 
 motion time and time again becomes repetitive, as does all the other gameplay as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deft2121
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game by my standards. The game is very fun to play, and once you start 
 playing you don't want to stop. The control scheme fits perfectly with the style of the game. By 
 today's standards the game may be "easy" the game could use an extra difficulty of some sort just 
 for the replay value. The game is a very relaxed action game, it is very addicting, but the replay 
 value of the game after it is completed is questionable. 
  
  The Good:
  Great control scheme
  Highly addictive
  Something new
  Amazing visuals
  Presentation is 
 astounding 
  
  The Bad:
  Could be a bit longer
  Maybe a little bit too easy
  
  Overall:
  Excellent game, definitely worth playing, must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floorcommando
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game ain't bad at all . I usually read the worst reviews with the low scores first to see 
 what i could be wasting money on but after reading the negatives i gotta say man this is a cool 
 adventure game, stories got me goin, gaphics are awesome, definately 360 . What pissed me off is 
 i almost didn't buy this because of the negative reviews. I like gamespot because it posts new and 
 upcoming games but most of the time i don't trust their review . If you like adventure games without 
 all the role playing crap this one is a slam dunk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay gets a lot better as you go through the game since you upgrade rank and 
 therefore get more weapons, gear etc. but basicly you can climb literally any building! Thats never 
 been done in any game i dont think. Its so fun, sword fighting is actually pretty good, assassinating 
 people stealthy is awsome cause it feels so rewarding. The game taked off where your a really experinced 
 but also lazy assassin and you get stripped of your rank cause you screwed up (no details) and 
 then you have to start all over by losing everything and doing (female dog) work. Im only like 
 less then half way through the game but i know it'll get better. The game itself is free-roam and 
 its pretty big, theres the kingdom witch connects jerusilam, and like 2 or 3 other citys, and in 
 each city theres 3 districts. You can get a horse and ride to get whereever faster.
  
  Graphics: Not that great but not horrible
  
  Sound: Awsome
  
  Value: Ya its worth buying 
 for any splinter cell fans or historic game fans.
  
  Overall its a really good game but gets a little bit repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davemac1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed. to be summed up in a quick concise review.
  
  -Story: The story flows well but is a bit out there.
  
  -Graphics: Looks great but some frame 
 rate issues with the PS3 Version. repetitive kill animations with the hand blade.
  
  -Sound: Sounds amazing through HDMI with 5.1 Dolby Digital Surround Sound. Repetitive dialogue 
 can get annoying. 
  
  -Controls: Different control scheme but fun once you get the feel for it. I like it but it does 
 take a while to get used to. 15 min.
  
  -Pro's: game looks amazing. Some of the best graphics I have seen on the PS3. Cloud shadows change 
 the environment. Does a great job of putting the gamer in the time period. weapons are cool and 
 i like how they are rewarded back to Altair. Leap of Faith is cool. Fast travel after mission's 
 are a great +. The assassinations are fun and game play has a "grand theft auto" feel to it. 
 
  
  -Con's: PS3 frame rate issues can be a nuisance. No rumble feature on PS3 which would be great. 
 Game can get repetitive after first few assassinations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bperdue
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Assasins Creed for the XBOX 360 is a great game. In fact, I believe that this game is almost as 
 good as Call of Duty 4 (depending on what kind of games you like, you may actually like this game 
 better) . 
  THE GOOD:
  - Visually stunning graphics. The detail is incredible and the cities are supposed to be historically 
 accurate. 
  - Easy to control. Controlling your character is extremely easy - a breakthrough in modern gaming 
 controls.
  - Length of game - the length of the regular campaign mode will keep you playing this game for 
 hours.
  - Plot - the plot of this game is pretty good... sometimes driving you to play on to learn more 
 about what is happening. 
  
  THE BAD:
  - Repetitious - this comes about because of the little missions you must complete to gain knowledge 
 for your assassinations. There is really no variety here and it gets old very quickly... and because 
 you gain nothing (aside from unlocking accomplishments) many will not want to complete more than 
 is necessary. Fortunately, the plot saves the game from certain death here.
  - Unrealistic bits and pieces - You can blend with the people around you yet you have all your 
 weapons showing. You can hide in haystacks and in little huts on top of buildings and the enemy 
 will not find you. I realize this is a game, so i can let the hiding part go... but blending with 
 scholars when you have swords hanging off of you... C'mon.
  - AI - for the most part the AI is really good, but there are a few times when you can assassinate 
 people with your stealth blade in front of everyone or in front of some guards and NO ONE takes 
 notice.
  - Drunkards, mentally handicapped, insane people, and beggars - They get in your way, are very 
 annoying, and seem to multiply each time you assassinate another target. 
  - Stealth problems - I don't now if I did not try hard enough each time, but it is either really 
 hard or impossible to stealth assassinate every target. There are a couple of times where the storyline 
 forces you to get into a fight.
  - The ending - The ending is a little upsetting... don't want to give anything away, but it is a 
 small downer.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  A great game, although there are a few things wrong with the game, for the most part the game is 
 exciting and should be enjoyable to all who like Hitman style assassination games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Fribble
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  I think that this game has great graphics, sword fighting, free running and lots of other things 
 but to be honest, I couldn't play it for more than 2 hours. 
  This game could have been one of the best games to come out this year but sadly the overly repetitive 
 gameplay and the freakishly easy gameplay has made it very boring. I mean my little 9 year old 
 brother can play through this without any trouble at all, what's up with that! Don't get me wrong, 
 this game is good but for what this game was built up to be, I thinks it abit of a let down. After 
 playing through the first four assasinations the only reason I am still playing it is for the achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmRodyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has a handful of interesting concepts, but after playing the game for a while 
 I wasn't sure how I felt about what its strongest point was.
  The combat, though fun at first, is forgettable, with the exception of the longer-lasting appeal 
 of Altair's hidden blade. Enemies are numerous, and generally the main challenge is to avoid wave 
 after wave of guards that the game throws at you, with two options available to you on how to take 
 care of them: run, or kill.
  I believe that my favorite part of Assassin's Creed was the idea of a Social Stealth game. The 
 crowd reacts in a variety of ways, and while the boxart says they will either help or hinder you, 
 it's almost always the latter. That's not a bad thing; it encourages the player to take on a stealthier 
 role. If there is a sequel planned, I hope this aspect of the game has been much improved, if not 
 adapted in other games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackouthc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is a great game but it has far too many cut scenes. The guards are a little too 
 touchy about what you do. It takes a little while getting a grip on how to get away from the guards. 
 But the fighting techniques are just flawless. I prefered doing sword duals than sneaking around 
 stabbing people. The eagle dives are also preety stunning. The game is much too based around the 
 main storyline. I welcomed addition would have been other factions quests such as the ones in Oblivion 
 or Two Worlds. But still, Assasins Creed is well worth the money and is quite enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud216
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is Ubisofts big holiday game that many people are talking about. Warning to people 
 who don't want to know anything about the sci-fi element of the game to stop reading... ok.
  
  The game starts out with you being Desomond Miles, a bartender in the year 2012. You are trying 
 to find information your lost ancestor Altiar has and apparently the information of our ancestors 
 is in our DNA. You will soon go into the machine called the ANIMUS which will allow you to control 
 Altiar as you assassinate nine targets who are causing ill to the people. 
  
  
  Now, if you have seen the gameplay you will recognize a pupeteering control scheme. A button is 
 feet which allows you to either blend, sprint, step etc. The X button which is your sword hand 
 which allows you to attack with the weapon you are equiped. etc. This is interesting because the 
 game uses this control scheme well. You also have a high profile and low profile. In low profile 
 you walk and gently push while in high profile you run/sprint and shove. These two profiles are 
 key in making your investiagations run smoothly. The fighting is also entertaining in all the different 
 ways to fight, however it seems the game urges you to counter for most of the battles you fight, 
 which can get tedious when you are waiting for an enemy to strike.
  
  Speaking of investigations, you have to complete "investigations" for each of your targets in order 
 to find them in the first place. These missions range from pickpocketing, eavesdropping, and interrogations, 
 to retrieving flags and assassinating specific targets for your allies. These missions, while fun, 
 can get a bit repetitive, espicially toward the end of the game. While this is one of Asassin's 
 Creed's major faults, you learn to accept it just because of how great the game is overall.
  
  
  The graphics in the game are the highlights. This game is gorgeous. Everything from the 
 giant cathedrals, to the thousands of people wandering the city are made with so much detail that 
 it is amazing. The same goes for altiar's movements, everything, from his swordplay to climbing 
 builldings look really natural.
  
  Overall this game is amazing. You have alot of freedom, you can do what you want, and the only 
 thing holding this game back, is repetiveness, and overhype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sneyob111
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Overview: Oh wow. Assassin's Creed was the most anticipated game of the year (after Halo 3) for 
 me. When I first saw the "PS3 only" designation, I told myself "Yeah right". There was no way they 
 could keep this game off of the 360. A month later, I checked back on Gamespot and it said "For 
 PS3 and 360". That made my next several months. Then i finally got my hands on it, and was totally 
 happy with the results. So many people want to see games fail, but you can't drag this game down.
 
  
  Gameplay: First is first, overall gameplay. I truly fell in love with the gameplay of Assassin's 
 Creed. From navigating crowded city streets to experiencing the freedom of free running over any 
 obstacles in my path, I found a near flawless system in place. I felt like i could do anything 
 I felt doing. After about an hour of playing moving through the cities felt natural and sub concious. 
 I did not need to think about where I had to jump or grab onto to get over that wall. I merely 
 had to decide where i wanted to go, and Altair would get me there. It wasn't nearly overly simplistic, 
 it just felt completely natural and it made sense.
  
  Controls: I do not see what Gamespot had against these controls. The head/arms/legs setup of the 
 buttons was completely natural and made the game about playing, not fighting the controller. Also, 
 holding the right trigger and A to sprint felt normal too. I liked the Low/high profile control 
 setup because it made sense to me, it didn't feel forced or uncomfortable.
  
  Graphics: Assassin's Creed is beautiful. The immersive art style and ambitous cities are conveyed 
 flawlessly through the stunning graphics. I felt like i was in a medieval city, not staring at 
 a TV screen for hours on end.
  
  I can go so much more into depth, but i haven't the time. Here would be the game's flaws:
  
 
  -Some un-blockable attacks from enemies. Seriously, i threw my controller at my Chihuahua in frustration, 
 but got it together after i stabbed the guy five times with my short blade.
  -"Impossible" true assassinations. On some missions, there was no way to truly assassinate my target 
 and i had to resort to fighting him and fifty guards.
  -Retarded free running. Yes, sometimes Altair would jump the wrong way or grab a little ledge a 
 foot off the ground whille i was running from guards.
  -Area between cities. I could have done without the boring travel between cities. I found it easier 
 when i just galloped at full speed through it instead of avoiding guards the whole way, which would 
 have taken hours. Thankfully this was made optional when a fast travel system was included after 
 you initially travel to all three cities
  
  Final verdict: 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair_92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent! It can get a bit repetitive though. You can kill anyone that you want. 
 Fight using a wide variety of counters and combos! Climb hundreds of feet into the air and then 
 jump off! 
  
  Excellent and interesting storyline! As the story progresses, it gets more interesting and you 
 can't wait for the futuristic parts of the game to come in. The end will make you anticipate the 
 next Assassins Creed! 
  
  You can collect flags, kill Templars, save citizens, climb viewpoints, and investigate! Use a variety 
 of weapons to kill your enemies! Throwing knives, your hidden blade, sword, or dagger. The sword 
 and dagger have their own set of combos and counters.
  
  Overall, I would give this game a 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbhuskie87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the bigger disappointments I've felt with a video game... I found the graphics 
 to be some of the best I've ever seen but the way in which you have to acquire information to ultimately 
 kill your target is the same every time. Assassinate a couple guards that your brother with a "hurt 
 back" couldn't get, pickpocket people for information, and beat someone up for information. I didn't 
 change at all for the first 8. I started to get pretty excited towards the end because the action 
 started to get pretty intense. Then the game just ended... I didn't find the ending to be as confusing 
 as I was led to believe. It seemed pretty straight forward. After you leave the Animus I looked 
 around the area and saw some references to Aztecan (Quetzalcoatl) and Egyptian (a pyramid) areas. 
 This made me pretty excited for what lies ahead. Overall, this game had some of the best graphics 
 to date but the way in which the story progressed was very lackluster... If the missions weren't 
 all the same and the game ended with a little sense of closure I would've given it a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aidan100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all far as im concerned, graphics that are a treat for the eye, a deep interesting 
 story line with twists and turns, gameplay that is so polished you can almost see your reflection 
 in it, and i could carry on for days . Now to the NITTY GRITTY.
  
  Graphics
  
  They are some of the best X360 graphics yet, but you do see the occational tiny glitch. personally 
 i find the graphics of Acre the best (the place shown in a interview a few months back killing 
 a european regent lord)
  
  Sound
  
  Amazing apart from the main character has a american accent (the only one in the whole game, theres 
 a mix of strong european , and middle eastern accents and your main is an american just doesnt 
 work)
  
  Gameplay
  
  could be slightly better in the fight bit for sure looks amazing but the fight doesnt flow like 
 they want it to you dont get time to step in break defense and all the other fancy stuff all i 
 used to complete the game was attack , counter attack and throwing knifes and the essential assasination 
 skill. and when you do try you die lose you temper and chuck the controller at the wall (been there 
 and done it) as far the FREE RUNNING one word PERFECT 
  
  Story
  
  Amazing deep story wich takes twists and turns you wouldnt expect, couldnt ask for a better one.
 
  
  last but not least it is too short by far, but i think if it was made any longer it would comparamise 
 the games quality so in conclusion just right.
  
  Conclusion
  
  In my opinion if you havnt bought this game yet you do not deserve your 360 anymore this game woops 
 halo 3 and any other xbox 360 games to date and yes ive played a huge majority of them.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo-millz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  A mix of prince of Persia, hitman and GTA free roaming make this game amazing. You start off at 
 the beginning of the game being rid of your weapons and demoted back to a new apprentice type assassin 
 because of a big mistake you make which puts your group in trouble so what you must do is work 
 your way back up to being the best (even though you already are) . You have to gather information 
 about the target you are to take out by pick pocketing, eavesdropping in on conversations and by 
 beating the answers out of people. As well as the main assassinations there are people who need 
 help that are being beaten up by the guards, when you save them they will give you information 
 or help you out by protecting you with a group of thugs that appear, if you are in trouble lead 
 the guards through the area and the thugs will grab the guards allowing you to escape to hide or 
 to assassinate the guards with the hidden blade you have. 
  This game gets increasingly difficult as you progress more into it. The guards begin to notice 
 you easier and it becomes harder to lose them because they surround you. There are beggars and 
 mental people who are annoying because they get in the way and wont leave you alone. The game will 
 progress when you want it to so you can wonder round killing guards, looking for flags or scaling 
 buildings to view more parts of the map. The playing controls in the game are good and easy to 
 get the hang of. It is however annoying when you try to assassinate your targets by jumping at 
 them and he jumps right over the guy. The quality of the graphics are incredible everything is 
 very detailed. What would make the game better would be if it rained effecting the visibility and 
 made the roofs and surfaces slippy. 
  All in all this is a good solid game with just a few minor annoying bits in it. I would definitely 
 recommend it to any hardcore gamer or some one who just likes insanely killing people. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Day1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start?
  
  Graphics : Best graphics i ever seen in the whole gaming world, every detail is accesible and fun.
 
  
  Gameplay : Combat is really good fun, only problem is some district guards suck and others, impossble 
 or just right. The counter-moves and small cinematics are a really good feature. The free-running 
 and controls are very easy and exciting. Also the animations are great.
  
  Sound : good sounds and fight music is very well done aswell as the chasing of the guards music.
 
  
  Everything else : The story is good, but the repetative investigations and continually climbing 
 view points wares down the actual excitement of the assasinations, you work and build up for the 
 assassinations so much you only get 9 or so assassinations in the game. But everythign else, including 
 the blend system and high and low profile is very cool.
  
  Final : a good buy for the Xbox, Excellent, but not quite. Probabaly worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been following this game for a long time, and I was really hoping that it would live up 
 to expectations, well in my opinion, it did. I will break this down into sections so it's easier 
 to follow.
  
  Gameplay: I LOVE the form of gameplay in this game. It's so open and the game world is huge. There's 
 a lot of places in each city to explore. I also like the counter system very much. If you are in 
 a tight spot, just wait for your enemy to attack you, counter and bam, they're down. The enemies 
 in this game do get pretty smart. If you attract a lot of attention, the guards will be chasing 
 you for a long time. Also, they can set up these kind of "road blocks" persay where if you're running 
 away from a group of guards, they will have a couple of other guards ahead of you waiting for you 
 to come and they will try to knock you down. The gameplay is just fantastic to sum it up.
  
  Sound: I really liked this sound in this game. From the sound of dying enemies, to the sound 
 of the crumbling walls you're scaling, everything just sounds great. When you are slashing at enemies, 
 the sound of your sword cutting them is very well done. The only minor gripe I have is that once 
 in a while, with this certain counter move I do, the sound will come a little early. Like I will 
 hear the sound of my sword cutting into the enemy, only it hasn't actually happened yet. But other 
 than that, the sound is phenomenal.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are some of the best i've seen in a while. The detail on Altair 
 and his clothes/weapons are very well done. The sky in this game looks great, and the different 
 colors on the different things around the world all look perfect. One of my favorite things is 
 when I cut someone, the blood will be on Altair's sword and it doesn't look wicked fake.
  
  Difficulty: This game only has one difficulty setting, but depending on how you approach different 
 situations, the game can be hard or easy. You definitely do not just want to go all out crazy in 
 every part of the game, especially earlier in the game, it's a good way to get yourself killed. 
 But this game is just right in difficulty if you take the stealthy approach too. I'm not saying 
 that you can't have a little fun, but on some big parts of the game, it's just better to be stealthier.
 
  
  Controls: The controls are very fluent and I think are very responsive. The game creators did a 
 good job on making sure that the control response times aren't off. When you are hopping rooftops, 
 you won't want to go scale up a wall, and have the button not do what it's supposed to at the right 
 time, that could cause major problems.
  
  Game length: I think if you do all the side missions, etc. This game will take upwards of 15 hours 
 to complete. It could even take longer if you did what I did which was look for different approaches 
 to kill my targets. But if you just do what side missions are required, and then just rush through 
 the game, it will still take you hours, but it won't be as fun going through the game. I recommend 
 that if you want to get all you can out of this game, you should do the side missions before you 
 attempt to do the assassinations.
  
  Storyline: I will not spoil anything for the people who have not played it yet, but this games 
 storyline was very well thought out. There are parts in this game that will just really surprise 
 you and wonder why. I think this game has one of the best storylines i've ever seen.
  
  Overall: Overall this is one of my favorite games of all time. This game is lengthly, has the right 
 amount of violence in it, you can free roam all you want and just have fun hopping rooftops and 
 scaling walls. I would definitely recommend this game to anyone who is thinking about buying it. 
 One of the only problems with this game (hence the 9.5/10 score) is that sometimes the framerate 
 will go down and the game will start to lag. But if you don't overheat the disk and play it too 
 much (like me ;) ) It should'nt do it very often. Other than that, you will not be disappointed with 
 this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeCJ2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a good game. Not amazing, not outstanding, it's pretty solid and that's about 
 it.
  
  I'll break it down for you:
  1) Graphics - Arguably one of the top 3 or 4 best looking Xbox 360 games to date. The detail to 
 the cities and characters are outstanding. The cities are also huge and fun to explore ala Prince 
 of Persia style climbing and running and jumping, as well as blending in with the crowd. The menus 
 and how you go about loading and continuing your game and such are also very energetic to the game, 
 it really grabs you and makes you feel like you're apart of the story. 
  
  2) Gameplay
  Pros: Very very addictive at first. Face it, assassinating guards left and right with a blade that 
 comes out of your hand? Awesome. And going from rooftop to rooftop, catching view points (the games 
 way of revealing information on a map) , saving citizens and doing other jobs for informants is 
 really neat. You gain abilities with each main assassination (9 in all) and doing side missions 
 fills your health bar (like max hearts in Zelda) . Towards the end of the game it's quite easy to 
 take on 10 guards at once with out losing a single point of health. And the little kill moves you 
 perform on your targets are really neat and fluid, like stabbing them in the foot then uppercut 
 slicing them in the face or kicking out their feet and then delivering the final blow to their 
 neck, your jaw will draw and you'll most likely say "OH SNAP!" without a doubt. And there's quite 
 a bit to do, and if you're like me and like to complete all side missions first then do the story 
 line it will probably take you 10-20 hours or more.
  
  Cons: However, this all gets very very repetitive. You're stuck doing the same thing at each city. 
 There is no variation whatsoever besides dialogue of characters. There is variation between your 
 main assassination targets, and how you go about doing them but it leaves little room for error 
 and if you fail you'll have your target and plenty of guards to deal with. By my 6th assassination 
 target I was ready to quit playing.. it was that dull. There's only 3 main cities, as well as your 
 headquarters city but there's a huge inter-travel area in between each city. You ride through it 
 for the first couple missions but then it just allows you to auto-travel.. skipping the entire 
 thing. And there's nothing to see in there besides view points/flags/assassinate Templars (all 
 side missions) which don't really advance the plot at all, so it's pretty much pointless other 
 than riding around on a horse and attacking guards, that's about it. They should have done something 
 more with it. The game is also ridiculously easy, and the only way to really die is falling to 
 your death.
  
  Story:
  Very interesting how they entwine your play with the present (not going to reveal spoilers) . The 
 story is kind of solid, overall they did a fairly good job and of how everything comes together. 
 The end is kind of confusing but its just a gateway to Assassin's Creed 2.
  
  
  Overall, I think this game left me wanting more. It really has no replay value (other than getting 
 hundreds of flags hidden throughout each place.. no thanks) and, like I said, it just gets dull 
 and repetitive. The coolness factor wears off quick. This is a rent sadly, maybe they'll step things 
 up in the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Flag
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is simply excellent. The graphics will immediately catch your eye and keep you 
 in awe well into the game. Textures look as-real-as-possible. The architecture looks as it would 
 back in the days of the crusade. Even Altier (the main character) looks amazing. The cloth flows 
 as you move and your blades shine in the sun. Speaking of the sun, you will be pretty amazed on 
 how detailed they made the sky. Clouds overcast the ground and you can see they're shadows move 
 along. It really makes you forget who you are and believe you are Altier. 
  The game's mechanics are something that no one has ever seen in a game before. Free-running across 
 cities is something everyone should experience. The game's ability to let Altier grab onto any 
 ledge or crack in a surface is incredible. You really can climb anything that you could in real 
 life! (not to say you should) . The way you interact with characters and objects is stunning. Altier 
 will gently brush shoulders with another citizen if you come to close. You can also gently push 
 them to the side if you don't want to make them break anything they are holding. If your in a aggressive 
 mood, simply switch to high-profile mode and grab and push or tackle them to get out of your way. 
 Be warned, guards aren't to fond of you doing those.
  The gameplay is something I have a bit of a bone to pick. Don't get me wrong, the action and fights 
 you have in Assassin's Creed are very fun. Counter kills and combos look amazing, each one never 
 gets old as you either slice someone through the head or drive your blade into they're heart. That, 
 however, can only be fun for so long. It lacks substance it needs to keep me interested. Also contributing 
 to that is the way you find your targets. This process of walking around a city and looking for 
 people to pickpocket, interrogate, and eavesdrop can be very tedious and mundane. It will get old 
 after a while, but I guess that's the life of an assassin. 
  Overall, this game is incredible. Revolutionary mechanics and a interesting story (which I won't 
 ruin) make this game definitely worth playing. However, for it's repetition and lack of ways in 
 which to accomplish missions, this game is a rent. Not to say it's a horrible game, you will just 
 get tired of it after a few days. An extremely high rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellz666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Assassin's creed for about a week. I'm not finished with the game, so I cannot 
 give an expert, overall review. What I can do is describe the game for what I've seen thus far.
 
  
  Graphically, the game on XBOX360 looks utterly amazing. The landscapes, the NPCs, the birds flying 
 in the sky and every being in the game look amazing. The feel of the terrain and the light of the 
 sun are perfect. Nowadays, most "next-gen" games look very good anyhow, but the frame rate you 
 get even with hundreds of characters on screen is simply breathtaking. When you go into a viewpoint 
 cut scene, which opens up map areas, you'll be simply stunned by the outlay of the world beneath 
 you. Even after doing it a twentieth or thirtieth time, it never gets old and always stuns.
  
  The game play itself is very good. As an assassin in 1191 AD, you must carry out orders and 
 kill 9 people. Each assassination requires an investigation to be performed and a city to be explored. 
 The cities, Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem are based on their real life counterparts throughout the 
 years of the crusade. As you conduct your investigation you'll need to pickpocket people whom carry 
 documents you need, eavesdrop on conversations and interrogate people in private where you can 
 beat a confession out of them. All of this takes place under the watchful eyes of the cities guards, 
 whom will attack at the slightest criminal offense. When you carry out your kills, a deep, dark 
 story unravels and even includes portions taking place 1,000 years in the future. Yes, the future, 
 as there is a lot more to this story than anyone expected at release.
  
  The mechanics of the game are fluid and responsive. Fighting is not difficult and certain assassination 
 maneuvers look very pleasing and satisfy your thirst for the revenge that you'll eventually seek 
 on people such as guards, beggars and henchmen. You'll acquire a bunch of moves each time you progress 
 the story, try them out in the battleground and off you go to carry out your next order. 
  
  The game has been fabulous for me thus far, and if the next half is anywhere near as good as 
 the first half, I have a lot to look forward to. Being that this game is supposedly part of a trilogy, 
 I'm sure the anticipation for the next chapter is going to swell unbelievably as I get closer to 
 completing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLonewolf777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying I am one of those fan that has been waiting for this to come out for almost 
 two years. I had high expectations for this title and believed that Ubisoft could deliver.
  
  The Assassins Creed I bought about a week ago left me with a mixed sense of feelings after 
 the final moments with the single player story.
  
  The game in its self was great.
  The good of the game for me was....
  
  - Beautiful textures and bump mapping made the city's 
 and Kingdom look unbelievably realistic. It is amazing looking at all the animations done in the 
 game, for altair and npc's alike. A lot of detail went into making this game look Brilliantly Beautiful.
 
  
  -Game play is another aspect of this game that stood out for me. The "Free-running" mode was a 
 great idea and made moving around the city fun and interesting. Unlike most reviewers and players 
 I state that They did a WELL DONE job on the control scheme. A realistic idea was used in managing 
 the gameplay for this game. There is low profile and High profile (low profile when u wanna be seen 
 as just another person doing every day socially acceptable actions, high profile for more aggressive 
 and "be seen" actions) along with the "blend" mode. The blend mode was a little tricky tho, killing 
 a guard in plain sight then just blending and not get caught was a bit of a head scratcher for 
 me.
  And when u do get the guards attention u need to either break line of sight and hide or kill all 
 who saw you. If u decide to break line of sight, u need to hide. It does not help running away 
 for miles while they cant see u, they WILL find u. U need to jump into the nearest hiding spot 
 and hide.
  
  - Combat for me was one of the best aspects of this game. I love the whole realistic take on games 
 and the sword fight tho sometimes a little too easy with the counter system was a great experience. 
 The killing animations are so bloody and soundly satisfying that I think it will be hard for me 
 to enjoy any other hack/slash or action title more than this one.
  
  - The voice overs and ambience sounds were a great mix and even in the crowded street with vendors 
 yelling and women begging u could hear ur mark making information important conversation that u 
 were listening too from the far bench.
  
  -A lot of collectables (flags and killing templars) helps bring up the replay value of this game.
 
  
  -A lot of acheviements to unlock for xbox 360 owners
  
  -Great to be able to climb anywhere u want (even if the whole city arent open to the player from 
 the start)
  
  -The Story was great and opened my mind and heart and drew me in for a great experience and a cliff 
 hanger ending. Now i have to wait for the sequel :P
  
  Small things in this game blew the 10/10 mark I would have given it in my wildest dreams.
  
 
  -Firstly, horse riding is seen as a hostile action on medium speed by the guards. WHY? I dunno, 
 it just is.
  and fighting from horse back is pretty useless.
  -In the Kingdom the guards are more aware of u than in a city where u have already assassinated 
 some1. ??????
  -repetitive side missions and investigation quests is bad, really bad. The same thing over and 
 over again. If only more different things were implemented in the game it would have made this 
 game so great.
  -No side quests in the kingdom. TOTAL LET DOWN.
  -Too many view points to scale! GEEZ
  
  
  End thoughts:
  
  The Sequel will possibly be 
 a much better experience due to the fact that the engine is already built and they can focus on 
 other elements of the game that they might have missed/finished too quickly in AC.
  
  A great game all the same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepope87
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  A verry quick erview of this game...............
  
  Audio: Great!
  
  Visuals: reat!
  
  Gameplay: Ok.
  
  Level Design: Great!
  
  Overall: A Rental
  
  The problem with 
 this game is that you prety much do everything in the first hour. The only things you do in the 
 game are; Interogate, Rescue Civilians, Help Informants for INFORMATION!, Find high points in the 
 game and assassinate your target at the end. Sure all that sounds GREAT! but that is all you do 
 and in the exact same fashion and 2/3 of the stuff you dont even have to do! Oh yeah also yo uhave 
 to collect flags. 
  
  There are three cities were about 90% of your missins take place. Each city is divided into 3rd's. 
 Once you finish the first 3rd of the first city you go to the second city and go do that 3rd and 
 once you finish that you go to the 3rd city and finish that 3rd ou got to the first city again 
 and do the 2nd 3rd of that city and so on. An what do you do in all those cities you may ask...................... 
 THE SAME DAMN THING 9 F***K**G TIMES AND WORST OF ALL AS I MENTIONED ABOVE YOU ONLY HAVE TO DO 
 1/3 OF THE "QUESTS" TO FINISH YOUR MISSION!
  
  
  Well im tired of writing this here but ifny of you gamers out there think this is bull and want 
 me to explain everything to you more seriously fell free to message my at......................... 
 myspace. com/spacepope87 or at my msn................. spacepope87@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayo_93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is definitely a fun game, for most the most part. It is easily comparable to other 
 games in many aspects, first and foremost P {rince of Persia. The movements of your character are 
 nearly identical to what is seen in Prince of Persia; not that this is a bad thing. 
  
  I do however, have some issues with the gameplay, which includes hiding from the guards. Guards 
 don't look in roof garden's?... Apparently they don't and it is one of the small things that bugs 
 me. Also you never gain a reputation in an area for long; once you leave a kill the populous has 
 generally forgotten about you. The longevity of the game itself is less than desirable as well. 
 
  
  The game, however, looks amazing and the physics are really well done. The game is fun although 
 repetitious at times. I can forgive the game for its lack of (quality) side missions as just running 
 around on roofs is entertaining in its own right. The fight system is also fairly entertaining 
 and some of the games best visuals come from here. It, however, starts to feel redundant over time 
 as do most of the missions. I may have had too high of expectations for assassin's creed but it 
 left me wanting more variance and unique movements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It has a really good story and twist at the end. The story sucks you in an 
 you will not be able to stop playing. This game is great but can get anoying at times. An example 
 is near the end of the game. The guards are more aware of whats going on or what happens. So lets 
 say you breathed wrong the guards will go after wich can get anoying if your trying to do side 
 missions but this dosen't kill the gameplay at all it just gets you ready for the end of the game. 
 The side missionsin general are great but can get kind of old. Though you get achievements for 
 them also. This is a great game and has an amazing last hour of story. Controls aren't hard at 
 all to use and are very well placed. You gain upgrades that help you do more things in the game 
 like grabing onto things easier by pressing the B button. This is defininetly a buy unless this 
 is the first game for your console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McFlu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved this game, i cant stop playin it, between the killin random guards one and a 
 time, or goin against like 10 at once, its still fun. The game is so much bigger than i expected, 
 which means lots of room to screw around, and it all still looks amazin. the only problem i had 
 with it was out of no where the fightin started to get alot hard, like i couldnt counter as well, 
 but that might have just been me, i dont know, but even still this is defintely an awesome game 
 that everyone should get. the stupid 100 word minimum limit sucks, so this should do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is by far the most graphically stunning game to date. With beautiful character 
 models that actually resemble real human beings in shape, (ie- Gears of War, your graphics were 
 good but your characters were blocks of meat that didn't resemble earthly beings.) and the most 
 stunning enviroments I have ever seen in a game. (And real life)
  
  You are set in the 12th century A. D., sometime during the third crusade, as a member of a brotherhood 
 bent on purifying the land of people deemed evil by any means necessary. (So you get to stab people, 
 solid game plan) But are you, as soon as you boot up the game, (So it really isn't a spoiler) if 
 you haven't heard on the net, you are actually set in the future, utilizing a machine that decodes 
 DNA memory from the human genome to live through the eyes of your ancestors. The story is solid, 
 and has its share of twists and intrigue. (One of the only two games I would recommend for a movie 
 based on story alone, along with Bioshock, rather than just a full out action flick.) You will 
 learn to love your character, Altair, perrrenial badass, and the best the Assassins have to offer.
 
  
  The visuals are a stunning element of the game that will constantly amaze you as you play through 
 the story. All the tiny details and intricacies in the enviroment might even make you forget your 
 playing a game for a second. No more bland over used enviroments typical in other sandbox games 
 like GTA and The Godfather. Everything runs perfect as well, I have never seen one graphical hiccup 
 and the game has never slowed in framerate or froze one time during my extensive playthrough.
 
  
  The controls are as fluid as you could ever ask and AC offers of of the funnest and deepest combat 
 systems of games to date. Rather than pulling the Right Trigger over and over to hack your enemies 
 until there life is expended, you actually have to react to your enemies and choose your tactics 
 and style wisely. However the gameplay and missions are somwhat shallow, the targets are imaginative 
 but the sub missions involved in assassinations are extremely overused. Dozens of pickpocket and 
 identical interrogation objectives, and while the combat involved with assasinations is fun, it 
 is always the same, requiring little though or imagination. Not to say there isn't some depth for 
 those who will look, in one particular type pf sub mission that is sadly only seen once of twice 
 during the game you assist another assassin eliminate targets, and the main hits can be went about 
 with style if you take your time and plan your actions, but players rarely will because running 
 in and stabbing them in the neck then hacking their way out seems to be equally effective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbit69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I am glad to see Assassin's Creed has finally established its balanced and can walk on its own 
 without me seeing it needing support from its father PRINCE OF PERSIA! (refer to previous post) . 
 www. myxbox360. weebly. com My intial response to this game after I stuck it in my xbox was copy, 
 copy, copy, thank God I was able to get pass that. All I kept seeing was POP as I played this game. 
 I didn't want to see that because I highly anticipated this game ever since I heard about its release 
 months ago. I was feeling bad because I so wanted this game to become a great game franchise. Doubts 
 begun to erase after I completed the city missions. When I wrote my last post I was in the middle 
 of the cities and was finding the gameplay very mundane and repetitive. However the game redeemed 
 itself as I left Jerusalem's city walls and proceeded to what I thought was the end of the game. 
 I was surprised that the game wasn't quite over. I have heard many complain about the conclusion 
 of this game but for me the climax of the game established itself in my eyes. My only hang up with 
 this game is the missions, they were all too similar, they were not diverse enough, the only saving 
 factor in the missions was the glorious cities that were unfolding before your eyes as you gathered 
 the clues to complete the assassination. I just hope that in 2008 the sequel Assassin's Creed 2: 
 Assassinate Harder the missions will be not so redunant. Overall this game has improved to an 8.5, 
 this is my final answer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoreoVII
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Im going to keep this very short but if you loved the prince of persia series, you will feel right 
 at home with this game. Also their are many indications of it being a trilogy so if the story appealed 
 to you (which it did to me) their is much more to come., All the negative things you have heard 
 about this game are indeed..... true, but all can easily be forgiven overall. After all, no game 
 is perfect.
  
  this is not for FPS and/or Multiplayer fans and is a fresh start for free roaming, platforming 
 games on the XBOX 360. 
  
  Pls give this game a chance by renting it first, and if you like it, buy it! (i did, its my type 
 of game anyway) .
  
  Ubisoft is starting to get my attention with these games just as Capcom has.
  
  And Jade Raymond 
 (producer of Assassin's Creed) is the hottest producer i have ever seen....... (so far) (just to 
 put that out their lol)
  
  I hope all of you really enjoy the game....... peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1657
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I avoided rating this game for awhile just because I had mixed feelings, and this 
 will easily be the toughest review I have done yet. 
  
  Alright, so, I am also going to say I liked the sci-fi part of the story, because, to be honest, 
 it was the story that drove me all the way through and continue playing, and it had a pretty good 
 storyline, although predictable. 
  
  The gameplay is great - at first. But how it does get repetitive. After seeing an execution sequence 
 1000 times, even 100 times, it just loses its flair. It was real disappointing. I bet if they added 
 some other weapons, like even dual wielding, it would be thought of as a better combat system. 
 Running on rooftops was another great experience, until that got old and repetitive too. The reason 
 for running away getting reptitive? The A. I.
  
  I felt insulted sometimes playing this game. They promised an intelligent and/or revolutionary 
 A. I. but we get this? I really hope that they still don't believe that, cuz if they think that 
 we will have a challenge, they obviously think we are pretty dumb.
  
  The graphics are great, everyone knows that, so no point in dwelling on it. Go take a look at screenshots 
 or something and see for yourself.
  
  Sound was good. But what made me irritated the most was the people. All they do is critisize you, 
 unless you saved them from a guard. If you do ANYTHING that is different than walking, you are 
 thought of as a freak, not to mention that you hear the same voice-overs after playing the game 
 for 30 minutes or so.
  
  I do believe that one time, the citizen's I saved said the same line 3 times in a row. I think 
 everyone will have this stuck in their head.. something along the line's of "Good thing you came 
 by when you did.... or those guards would have had away with me"
  
  At the same time, every citizen is a thief when being bothered by a guard, and they get the same 
 response, "I wouldn't ever try that!" Also, all the guards have the same voice.
  
  All these things here can bring a game down. But Assassin's Creed still does feel fun and exciting.
 
  
  It isn't a bad game by any stretch of the imagination, but it does have its fare share of flaws.
 
  
  For a few more disappointments: 
  1) The contracts, the people you are assigned to assassinate, they are a joke. There is no immersive 
 way to end their life, there just isn't. By the time you even get to the first assassination target, 
 you already seen the the animation used on a guard, or a drunk citizen. For example, to end the 
 life of your main target, you can either:
  A) Run up and fight
  B) Sneak around and assassinate
  C) Run up from behind and do a dive assassination
  
  ALL 
 of these can be done on guards. There is no special assassination sequence, there is no spectacular 
 extra gameplay that can be done with these "bosses". No they are just treated as if they are regular 
 guards. Sad.
  Why can we not poison a drink? Shoot a bow? (Even the opening cinematic he has a crossbow) Why 
 can we not booby-trap some items? Why can we not impersonate someone to get close? There are so 
 many key assassin points that are completely left out from this game, that makes you not actually 
 feel like an assassin
  
  2) Jumping hundreds of feet will kill you, but land in a small pile of hay from the same distance, 
 and you will be perfectly fine - and the frail wooden carriage will be in perfect condition still.
 
  
  3) Pick-pocketing: Failure. Takes 2 seconds to complete it, just stand behind him and press a button 
 - it would be much harder and s ton more skill would be required, not to mention the second you 
 get the note, map, etc from the victim, he instantly turns around, notices it is gone, shrugs his 
 shoulders and moves along. Why is this?! While listening in before pick-pocketing, it seems as 
 though their very lives will end if they don't get to deliver the message or w/e it is they are 
 carrying. But they notice it is gone a second after putting it in their pocket, and they don't 
 look to question anyone, even though they see a hooded figure slowly walking in the other direction.
 
  
  4) *****SPOILER - scroll down to next part to continue of you don't want to be spoiled!******
 
  This is more so maybe a possible graphical glitch. The girl who reveals to you that she is an 
 assassin, shows you her ring finger has been removed, which we are told through history that the 
 assassin's removed that finger for their hidden blade. But I went back to check, and, sure enough, 
 she has all her fingers. Is there going to be some explanation for this? Maybe possibly they have 
 "finger" caps that they can put on? Just kinda disappointing.
  
  
  
  ****END SPOILER****
  
  Alright, so those are some flaws, which do harm the game plenty. I was 
 really disappointed, and I was one of the huge fans who wanted this so bad. It was overhyped, and 
 I blame Ubisoft for that. Some games don't get good ratings because it can't live up to the hype, 
 but this game gets some bad ratings because it never even met what was promised. If this game was 
 what it should have been, it would have been great, and we would talk about it for years to come.
 
  
  In the end, I think that after some time, the people who rated this 9.0 and higher will later see 
 the game for what it is. They are in denial, because I wanted to be too, which is why it took so 
 long for me to type this out. I wanted to sit back and realize what it was. It is sad when it comes 
 to a point where a game is such a disappointment that you have to sit back and "think" about what 
 you actual feel.
  
  To the people who gave it a 10, you're seeing something completely different than what I am seeing 
 apparantly. This game is far from perfect. So many flaws. But how does a game score a 10/10 when 
 there are so many flaws, and especially have such a horrible replay value? Sure, you can overlook 
 some flaws, Idid at first, but you know what? Flaws mean "not perfect".
  
  I beat this game less than 24 hours after it came out. And the only thing that made me continue, 
 was for the storyline, and the huge cliffhanger at the end made me upset because that was the reason 
 why I was playing. Just ended so abruptly. But yeah, since I beat the game, I haven't played it 
 since, and prolly never will.
  
  Going to have to wait another few years to continue the storyline, but this time I won't be fooled 
 by Ubisoft. I hope they understand they bombed on what they promised, and make this game live up 
 to its true potential.
  
  Enjoy the game while you can guys, because it ages pretty quick... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haseofan_07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  With its amazing graphics, wonderfully designed cities, immersive story, and outstanding gameplay, 
 Assassin's Creed is really one of the best games of the year. The score and sound effects are marvelous! 
 The astounding AI of the NPC's along with the huge scale cities, bring this medieval world to life! 
 The voice acting I think could have been a little, tiny bit, better, but it's still an amazing 
 game and is definitely worth buying. This game really is a true "next-gen" game. What could be 
 better than going back to the Crusades as an assassin and eradicating a few big time war bringers 
 and slave drivers huh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Visually the game looks good but honestly I thought GRAW 2 looked better. Ubi raised the bar once 
 again in platforming like they did with Prince of Persia. U try to play any other platforming game 
 after u have played Assassins and u are gonna miss the way Ubi did it in this game. Really really 
 great job on that. The story is a mind f*ck. If u ever read / watched the DaVinci Code this game 
 takes it to the next level with the conspiracy theories with the Templar Knights. Its bananas. 
 The story is the main reason I played this game till the end. The combat is a lil reminisent of 
 Prince of Persia. Its a lil confusing at first but once u get it down u will be taking on 10 - 
 15 dudes at a time with no problem. If u arent a patient person I dont recommend this game. U will 
 get fustrated at the fact every mark (9 in total) u have to do research on every single one before 
 u can go about the business of taking them out. U will be spending 30mins min getting intel on 
 yur target. It does get repetative as the way u go about gathering intel is the same for all the 
 targets but if u stick it out u will have a very plesent surprise when u have assassinated the 
 first 8 targets. (u'll know what i am talking about when u play the game) . There are some glicthes 
 im really trying to figure out how Ubi let slip by. Collision detection with dead bodies is non 
 existant, and sometimes u will see characters phase through walls. For a game that was as hyped 
 as this one was it was a shame u saw that happening. SMH. Really sloppy on Ubi's part. Seriously. 
 
  
  In closing the game is good but the only reason I see u wanting to see this game till the end is 
 the story. It does get repetative and there is lil replay value in my mind. Might be better off 
 just renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerd0g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  first off this game is really good and it is super fun to climb around on all of the diffrent stuff 
 in the cities. you start out in this little town at the start of the game but then the master of 
 the creed sends you on this mission to kill a black market merchant you are aloud to leave the 
 city and go out on you own first off when you leave the gates you see that there are a few horses 
 you climb into one and you are on your way. you pass thorugh a couple small towns as you ride but 
 then you come around a corner and see this huge kingdom and this is where the game begans and it 
 is amazing.
  
  Cons to this game would be that you may notice that there are alot of graphics errors and glitches 
 but most of the time you do not notice them to much an that hardly effects the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloatz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I might have been just me but I felt assassins creed had alot of secrecy while it was being made. 
 I could find much info on story and alike. I knew you played as an assassin in the crusades and 
 you went on missions to assassinate leaders in the jeruseleam area. But when i got it I had no 
 idea I was played through memories. Its a fasinating theory i guess, dna holds memories from our 
 anscestors thats how fish know where the spawning pool is, or how birds now where to fly when migration 
 starts. But after watching podcasts and gamespot videos I thought the game was more of a free roam 
 thing like a GTA sort of world. Clearly i wasnt paying attention or something. 
  
  Never the less I still enjoy hopping around and diving on some unaware guards back and slitting 
 his throat with my hidden blade. Just the little things like climbing and running around is great 
 but the missions are where the game went down hill.
  
  My main issue it the way you progress to you're target. Yes researching info on a target makes 
 sense but theres like 4 different ways to get information and you do it over and over and over 
 again. Pickpocket, eaves drop, helping some brother hood member either collect flags or assassinate 
 some guard.
  
  Climbing the high points isnt necessary but its pretty cool climbimg so high then leaping. and 
 it rids you of the fog in the map and you can see all the missions.
  
  Saving citizens isnt to bad either but sometimes they disappear.
  
  I've always disliked hidden 
 packages and the act theres like what 300 flags divided into 6 flag types scattered around the 
 land its so stupid. I don't want to go looking for that, what were you thinking why so many.
  
  I don't regret buying the game but I would have liked it if I knew more about it then buying 
 it and discovering that it was completely different from what i thought, and the fact i didnt know 
 the release date of all things until like what 2 weeks berore it came out. I need to know what 
 im buying and i guess i got the wrong message from them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lu_E_G
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I long awaited the release of this game i had read alot about it and watched many trailers, and 
 already the hype was huge so there was alot of pressure on the game to impressed. Overall i was 
 impressed the graphics are stunning and the climbing/free running is perfection, BUT levels which 
 you are running around all seem to look the same just with different lights or brick colour. the 
 Fighting could be improved because its mainly baised around you, standing still for like a minute 
 waiting for your enemy to attack, so you can counter. for the first 4 assassinations its gripping, 
 interesting, and entertaining but after that it begins to drag, and become a chore more than fun. 
 After block 3 or so you begin to realise that you ve done basically everything there is to do, 
 and the game repeats itself. you find yourself killing to see what the next weapon is, which turns 
 out to be a rubbish dodge or a better looking sword with no extra moves or combos with it. overall 
 the game is a must buy because you can spend hours free roaming i one of the very large cities 
 or you could try to find the highest leapp of faith 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jezza141234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing its THE best game i've ever played and the critics are talking crap when they 
 say 8.3 its more like 9.99 + 0.01 its perfect difficulty perfect graphics no glitches as far as 
 i could tell and perfect gameplay and believe the hype because what ubisoft said is what it is 
 perfect in everyway the ultimate game for any serious gamer it has everything climb and use anything 
 assassinate or go in swords blazing sneak or cause a riot play the way you want to play. buy this 
 game and enjoy the bliss of having the ultimate game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvandingo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Please!, please! before you buy this game, rent it, because for all its unquestionable beauty it 
 just fails to get you lost in its world.
  At the start of the game i was waiting for something else to happen, something that would make 
 me forget my real life and get me hooked and craving for my next go as if my life depended on it. 
 
  It never happened.
  Trust me after climbing the 14th viewpoint or slaying the 134th bad guy your just left simply BORED 
 stupid!.
  Im gutted but i cant kid myself anymore, yes the game look stunning, yes at first the easy movement 
 and fighting skills of your character "wow" you with a counter move here and there ,that looks 
 breathtaking but the level design is terrible the stealth system in the game is poor, You just 
 go from place to place carring out objectives that get so repetitive you will honestly lose the 
 will to live.
  So many great ideas and touches have been put into this game ,its a crying shame it doesnt work 
 as a whole.
  I really cannot understand how the game has recieved such good reviews because its not that good 
 at all.
  However with such big amazing environments that are beautifully built and a control system which 
 is almost TOO simple (even fighting gets boring) but still a great joy at times, I would like to 
 see a sequel. This should be used as a tech demo, something to build on.
  There is a lot of good bits in the game but ultimately nothing in between to gel them together.
 
  Sort out level design, totally rework the stealth mechanics from scratch and there is a great 
 game somewhere. br / 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamegod
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I'd been following this gaming since its first preview, so, as you can imagine, i had a sleepless 
 night before it was released because of the anticipation which had built up, and unusually enough, the 
 hype around this game wasnt its downfall, it really has none in my eyes.
  
  Graphics - the graphics in this game, are absolutely fantastic, beautifully detailed environments 
 and good enemy/civillian detail gives a. c a living feel to it, the bustling streets really show 
 the graphics to there full potential. Though so minor frame rate issues effect tightly packed streets, its 
 not a big enough problem to detract from the fun.
  
  Sound - i dont know if it's just me, but i loved the sound that the mini blade Altair use's makes 
 when you exspose it... anywayyyy, the sound throughout a. c is neither here nor there, sometimes it 
 skips, and while killing an enemy, its silent, other than that, everything is average and sounds the 
 way you'd expect it to.
  
  Gameplay - i've read a number of threads and reviews from other players, that the control system 
 was hard to get a-hold of... i cant disagree more, i thought the controls were intuitive and natural, never 
 makin the game feel anything other than organic.
  
  Story - i dont wanna give to much away, so ill just say the basic story ... in 1152AD the holy war 
 is raging, and as Altair ( (an assassin) ) you have to eliminate 9 of the most powerful and evil people 
 within 3 main districts, damascus, juruselum and acre. Although at the begining, the targets seem very 
 indefferent, later in the game, you'll piece together what connects all of these targets...
  
  Summary - All in all, apart from some minor frame rate and popping anomolies, this game is highly 
 addictive, and very rewarding, it has a deep story and pleanty of things to do. Buy this game, you 
 wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitesilver
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Controls are simple, graphics are easy on the eyes, amazing 1080i HD on my 55" screen.
  Soo smooth and soo intense, the battles are a bit too controled but its nothing that would stop 
 me from recommending the game, storyline is intense, listen to hard rock as you play this game 
 from start to finish it will deffinatly intensify the gameplay..
  
  The sciFi part of the game really dresses up the story line giving it that edge most game storylines 
 lack, you know your and assassin and you will be killing people and thats it but your never really 
 sure what is going to happen next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos_OMEGA
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  When Assassins Creed was shown to the public in E3 2006 people were just amazed on how appealing 
 the style of game was. It caught a lot of attention that week and ever since then it was a highly 
 anticipated game by everyone. And now it's finally here... does it live up to its expectations? 
 Yes. Does it deliver one of the greatest gaming experiences ever? Not quite. But it should never 
 have to. No game is perfect, some games have come very close but even with its flaws Assassins 
 Creed is a fantastic achievement that delivers a unique and exciting experience.
  
  
  Without spoiling too much, the story revolves around the past and present. The transition is done 
 well and even though it's confusing and out of place during the beginning it all comes together 
 and gradually gains momentum as you progress. There are a few twists here and there and are very 
 enjoyable to see unfold. The ending is left with a surprising cliff-hanger and is not concluded 
 in the most satisfying way but this game is a part of a Trilogy so to speak. All in all the entire 
 Story is well written and told through fantastically directed "in-game" cut scenes, it will keep 
 you enticed throughout the game.
  
  Sound
  
  Next generation games not only need to look great but also sound great, and for the most part Assassin's 
 Creed does a great job, unfortunately a few VA quirks and variety bring it down. Luckily it doesn't 
 affect the experience too much to matter, however a more varied musical score and better voice 
 work would have been nice. VA is top notch apart from many of the civilians who will say the same 
 thing over and over, and while at first it's tolerable by the end it can be annoying. Not only 
 that but the quality of the voice isn't that great to begin with. 
  The music in this game is great, and suits the atmosphere the game provides. It could however be 
 a little bit more ambitious in trying to use more symphonic scores to immerse the player more. 
 Overall the sound quality is great but not perfect. Same applies to the music.
  
  Graphics
  
  Just too quickly note, you are not doing this game justice by playing it on an 
 SD screen. This is one of those games that look amazing on any screen but significantly better 
 on a HD screen. Reasons for this is because the draw distance in this game is superb and when you 
 are viewing in HD those details are of the highest quality and it just looks spectacular. Anyway 
 as I've breezily mentioned this game does look unbelievably good. Not just artistically but technically 
 as well. To call it the best looking console game wouldn't be exaggerating, even though there are 
 other contenders. The character models look solid and so do the animations, but it's the detail 
 on the surroundings that make this stand out, every building you climb, rooftop you explore the 
 detail is incredible and will make you feel like you're actually there. 
  
  This brings to my next point about atmosphere. The games graphics and expansive detail bring the 
 world to life and you can just run around for long periods of time just climbing and jumping around. 
 It doesn't get boring and can be very fun, especially with the interactive crowd.
  
  Gameplay
  
  What is a game with amazing graphics without Gameplay? Not that good and this subject 
 has been the talking point among many of the professional reviews given to this game. While I'm 
 not allowed to discuss others opinions in my review I will state that the interpretation of repetitive 
 gameplay isn't always seen as a negative thing, especially if other elements work well. And in 
 Assassins Creed they do.
  
  First of all the game is based on a number of main missions, in each mission you are told to assassinate 
 one person. The side missions leading up to this require you to gain information on your assassination 
 target. These small tasks consist of finding benches and eavesdropping; pick pocketing people and 
 stealth killing guards for "Informers". There are others like interrogating people and collecting 
 Flags for again..."Informers". Throughout the game each assassination requires you to gain info 
 on your target and each time you visit a new city you will be doing the things I've mentioned above. 
 There isn't much else to it than that, and it can be repetitive towards the end but not in a way 
 where you will stop playing that's for sure, the atmosphere of the game helps you look past these 
 even though they are there and can be tedious. 
  
  The assassinations themselves vary quite a bit. For instance one of them require you to chase your 
 target through roofs and streets while another you are climbing around huge buildings and getting 
 to a specific room. One instance you are taking on several targets and you have to find them. Each 
 target scenario is different so it helps null out some of the repetition in the game.
  
  Now let's talk about the combat. It's either a love hate type of combat. Love in terms of it has 
 its depth and can be mastered later on in the game and hate as in it's uninteresting in terms of 
 how you are mashing the buttons. The counter kills in this game look great and is probably the 
 easiest move to pull off. This however is what people may do all the time... in that case combat 
 can feel repetitive but it does have other properties; For example there are 3 types of attacks, 
 combo, counter (already mentioned) and the Defence Break. When you learn all these 3 extensively 
 and use them in a varied way against your foes the combat feels more exciting. 
  
  Altair has 3 weapons, short blade Long sword and Hidden blade. The hidden blade is only used for 
 Stealth kills, basically walking up people and using "X" command kills them instantly. This works 
 for your Main targets too. The Knives (short- Blade) can be used in close combat as a fast paced 
 weapon or as a projectile weapon in long range. You will need to pickpocket these "knives" from 
 thieves in the cities. The Long sword is used in close combat only.
  
  The other aspect of gameplay is the plat-forming, which AC almost perfects. Climbing around and 
 jumping from building to building is simply amazing and superbly designed. The jumping has its 
 flaws in that its automatic and you are restricted in your movement. However the climbing in this 
 game IS perfect. Everything you see that you think you can climb... You can. Buildings were superbly 
 designed for scaling and Altair can grab onto anything that can be realistically grabbed onto. 
 This is good because during this game you will be doing a lot of climbing due to the inclusion 
 of these "view points" tall buildings which open up parts of the map. In a sense Gameplay is probably 
 the weakest link in Assassins Creed but it's still a lot of fun to play which is the main thing.
 
  
  Replay Value
  
  The World in Assassins Creed is Gigantic and it would be pretty silly if there wasn't' anything 
 to do, luckily there are but it depends on you willing to go and do it. Each of the three "big" 
 cities has side missions such as Saving Citizens from Guards and climbing view points. Others include 
 collecting Flags and Killing Templers. These are all "search and execute" tasks and are not required 
 to complete the main game. Finding all the viewpoints in this game can be fun and some are required 
 to finding new investigation targets during the main missions. Collecting flags however have no 
 purpose other than Achievement points (on 360 only) and can be very tedious. If you are dedicated 
 and wish to achieve these then you will spend well over 40 hours in doing it. Main Game takes around 
 12-15 hours depending on how many extra missions you do.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Assassins Creed is simply put an "awesome" game. It's the kind of game (referring to GS review) 
 that you will want to tell your friends about, it has a great story combined with slick gameplay 
 and a phenomenal world that's ingeniously designed for you to explore and free roam in. If you 
 are hesitant on buying this game then rent it for a couple of days and try and complete it. But 
 make sure to play it because it is one of the most unique and imaginative experiences this year 
 and is bound to thoughrely entertain a large number of people.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed actually took me by surprise. I never expected the whole storyline to revolve around 
 an experiment in modern times to retrieve memories of some guys ancestor from his DNA. Seeing the 
 previews I originally thought it would just have to do with the Crusades. This new modern part 
 has a mystery to it that adds depth to the story. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Okay... so the graphics are downright amazing. There are so many people moving around in big or 
 small crowds at once, and I don't really see any slowdowns at all. The lighting really makes Altair's 
 clothes and his modern version's sweatshirt just... GLOW in the sunlight. It's just amazing. The 
 way the character models move and the footing is so natural, which makes a BIG difference. Oh.... and 
 the environments are F**ing huge.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is crisp, and the sword hits and slashes are gross and wonderful. The voice acting is 
 good and the music is cool. To hear the croud scream out in fear when you land from a building 
 twenty feet in the air... it's damned cool.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  So the controls are slick, just like Prince of Persia. Very very smooth and reactive controls. 
 Being able to climb and jump from anywhere, counter any attack, push anyone around... it makes you 
 really feel like you are in that world, and this is a thing that many games haven't been able to 
 do or have lacked that really does take something to the next level. This is scarily realistic. 
 
  
  Everything just reacts to you, you run and people are like WTF or they scream and run. I'd say 
 that WOW moment happened when some old beggar was irritating me and I grabbed her and threw her 
 into some guy's pottery stand. The whole thing collapsed and two people died. The whole crowd went 
 NUTS!! Just wow. 
  
  I have to give this game a 10, if it keeps me THAT entertained nonstop then it's perfect and I 
 hope many people will agree with me.
  
  Overall, this game may not be SUPER groundbreaking, but I think that the sheer amount of reactivity 
 is very fresh and new. Everyone reacts in their own way, so it's as real as it gets. Basically, 
 the guys at Ubisoft took things that we love (climb stuff, people react, etc..) and applied it 
 to everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_common6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Beats the hype but there are bits were they talk for to long but still proper good. love assassing 
 guards but wish you could do the same to innocents without losing health. free running rocks. the 
 leap of faiths are amazing. but best of all a great storyline. i love assassing the targets. ut 
 long talking times have made me put it at 9.5 if you could skip the talking it would be the perfect 
 game for the perfect console. i hope it comes a sequel.
  
  so a quick recap.
  everythings perfect except the talking. i strongly recommend this game to anyone whos unsure about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamilAhmed1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an amazing game. Stunning visuals, gameplay and sound make this game good. 
 But, these alone cannot make a good game. And Assassin's Creed is, like I said, an amazing game.
 
  
  There are two storylines for you two immerse yourself in. In one of them you will be playing as 
 Desmond, an average Joe in the modern day who gets kidnapped. In the other, you shall play as Desmond's 
 ancestor: Altair (Al-Ta-Eer) .
  
  There are many plot twists in this game but you don't feel as though it's been clichd. The music 
 is atmospheric, the fight sequences make your pulse race and there is a really good stealth element 
 in the game.
  
  There are a few glitches here and there and some of your stayed weapons clip through you.
  
 
  Overall, this game gets a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  "Seriously what an atonishing graphics", that will you said if you are playing this game right 
 now. You know, since this game were released, i'll think Assassin's Creed is the game that used 
 Xbox 360 full potential capablities after Gears of War. The graphics, the gameplay, are all the 
 best except a few confusing ending. But the gameplay are too realistic make it a great combination 
 with it's detailed graphics. When you played this game, surely you want to try again and you can 
 tell your friends at home if their didn't try and see the Assassin's Creed, they must try it. Enough 
 said, for users outhere that has PS3 or 360, comment from me, make sure this game is in your library 
 collection, and it if not, your surely want a regret someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  SUMMARY:
  The good outweighs the bad. I think if I did not have Mass Effect sitting here waiting to play 
 I would not have been so annoyed with some aspects of this game. I really did just want to get 
 it done so I could move on to Mass Effect. I guess in a way that says I was bored with AC on the 
 other hand I probably will go back and, if not replay the game, at least try to get all the achievements. 
 I did have fun with this game, I think it's a good game and in some respects great. maybe even 
 supurb. but I cant help thinking that they just missed the pitch. I would expect a home run with 
 AC2 though.
  
  I recommend a buy, even at full price. 
  I think if someone picks this up in a bargin bin later, however, they will be more forgiving and 
 quite pleased with the buy.
  
  DETAILS:
  I am not sure what to say it's quite the mixed bag. At times I loved this game, at times I despised 
 it and just wanted it over but was interested enough in the story to see how it ended. The ending 
 was.... underwhelming. I noted I got the complete game achievement but no credits so I wandered 
 around a bit and found nothing to do. I started randomly pressing buttons and finally found the 
 thing that triggered the credits (I'm trying not to spoil, such as it is) . I waited for the credits 
 for hoping the tag would give me some satisfaction but it really didn't. Its cool that I can go 
 back and replay any level and gather flags and such but otherwise I don't see the point of the 
 tag other then to read yes READ the epilogue for Altairthat was a bit of a let down (unless I 
 am missing something, but at this point I am sick of looking) .
  
  GOOD THINGS:
  Graphics: They were great although there is quite a lot of tearing and the occasional frame rate 
 drop. I will forgive as the graphics were really good. Great character models an animations, cloth 
 physics, and the cities really seemed quite full and alive. Best job of bringing a city to life 
 that I have seen. Also great vistas and the cities were very authentic looking.
  
  Sound: Environmental were great, the music was fit well in the game and added to the mid-east sense. 
 The voice acting was all well done. The low spot was your own characters voice. He really didn't 
 seem to fit in when Altair. The voice itself was not acted badly, it was just very.. American I 
 guess and it jarred you.
  
  Controls: I love them AND hate them. I really like the combat being able to switch from enemy to 
 enemy, anticipating which one was going to attack and countering or sidestepping or breaking a 
 grab. I liked the slick moves you could pull off. I did do some button mashing from time to time, 
 but that's all on me, the fighting is best done when more relaxed and not mashingthen it can be 
 really cool. The climbing worked well when you were off on your own climbing. The controls broke 
 down when you got panicked or had to quickly get away, then you would grab things you didn't mean 
 to or be unable to make a jump you should be able to. Again perhaps it was me, but the buttons 
 such as "drop" to drop down were not as responsive as I would have liked and left me hanging (literally) 
 a couple of times. The horse riding (and fighting on horseback) controlled well and I would have 
 liked to have seen that in Oblivion.
  
  Cutscenes: I really liked the way they handled the ingame cutscenes and being able to switch camera. 
 It was quite cinematic and cool. 
  
  Save system: I was never too far from where I needed to be when I died. I would have liked the 
 ability to reset from last checkpoint though if I blew a mission. Waiting for those guys to kill 
 me so I get set back to the last checkpoint took freaking forever. Mad dashes to escape from them 
 also took forever and left me away from where I wanted to be, so normally I just let them kill 
 me. 
  
  
  BAD THINGS:
  There was no stealth mechanic in this game, which is odd, considering you're an assassin. I would 
 have liked to have hidden and slowly snuck up and assassinate more then I did. Mostly I would pick 
 a target (guard on roof) and sprint toward him and do the assassination, it was cool but sometimes 
 when there is more then one I would have preferred more stealth. The final battles didn't even 
 give you an option to be stealthy; just fightlots of guys (unless I missed something) .
  
  Beggars, crazy guys, drunken guys. Their sole purpose appeared to be to annoy the player. I must 
 say it was quite successful. I don't know if I have been this annoyed since Cliff Racers in Morrowind. 
 Very, VERY freaking annoying game additionand way way to frequent. I was not too fond of not being 
 able to skip through "informants" speeches either especially considering the beggars and drunk 
 guys made my completing their stealth assignments (freaking TIMED stealth assignments no less) 
 a little difficult on first couple of tries.
  
  MISSIONS: They were repetitive. This normally doesn't bother me. I am a shooter fan and every mission 
 is about the same there too. HOWEVER, when you have to rescue people and such it would be nice 
 if the second guy you rescue doesn't say the EXACT SAME THING as the guy you rescued first. and 
 again you cant skip through it. They really needed more scripts to make things at least seem like 
 you weren't doing the same thing over and over. or let you skip.
  
  GAME LENGTH: It was long, 20 hours or so It's a good deal for the price, but I cant help wonder 
 if my impressions would have been better had it been a tad shorter due to the repetitiveness. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a good strong game with its immense game play and probably the best graphics 
 on any game this year by far with so much detail you can see the creases in the clothes and even 
 the wrinkles in characters faces and the true meaning of BLOOD.
  
  With the title 'masterpiece' this truly is a 'masterpiece' because of fighting is so realistic 
 with counters like stabbing them in the foot and then slicing their throat open,
  Kick them in their manly hood area and then shoving the sword in to the area of the shoulder/neck.
 
  So basically you and a weapon=lots and lots of blood and death which is fun. Anyway you play as 
 an assassin called Altair in 1191 ad Jerusalem during the brutal times of the third crusade, plus 
 you also have a jump called the leap of faith where you climb to the top of view points (let u 
 see new parts of the map) go to the edge of the building and jump into stacks of hay.
  
  
  However there is sum unrealistic things about this game is that when you are fighting are there 
 is loads and loads of blood all over the place the amazing thing is that you get absolutely none 
 on you which is strange and you cant crouch I no it sounds stupid with all the amazing graphics 
 and immense game play they forget to let you crouch which is a bit weird. Any way I still give 
 this game a perfect 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pelican_echo419
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Weather just looking at the scenery or stealthily assassinating a target Assassin's Creed is one 
 of those games that you just love. With breath taking graphics a very amersive story and astounding 
 gameplay Assassins Creed deliverd all I expected and a whole lot more. The story sees you play 
 an assassin during the crusades and has a very nice difficulty curve and upgrades are good and 
 often so all players will be countering breaking grabs an combo killing in no time.
  The world feels real and all N. P. C's are aweare of you and react accordingly
  all the voice acting 
 is amazing and the min characters and enviroments look amazing.
  The story takes you on different missions weather it be easedropping pickpocketing and assassinations 
 it is all fun although admitidly it can be a bit repetitive,.
  In the end Assassin's Creed is grate and well worth the price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  So much to say about this game but yet i don't know how to start. I'll begin by talking about the 
 story, brilliant. At the start of the game i was hardly interested in what was going on with Altair 
 and the Holy Land and why the game would progress and for what meaning. When i reached my 4th assassination 
 the story seemed to kick in then memory and reality wise. 
  Now I'll talk about the game in general, brilliant still. The massive game doesn't seem that big 
 when you ride a horse through the kingdom or even free run to your destination. view points are 
 fun to get as well for three things:
  1. Climbing
  2. Leap of faith
  and to open the map.
  The physics and detail put into the game make it worth your time, which 
 is around 15 hours. The crowd only adds realism into the game instead of a barrier when your getting 
 away from the guards who are easy to kill. After you learn how to combo you can kill 20 guards 
 in no more then 7 minuets until you fight templars who are the most experienced fighters discluding 
 the assassination targets. And the one hit kill thing isnt even in the game as they said the game 
 would contain this feature but in my opinion i can live without it seeing how the game progress 
 ever ones better off without it.
  Now a short bit about the free running, good. Yes i though I'd love to jump around but when you 
 play the game you just want to finish it leaving no time for kidding around. The free running isnt 
 perfect but will have to do as it was enough for me to finish the game and swiftly get around unnoticed.
 
  So thats about it really, after all that time i was disappointed about one thing... the fact the 
 game ended and for an insult it ended as a cliff hanger... WHY!!! So estimating the next one to 
 be released in the year 2011 all i can do know is wait and hope for more amazing games to be released 
 in the four year gap such as GTA, Gears of war 2 etc. Hope ubisoft are developing the next prince 
 of persia and learn of what a great success assassins creed was and will always be. Make the next 
 on perfect and it will be the greatest game ever, not like this one isnt a competitor. Cant wait 
 for the next game in the franchise hope the next xbox isnt released by then. So all i have to say 
 now is it was worth the 4 years of development.
  Thank you.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altriak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the best thing about this game is being able to climb/walk to and 
 part of the city with ease. Nevertheless, here's is what I've found while playing the game
  
  Sound and Graphics- The graphics in this game are absolutely stunning. The fact that they made 
 everything seem so realistic, and well placed is astonishing. I had first thought that being able 
 to climb wherever you went meant several forcibly placed ledges that looked awkward and out of 
 place. However, all the architecture in the building is fitting, and doesn't really give you the 
 idea that they were meant for climbing at all. However, there is some noticeable need for graphical 
 smoothing when textures transfer from being far away to up close. Often you'll find a straight 
 line that separates the non-blended textures. Also, there are often times when shadows cast look 
 blocky. However, these shouldn't really interfere with game-play unless you're a hardcore graphics 
 maniac.
  
  The sound and voice acting is great. Ironically enough, the worst voice acting comes from Altair, 
 the main character. It's unfortunate that his voice sounds so forced. I get the idea that he's 
 trying to sound like a cold-hearted assassins.. but it comes off more as having an unenthusiastic 
 actor. That, and he is the only character in the game that doesn't have an accent. Nevertheless, 
 the rest of the voice actors are superb, right down to the beggar's voice. It makes you wish you 
 had "just a few coins" to spare.
  
  Gameplay- As I mentioned before, the best thing about this game is the ability to climb around 
 everywhere. The concept is very refreshing and fits the theme of assassinations. The one gripe 
 I have is the repetitiveness of the game. The basic steps you take are, climb a tower to find investigation 
 points, beat up or kill some target a few times, then assassinate your target. You do this nine 
 times. Then there's the few citizens you have to save from being bullied, but those aren't even 
 really necessary. Despite the repetitiveness, I still thoroughly enjoyed the ability to find a 
 prime hiding spot in order to stab someone in the neck.
  
  There are other problems, however. It should be mentioned that hiding from guards is way too hard, 
 not because you can't get away from them, but you can never properly find a hiding spot. Either 
 the hiding spots on the map don't indicate how high your hiding spot is, or the hiding spot just 
 plain isn't there. Then, there are hiding spots you'll find that aren't indicated on the map at 
 all. It becomes rather frustrating trying to find a hiding spot, to the point where you just want 
 save time by fighting the guards.
  
  In terms of story, I personally enjoyed it. I didn't find the ending confusing at all, but it was 
 clearly made as a first in a series. I'm never fond of that, because it just seems like a milking 
 scheme. In terms of the "twist", I wish they had put it in the middle of the game, so there was 
 some mystery to why all the glitchiness was happening.
  
  Controls- The controls are great, and simple to learn. It boils down to two categories. Outside 
 of combat, you have your active (running, tackling, jumping, climbing) and passive abilities (blend, 
 pickpocket) . Within combat you have your defensive (counter attack, counter grab) and offensive 
 abilities (attack, throw) , all off which is activated by a simply RT press. Climbing walls and jumping 
 around is quite a simple feat, often only involving a press of the RT. However, at times, when 
 running away from guards, Altair tends to do things unintuitive like jumping onto handrails, or 
 climbing up a wall that has no proper holdings. It doesn't happen a lot, but can become frustrating 
 at times. 
  
  Overall, the game is great, but could have been a prime game if it had a little more variety and 
 polish.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Man,.. this game is incredible! One of the first games that matched the hype.
  Well to start off it's an action game with a great storyline (so far) , the graphics will make your 
 jaw drop, the AI are going to make you feel like you're there, the missions I have to admit are 
 repetitie (If you go about your assassinations the same way every time) , the fighting system is 
 very fun and easy once you get new moves (which is in the beginning of the game) , and the towns 
 are amazing looking and almost anywhere you can see, you can go. I say one of the best games of 
 the year as do many others. A must buy for eveyone with a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snichols77
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  If you love Splinter Cell, Prince of Persia, Tomb Raider and a moderately open game environment 
 with *some* choices, you will enjoy this game for a couple of hours. The twisting and turning story 
 is gripping and fascinating, with a basis in real science and physics theories which is a refreshing 
 change to simple sci-fi games that don't fully explain "how" or "why" things are what they are. 
 In AC, you are given the option of learning more or simply playing through with no real depth to 
 the story. Unfortunately for those that love the story, missing a button press during a key scene 
 can screw up the game for you, bypassing much of what you learn about your situation. Definitely 
 a big thumbs-down in my opinion, given the story is the only real substance to this game.
  
  As far as being compared to Splinter Cell, you have the flexibility and agility to climb basically 
 anything, but it quickly becomes redundant and boring as many areas you are forced to climb for 
 achievements (or getting to the next goal in a chapter) don't take much thought, whereas in Splinter 
 Cell or Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider, you would really have to think your way around a situation. 
 Most of the enemy AI is pretty dumb and silly, and they quickly become easy to overcome in hordes, 
 even as 5-10 of them are shooting arrows at you or throwing rocks at you to knock you off a structure. 
 It's simply just too easy to avoid their detection or attacks whether exploring the world or during 
 an assassination mission.
  
  There is no difficulty setting in this game and that is a huge drawback in my opinion, as they 
 could have increased enemy damage and made structures a little harder to navigate. I can think 
 of only 3 areas in the entire game where I had to actually look around and see the path to take 
 to get where I needed to go. The combat system is basic and too easy to master. You can instantly 
 kill enemy after enemy by pressing a button when they move towards you. Combo system? A complete 
 joke. Press a button then another once your sword hits and another enemy bites the dust. About 
 the only thing in combat that is even remotely fun is dodging instead of countering or resisting 
 a grab. Aside from that, combat gets pretty old, pretty quickly once you've gotten the basic moves.
 
  
  The story progression (while interesting in itself) is very short, with a handful of "chapters" 
 containing highly redundant missions and then the simple end core quests. The bulk of the side 
 achievements are very easy to accomplish. The core gameplay is around 8 hours if you take your 
 time, and about 60% of the side achievements can be accomplished on the way, just fooling around 
 or fighting. 
  
  The rest of the achievements consist of running around cities and the countryside finding tens 
 to hundreds (yes 2 sets have hundreds) of little flags hidden on buildings and so forth. Basically 
 it's an incentive to go see the world they built. A world that at first seems very open and interactive 
 but quickly becomes redundant and repetitive. Another building to climb that requires no thought 
 or effort. Another dozen guards to fight that do virtually no damage if you sit and hold right 
 trigger to parry and then hit A or X to dodge or instantly counter them and kill them. Or run back 
 and throw knives and lay waste to an entire crowd of guards.
  
  Your hands will become tired from holding the triggers and buttons to climb or fight, and your 
 patience will run thin with climbing the "high spots" to progress forward in areas. Sure, there 
 are a few perks such as seeing large rendered cities from a very high tower or cliff, then swan 
 dive 1000ft off into a stack of hay, but it gets old after the 10th time, and you are required 
 to do this about 80 times.
  
  The bottom line is your character even at the most basic level is too powerful. The guards are 
 too dumb and weak, and the environment is very redundant from the repetitive sounds and words to 
 the beggars and thugs. Even the visuals aren't varied. They didnt vary the graphical look of the 
 residents much at all, and only barely segregated the guard types. Dead Rising created more variety 
 with it's massive crowds and hordes of zombies. AC barely put any effort into it. 
  
  The enemy AI is really one of the biggest disappointments, and you will quickly grow frustrated 
 at how easy it is to kill various side-quest targets and simply run away from dozens of guards 
 with zero effort, or kill them all and walk away as if nothing happened. Trying to even round up 
 25 guards in the countryside is almost impossible. Many will simply walk off and not bother chasing 
 you after a minute, because the AI is so weak. You can assassinate side targets and as they are 
 falling to the ground, sprint through a crowd of marching guards, knocking some over even and illicit 
 no response.
  
  Sure, it's the middle ages and escaping might be a bit easier but c'mon you are fairly unique looking 
 amongst the citizens with your white hooded outfit and red sash and sword. Being noticed at all 
 and holding a button to slowly "blend" is hardly ever needed and when it is, it is pretty weak 
 having to spend 5 minutes to walk out of a small area because your character moves so slow while 
 trying to avoid the guards and blend.
  
  Hearing the speakers in the squares every 30 feet in any town or city repeating the same speech 
 gets frustrating, and my hand is on my mute button most of the time. At the end of the game, you 
 are wishing you just got all of the achievements along the way so you absolutely do not have to 
 play this thing again. There is nothing you could do the second time around except collect flags 
 or try and assassinate targets with zero alerts (impossible anyway) and a "full DNA bar" which 
 no one is even clear about, since I have had friends do that and have yet to unlock the achievement.
 
  
  This game is a 2 hour "wow, really neat" and then a finish and return to the store type of thing. 
 I bought the collectors edition because they were out of the standard edition and hopefully i can 
 get my money back for the most part via eBay or something.
  
  I rate it a 7 for the great story and fairly good graphics, but there is really nothing innovative 
 or unique about the actual gameplay. Prince of Persia, Tomb Raider, and Splinter Cell easily out-class 
 this game in terms of challenge, thought of how to approach a situation and control features and 
 style mechanics. Simply making the combat system more complex or tougher, or the enemy AI smarter 
 would have been a huge improvement. 
  
  Personally, the book version of this game would have sold better. It's really a great story, but 
 not much of a video game. I highly recommend you save your money and get Mass Effect instead.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  The game itself has everything from a great graphical point to a truly terrific storyline.
  It is one of the best games to date on a next Gen console and leaves a totally unmisable sense 
 of hype and stunning cliff hanger for the sequel.
  Visually the graphics are superb however a small amount of minor glitches haunt me but there is 
 nothing big and could surely be fixed with a simple path so nothing to worry about there. 
  The controlls work well and are very simple and easy to get used too but not stressful at any point 
 in the game as they are all responsive when being chased by so many guards and enemies. 
  Not only but the combat system is both realistic and intuative as there is a wide selection moves 
 you can pull off from cool counters to combo moves and if you feel angry you can just hack and 
 slash. 
  Finally you can use a wide range of weapons from 3 types of swords 2 type of shot sword increased 
 amount of throwing knives your fists and even a little shady assasination blade where you figure 
 has been cut off.
  So kudo to Ubisoft Montereal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitchen007
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Ok I was expecting this totally immersive experience and instead I got this linear pile of crap. 
 Ok yeah it is a pretty game to look at and the idea was great (except the future crap) but talk 
 about horribly executed. The game itself felt so linear and bland. Nothing to explore. You can't 
 even interact with NPC's except shoving them. I found myself very irritated with the whole future 
 thing, not to mention the (fast forwarding to a more recent memory) The missions were boring and 
 repetitive. I can't for the life of me figure out why people are rating this so well. I myself 
 was not happy. It wasn't even worth the rental fee. Moved on to Mass effect and so far am much 
 happier.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiiiiinnnnnnnnn
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  i was looking forward to this game for a while then saw the review on gamespot thort cool went 
 to get it the next day got it home started to play strait away i thort the grathics are cool some 
 of the best iv seen in a game played for the first hour killed the first boss everything leading 
 up to was pretty basic misson rescue a bunch od pesents from the guards pickpocktin climin towers 
 and so on and thats all the game is apart for the boss kill which have sum pretty cool cut seens 
 all in game i just found the game to repetertive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all this is a beautifull game, seriously. Its one of the best klookking games out on 
 the 360.
  Second the Controls after about 5-10 mins feel good and natural only bad thing to say here would 
 be the tutorial is badly done could and should have been better.
  Really good storyline the only real bad point about it is that it is POORLY laid out since the 
 first 10 minutes of so should have been put into the 1-2 hour slot of the game.
  sounds is great and very realistic and keeps to the games storyline.
  Generally this is a very 
 good game it does have some down point but most games have those. since they decided to keep the 
 gameplay "realistic" as in the way you fight it will get a little boring but it would simply look 
 stupid if you were to put in over the top 500 hit combos. this is about an assassin and they keep 
 it simple.
  Overall the game keep u playing to find out more about the storyline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supervixengirl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is the latest ingenious development to be released by Ubisoft who has delivered 
 us already with several solid hit games & I truly feel that Assassins Creed can only be added along 
 to that list as it puts forth every aspect of the next gen technology.
  This game offers up many unique & memorable elements that are spread out over the storyline, graphics, 
 schematics, gameplay & controls. 
  First off the storyline , Assassins Creed 1191AD takes place at the time of the Third Crusade. 
 You take on the role of Altair, a member of the Hashshashin / Assassins Order. Your goal is to 
 journey thru the lands of Damascus , Acre & Jerusalem ; assassinating nine men who are exploiting 
 the hostilities of the crusade & to bring back peace & stability to the lands.
  Secondly we have the gameplay which at times can seem to be repetitive with some not so smart ai 
 & batles, but for the most part it is intense & fast paced . The chase scenes being one of my favorite 
 features as you run along the rooftops trying to shake the guards off of your tail. 
  Next the controls of which allow the gamer to be like a puppeteer with altair on the end of the 
 strings & they are control each of his moves & actions. The controls are simple to follow & very 
 well laid out for the game play. 
  Lastly we have the graphics, these are some of the most amazing environments that i have scene 
 in a game in quite a long time, I almost feel as tho I am journeying right there with Altair thru 
 each of these cities. These scenes from the rooftops as you look out onto the city are breathtakingly 
 beautiful. The visuals are quite very impressive.
  I am leaving out the plot twist of the storyline as not to ruin or spoil the game for those that 
 have yet to play.
  For those that were prince of persia fans then this game will definitely fill that void of the 
 craving for a new pop game & those looking for a solid action adventure game then i highly suggest 
 that you rent or pick up a copy of Assassins Creed & let your inner assassin be released. In a 
 year that has been filled with FPS after FPS , I feel Assassins Creed stands out strong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Hey
  
  Before i start, i would like to get a few pointers clear:
  1) If you don't like my OPINION on ANY game, don't send me hate mails
  2) I have the right to 
 express my opinion
  I have said this, because people have got 4 of my review banned because they didn't agree (halo 
 3 and gears of war were 2 of them) , and as a result i got a wave of hate mail.
  
  Ok, now to the review.
  
  Assassins creed is the latest game from Ubisoft Montreal. Promising 
 loads, but keeping few. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are defiantly impressive, however, theres so many problems. The draw distance is shockingly 
 short, especially outside of the cities. All the civilians look the same, and so do all the guards. 
 The only good looking characters are you, and the 9 targets, and a few main characters. This is 
 rather disappointing. Although in saying that, the cities are HUGE, and look fantastic, and they 
 did a great job in getting it looking historically accurate. The cinematic combat is also pretty 
 nice, making it feel like a movie in some respects.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is rather bad, but the voice acting is pretty sweet. Apart from ONE person. Altier, the 
 main character. Everyone else has a middle eastern accent and he has a american accent. Why? i 
 dont no. Everytime he talks it annoys me, and it almost ruins the entire sound part of the game 
 in my opinion. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Repetitive. You do the same thing in the side missions about 30 times. It may be fun for the first 
 6 or 7, then you realize, wait i just helped that guy 5 mins ago, oh wait its a different guy cos 
 he has a different colour shirt, but has the exact same mission, hmm boring. The main mission though 
 is just as boring. You go around and kill 9 dudes. This is where Ubisoft lied, the first time. 
 They said "You can pick how and when to kill them". No, you have to kill at a certain time, and 
 you can either run in and attack with your sword, or attempt a assassination, wow, fun. The story 
 however, is filled with twists and turns to constantly keep you guessing. Well, if you have a half 
 a brain you should be able to work out every twist and turn before you even get to them, i think 
 i worked out who everyone was, who the final bad guy was and guessed that one person was a spy 
 after the first assassination. Mabe thats just me but, im guessing others will find it similar. 
 Also, it ends with a crap cliff hanger which annoyed me. Another thing was "Assassins Creed will 
 feature online". Really? did they just forget that they said that? or did they hope know one would 
 remember? or did they just get lazy, i guess we will never know. Also, its very short, about 10 
 hours.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Its a decent game, but prepare to be disappointed... alot. Its not what ubisoft said it would be, 
 and they have missed out on an awesome opportunity to make a awesome game... to bad ey? 
  
  7.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MKCC13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  This game was so hyped it wasnt even funny, but I was one of the few that didn't. All of these 
 people was expecting this revolutionary type game that was going to be like the best game in history 
 and all of that extra stuff. It was totally unneccessary IMO. I knew the game was going to be a 
 best-seller and I would buy it on day one, like I did, but I didnt want to get in the hype. I love 
 this game now though, the story has me even more interested than ever.
  
  Ok, so the game starts and the sci-fi twist is revealed to us, we didnt expect this and some people 
 thought that this was a bad move by Ubi. It was a good move, because you would be confused throughout 
 the whole game if you didnt know about this plot twist. There are even more twists along the storyline 
 that will keep you thinking, especially with the cliff-hanger ending. I thought the game was presented 
 very well.
  
  Gameplay is what we really want to hear about here. Let me start off by saying that the side quests 
 do get repetitive, but to me it barely bothered me because I enjoyed doing them... and you only 
 have to do about 2-3 of them and not all 6 (plus saving the citizens and finding viewpoints) . When 
 it came to the assassinations though, they were all different and unique, you had many different 
 choices of how to take down your main target. Run in and fight all of his guards and kill him last 
 or kill him in the stealthy way... there are many different ways to go about these assassinations.
 
  
  The fighting is all about timing and not about hack n slash. I am glad it is this way, it is way 
 more enjoyable, plus the animations are very well done and I love watching the kill animations. 
 They are brutal, but they will have that moment where you kill someone with a combo kill or counter-attack 
 and you will be like "Woah". Running away isnt really an option, only when you get tired of fighting. 
 It isnt really that difficult. The chase sequences in the game were little to non-existant really. 
 I didnt choose to run away because you didnt need too, unless you sucked at the fighting. The game 
 is not that difficult.
  
  That isnt because of poor AI, I thought the AI is well done for an Ubi game, I liked the fact that 
 everytime you get new weapons or moves, the enemies get more dangerous and fight back more. They 
 start countering you and breaking your defense. It gets a bit tough at the end but to my skill 
 it wasnt frustratingly hard.
  
  Graphics are superb for an X360 game, especially with the size of the cities which are all different 
 it is amazing. Get to the highest tower and watch the whole kingdom... it is simply amazing. The 
 best thing about it is that you can go to anywhere you can see. Ubisoft did a great job, I just 
 wish there was a little more activities going on with the citizens instead of just basically walking 
 around and sitting on benches. Especially with no indoor gameplay at all.
  
  This is not a perfect game at all, but the good things about it outshines the little flaws throughout 
 the game. It is a buy and I do think it is worth the $60, because there is replayability. So go 
 get this game now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferno003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a well executed game... The graphics are good, and the game play is innovative 
 and very well executed, the free running works to perfection, and the fighting system is very well 
 executed... At times it may feel repetitive, but the game never stops being enjoyable... The fighting 
 is actually fresh change if you consider most of the games like this require you to remember log 
 button combos to fight, "Assassins Creed kept it simple and it proved to be fun..." The moves are 
 great, and the system handles fights with multiple enemies perfectly... The story was very enjoyable, 
 mostly due to its modern twist... I believe without it the games story probably would have been 
 dull... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casual33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Its all been said before, the graphics are ridiculous (right up there with GOW) , sound is great 
 (although a more prominent soundtrack i would have enjoyed ex. Fable) , premise is interesting and 
 unique, but the depth just isn't there. After playing this game I'm confident the creators have 
 set a bar that will hopefully rise higher in the next installment. It just needs some more variety 
 and immersion. Interact with more people, have buildings you can enter, more variety of missions, 
 different escapes, rewards for stealth assassinations, money, among many others. With so much hype 
 around this game its very hard to live up to the expectations, but this game is still fun to play 
 and is something amazing to build on for the sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friday04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how much fun this game is to play. The graphics are stunning (Xbox 360) and I find 
 myself being completely immersed in the game. The ability to interact with so many elements of 
 the game are truly "next-gen" features as Ubisoft's marketing likes to put it.
  
  From the very beginning you understand that you are in for a true story, not just a hack-and-slash. 
 For some this may be a bit tedious and boring and there's no way to skip through any of the dialog 
 (or if there is, I haven't discovered it yet) . But if you follow the story it makes the game more 
 interesting. You're actually there. Very immersive story line and definitely not the worst acting 
 I've ever heard in a video game.
  
  There are some strange behaviors where your character doesn't respond to your commands in a way 
 that you expected. This happens infrequently but when it does it's usually at a time you can least 
 afford it. I have no idea what kind of development time it took for them to create this free world 
 and all of it's movement so I guess I'm willing to forgive the slight glitches that occur.
  
  All-in-all, this game is every bit as engaging as Gears of War was when I first got that. For 
 me, this story line is more interesting so I feel like the whole experience is even more fun than 
 GoW which was an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preplook
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  now i don't have tons of games... ive played a lot, but only 7 games sit in my room... and this 
 is one of them... this is the best game I have ever played. its up there with Halo, Oblivion, Gears 
 of War, and Fable. but its on a totally different level. the story line is like a movie... plenty 
 of cut scenes and cool stuff to watch... yet you can choose to do whatever you want. it has the 
 best graphics i have ever seen... and i love how u can climb anything and go anywhere... the only 
 thing i didn't like was how fast the game went... but i guess thats why their making 3. but plenty 
 of stuff to keep you busy after the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been following this game for a while waiting for its release. So naturally I expected it 
 to be great. Well the graphics are amazing the idea of a midevil assassin is fantastic. But every 
 thing else brings this game down and down hard. First the fighting is bad. It is uninspiring and 
 lacks skill. Second the story is crap, and I mean crap! If they would have taken the stupid scientists 
 looking at your memorys out and just kept the meidevil it would have been great. In fact if you 
 really look at it you are changing your memorys, Which makes the entire story retarded and useless. 
 Third and this is the biggest thing, it is repetitive. OMG repetitive. Seriously could they I dont 
 know mix it up a little. Some one should have told them doing the same thing over and over is bad.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perphection
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassin Creed is based on a man whos bloodline leads to an Assassin from midevil times. It has 
 a very large playing area with limitless playing field. You are able to climb up, run across, and 
 jump off just about anything in the game.
  The game play is based on stealthy kills, aquiring information, and beating faces for answers. 
 However, that's basically all you do. For each mission you are given a town to go to, find info 
 on the bad guy by pick pocketing people and beating for information on were the person your searching 
 for is.
  With the ability to run up walls, scale buildings, and run across scaffeling you would think thath 
 there would be a large array of physical puzzles you would need to accomplish in order for you 
 to reach your objective. But, most building in the game are built basically on the same design, 
 and egins to become boring climbing through certain areas.
  The overall game play though, handles rather well. The buttons are configured so it is easy to 
 manuver through the task at hand. There are the occasional glitches that will cause you to not 
 let you jump when you want to and in certain areas, that 2 secs to work around the glitch can cost 
 you. Each person you lined up to assassinate has there own little way of presenting themselves 
 to you, and making it a challenge to kill them.
  The graphic quality is incredible. Every detail is flawless and beautifully coloured creating an 
 authentic feel to the game. To go along with that, I am yet to find a graphical glitch in the game.
 
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is an excelent game, it just begins to get repeditive. Perhaps in a 
 sequal we will see a broader playing scheme and a new array of abilities for our hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightimes420
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  More and more it feels like the gaming Industry has decided all It's resources would be better 
 spent on hype, and deception, then on actually making the games themselves.
  
  Before I begin my review I want to list the 3 things a game needs In order to be successful... 
 no I take that back (just look at the sales for halo 3) - in order to be GOOD.
  
  1. Storyline.
  
  games are a tool to tell a story. this is more important to some games then 
 to others, namely adventure/action games. A well thought out plot that demands the viewer/participant 
 to -think- instead of watching in a zombie like state.
  
  2. Game play 
  
  fluid controls, easy to use and understand without being overly simple. exciting action, realism, 
 physics. this adds believability to the game, increasing the enjoyment.
  
  3. Graphics
  
  This is a no brainer, obviously the better something looks, the more fun it's going to be to 
 experience
  
  
  with that out of the way, I'll give you a short review on this game and its staggering flaws, and 
 notable achievements in point form.
  
  Pros:
  
  -It looks amazing. yes we have established this in almost every review of AC. The game looks breathtaking. 
 no more needs to be said as this is largely overshadowed by the more important factors.
  
  -The sound and musical score does nicely, some decent voice acting, all well and good.
  
  -Game 
 mechanics are pretty decent as well, fighting is enjoyable, jumping and climbing is exhilarating, 
 and It doesn't get in the way much.
  
  Seems like the makings of a great game, we have all the necessary structure to have the formula 
 of a great game here... unfortunately, thats where it ends.
  
  CONS:
  
  -repetitiveness, repetitiveness ,repetitiveness ,repetitiveness ,repetitiveness 
  
  It's like 
 they made the first level, and decided that was good enough to repeat for the rest of the game 
 without -any- variation. 
  
  I found myself getting skeptical right off the bat. I had been told this was a living world... 
 why can't I Interact with anyone then? why can't I buy things, go on quests, learn more about this 
 world past it's aesthetic qualities?
  
  It was all so.. hollow.
  
  -Plot
  
  I'm sure the plot sounded great on paper. but In action It leaves MUCH to be desired. I should 
 never feel like I'm doing "work" in a game. I found myself thinking... 'ok all I have to do is 
 get past these 2 kills before I get to the next part' Instead of looking forward to actually doing 
 them. It's all so repetitive I didn't even care. 
  
  here is the entire game layout right here for you.
  
  1. speak to the master
  2. pointlessly 
 run through the starting village to the "kingdom"
  3. fast track to city
  4. find a high spot
  5. complete 2-3 mini quests (always the same)
  6. run to target
  7. kill 
 target in plain sight
  8. hide.
  
  9. repeat 9 times.
  
  thats the game right there. It even sounds better when I lay it out like that, It really is IDENTICAL 
 each time.
  
  heres my biggest problem with games like this though... WHY SUCH A HIGH RATING. are people so damn 
 gullible? they only downsides gamespot lists is a confusing ending, and minor glitches... WHAT 
 ABOUT THE HORRIBLE LACK OF GAMEPLAY VARIATION?
  
  has everyone just gotten stupid? does no one remember what the games were like before graphics 
 seemed to be all that was necessary?
  
  all I know, is that If Fallout 3 turns out like this... I might just cry.
  
  game developers 
 have evidently forgotten that it takes ALL 3 of the points I listed to make a great game. not just 
 doing well on one and saying $@#% It to the others.
  
  what a beautiful waste of time this game was. worth renting once. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotpocket_101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  It may not be the best, but it certainly is close. The graphics are amazing, every now and then 
 you'll see a glitch, but it doesn't ruin the game. You start out in a weird tutorial with everyone 
 being faceless. You later find out that you (Desmond) have a genetic memory and can control your 
 ancestor (Altair) . A company has kidnapped you and force you to use the Animus, a strange machine 
 that helps you control Altair. You spend most of the game in one of the four cities (Masyaf, Jerusalem 
 Damascus, and Acre) . You assassinate corrupt politicians and military leaders. No matter who you 
 are, you will love this game. With it's great graphics, fun gameplay, and many ways to kill people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Reaper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed, could have been a huge success. But you get the feeling it could've been many 
 times better.
  
  Assassins creed has a cool climbing feature. Completely realistic motions and actions. 
  The 
 voice acting is amazing, but the dialogue needs work. Some bits take the fun away by being too 
 runrealistic. 
  
  At the beginning 5 minutes of the game. Desmond is kidnapped, but is a little too comfortable for 
 the fact hes been taken into a facility to do some work. The voice acting for Altair is pretty 
 bad, and the dialogue for him is even worse.
  
  The gameplay itself is repetative, fun for a few moments. But it could've used more. 
  
  Same 
 thing for basically every target. Investigate, by eavesdropping on people who happen to talk about 
 private things in public and in a crowded area. And always happens to be by a bench. 
  
  Interregating a speaker, punch him a few times in a secluded area until he surrenders information. 
 
  
  Pickpocketing people who just happen to carry a map, and bother to write down their plans on a 
 piece of paper. 
  
  There should have been more than one way to do things. Why not hang a guy off a roof until he surrenders. 
 
  Why not eavesdrop from the rooftops? 
  
  
  When watching the intro movie, you can see Altair had a crossbow, shoot out the gaurds, stab another. 
 And strike down the target. 
  You can tell that Ubisoft wanted a game like that, but just like Halo 2 when revealed. Fans cry 
 out for the game. Therefore they rushed it, and forgot about what they set out to do.
  
  The ending, the ending was like a Halo 2 ending leaving you going "Are you serious..." 
  
  
 *Spoilers* ---
  After looking at the emails that lucy has. You can see that Lucy had sent mails out for help to 
 get desmond out and stop the modern day Templars from getting the artifact. 
  
  Which obviously continued to modern day society, of course so the assassins also carried out to 
 modern day to stop them from getting the artifact as well
  *no more spoilers* ---
  
  Though the ending had the "Lets make it epic" and fail. Look to it. 
  
  
  Fighting your way 
 through gaurds, and hiding gets totally repetative. The gaurds aren't that hard to kill by the 
 time you learn counters, and other things. Assassinations are still fun, but often aren't that 
 hard.
  
  Of course there is one side mission, rescuing townspeople. Saving them from being harrassed by 
 gaurds. They also always seemed to have been stealing. Theft, and no matter how long you leave 
 them there. No matter how many times a guard says they will kill them. You can come back and slaughter 
 them in 1 minute, no problem. 
  
  Blending in with monks that stay still until a stranger mingles with them can be pretty useless 
 when you can just climb a rooftop. 
  
  The game couldve had more ways to hide, more variety of game type. But as you can see, the game 
 was rushed. And the story was okay.
  
  I say this game is still worth buying. But don't expect too much from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisfairc16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you start playing it, you will wonder where this game has been all your life .
  
  The Shear amount of detail that has gone into this game is notable right off the bat, lighting 
 just right, every inch of every city feels natural the architecture doesn't feel like it was put 
 there for you to jump and climb all over but of course you can. Why you do so you will hear preaching, 
 cries for help and more from your rooftop sanctuary. 
  
  When your forced into combat it can be quite enfrilling exciting and breathtaking all in one quick 
 swoop. you have your attack button witch you can combo but to be honest its really a bit of a mash 
 but you can also grab and throw & counter attack etc . the fights just seem so fluid and smooth 
 just like a sword fight from a pirates movie.
  
  Of course later on in the game you cant be expected to fight everyone and will have to engage in 
 abit of free running be that up top or on the ground jumping roof to roof or through market stalls 
 either way can get the ole heart muscle thumping.
  
  It seems strange to say but one of the weakest parts of the game is the actual assassinations the 
 stalking and getting too are often the most exciting parts of the game that being said they can 
 be performed a multitude of ways so dont always rush right in.
  
  To accompany all this, A beautiful orchestral score. Many of the game's most impressive moments 
 are accompanied by Beautifully composed subtle and lovely Themes witch add to the suspense and 
 thrill of the chase.
  
  Either way im not going into to much detail but basically if you own a 360 and ps3 buy this game 
 its a definite buy and one of the only 360 games out this year worthy of being on your shelf. And 
 also one of the only ps3 games this year.
  
  Oh as for differences the controls pretty much match layout wize the thumb stick feels abit more 
 awkward on the ps3 witch possibly might become a problem as you use it for the whole game. and 
 there is a noticable loss of frames on the ps3 version compared to the xbox version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobiscumsemel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  First let us get the obvious out of the way. Though not many may like to think so, reviews are 
 nearly comprised 100% of bias, made up by a very selective perception of various perceptions made 
 along the way until the experience of the game is over. Therefore, I would wish to explain my bias 
 towards this game in hopes that people will understand it and possibly either share it or be moved 
 by it. 
  
  Now that we have the obvious out of the way, I would like to say that the score 9.5 that I gave 
 Assassin's Creed is completely arbitrary, as are all numerical ratings. I personally feel that 
 this is one of the games that I have been looking for since my first days on the NES many, many, 
 many years ago. To further emphasize the arbitrary numerical rating system, I would like to say 
 that, though I would give some games that I have played in the past a perfect 10 based upon several 
 familiar factors, the 9.5 Assassin's Creed gives a much more long-lasting impression upon me and 
 is just plain more fun. However, Assassin's Creed deserves a 9.5 because, unlike the 10 games, 
 it is not perfect by any means, despite its enjoyability.
  
  STORY
  
  We seem to have the idea that everything has already been done before. This is possibly the reason 
 why, that in the vast sea of different media that we are battered with and pleaded to interact 
 with (though most offer no interaction at all) every day, we are plagued with the sequel or the 
 remake. Though this happens moreso in the movie world, it is becoming ever the more prominent in 
 mainstream video gaming.
  
  Therefore let us look at what the story in Assassin's Creed has done for us. Though the basic concept 
 of the assassin and other themes in the story was given to Assassin's Creed Creative Director Patrice 
 Desilets and his team through the fictional work, Alamut, and several other primary and secondary 
 sources of the period, and recent studies, the story itself can be considered wholly original. 
 I will not elaborate on the story itself because of spoilers, and though the truth of the matter, 
 for me and I'm sure others, became very apparent early on, I believe that the intention was to 
 stress Altair's journey to the resolution of his story, rather than its destination. As for Desmond's 
 story, it has clearly just begun.
  
  In a world where video games are given very little narrative credit due to the narrative itself 
 providing only a reason to further the slaughter or to explain the transition in sceneries, this 
 originality comes as a breath of fresh air, and adds a layer of depth to the game, providing an 
 extra motive to continue the experience: not only to enjoy, but to discover.
  
  Unfortunately, hopefully without saying too much, the open-ended "conclusion" to the broader story 
 seems to have left many unsatisfied. I too, at first, was a little frustrated and unsatisfied, 
 though, after thinking back over the previous conversations that I had had with a certain someone, 
 the events that unfolded leading up to the culmination were understandable. I realized that what 
 was to be the game's resolution did not come at the very end -- think "fingers." But regardless, 
 I do think that, however effective, the cliff-hanger is a very old and very cheap narrative trick, 
 and, needless to say, I have already succumbed to it and mentally reserved by copy of Assassin's 
 Creed 2. I have a feeling that we won't just be given a new gun.
  
  GAMEPLAY AND DESIGN 
  This section is frankly more of a rebuttal to many people's complaints of gameplay reptition and 
 the AI "problem." First off, I'd like to tell everyone that does not already know, that nearly 
 every single game that has ever been made is based off of repitition of the same tasks. All that 
 changes is the scenery. To trick people into thinking games are less repetitive is the implementation 
 of pacing. Since in Assassin's Creed, the player determines the pacing of the game for his or herself, 
 the amount of repitition, and thus the level of enjoyment or frustration is heavily up to the player. 
 This is especially true for those who rush through the game, doing the bare minimum, because the 
 less you do, the less you are rewarded with variety. If you completely explore the map, different 
 options will become available to you and you may complete them at your leisure. 
  
  The different investigation aspects that make up much of the gameplay are, however, mainly information 
 based, resulting in further complaints. Depending upon the mission, this ranges from the basic 
 location of the target to more specific information such as access points and locations of guards. 
 All I have to say to this is: would you rather be asked to complete random contextual button presses 
 while receiving information? Please. You wanted to be an assassin. You are subtle. You are crafty. 
 Having a fullout showdown to get information will only attract unwanted attention. 
  
  Furthermore, I do not understand some people's compaint that all of the extra information that 
 you are offered is useless. This goes back to what I said earlier in explaining the use of repetition: 
 the level of enjoyment or frustration is heavily up to the player. Personally, I spent a moment 
 after gathering ALL of the information I could to plan my attack. I used the extra information 
 to my advantage. If you choose the extremes -- either blending the whole time until you get to 
 the target, or go in "guns" blazing -- you're going to get very polarized results, and will ultimately 
 find what you get repetitive. After reviewing what I had learned, I took peoples advice on how 
 to enter and proceed. In addition to this, I played through the assassinations several times, using 
 several different strategies. The most satisfying was definitely when I paid attention to the advice 
 of those I had gathered information from. My only complaint is that the guard maps can be hard 
 to follow, rendering them relatively useless. 
  
  I have included gameplay and design in one section because, for better or for worse, they dictate 
 one another. I will not elaborate a lot on this, because a lot of the fun is in discovering it 
 for yourself. Each time you rank up, the more of your euqipment become available to you, and the 
 more equipment you have, the more of the subtlties you can be exposed to. Discovering different 
 ways to go about things is very satisfying. For example, instead of using your swords during combat, 
 trying countering with your dagger. In my opinion, this is the weapon for the most brutal of kills. 
 Highlighting this cohesion of gameplay and design is the free running system. All I have to say 
 about this simply, just do it, and you'll know what I mean. It is the ultimate combination of art 
 direction meeting gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikingwwu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Near as I can tell Kevin Van Ord was being coerced by a wire-wielding Agent 47 on the day he wrote 
 the review for Ubisoft's latest release "Assassin's Creed." Either that or a representative from 
 Ubisoft gave everyone at the GameSpot headquarters a holiday "bonus" and poor Mr. Van Ord won the 
 award for "Most Likely to Be Successful At Writing A Review for a Game Which Is Actually Horrible 
 and Making it Seem Incredible." Of course, let's play fair for a moment. GameSpot is not the only 
 gaming publication to give Assassin's Creed a 9 or higher. Game Informer gave it a staggering 9.5! 
 A 9.5? A 9.5? A 9.5? This score seems a bit overzealous considering that game-play in Assassin's 
 Creed is about as repetitive as the few sentences I wrote before this one. GameSpot's 9.0 rating 
 of Assassin's Creed is .6 points below that of "Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" (9.6) a game which 
 is widely respected by gamers and nearly took last year's Game of the Year honors. I want you to 
 keep this in mind as I run through some of the greater annoyances of Assassin's Creed. 
  
  To begin, you (the reader) must understand that like every other video game collector and fan, 
 I looked forward to Assasin's Creed with all the earnest of a child staring at a Christmas tree 
 littered with presents on the Eve before Christmas day. I wanted to love this game. I should have 
 loved this game. Let's run through the check list. I am history major  check. One of my main areas 
 of study is the Knights Templar  check. I love a good mystery  check. I love most of Ubisoft's 
 games  check. And who doesn't want to be a rouge assassin? Check. I was made to love this game 
 and it was supposed to have been made to love me. Unfortunately, 20 hours later I find myself hoping 
 reviewers aren't yanking my chain with Uncharted: Drake's Fortune or Mass Effect. (Especially since 
 I have all ready purchased both.) 
  
  Moving on - almost everyone that has something positive to say about Assassin's Creed, including 
 Mr. Van Ord, are smitten with the environmental design and control. Basically, graphics. In fact, 
 if you hop, skip, and jump on over to the Official Review by clicking HERE, (I'll have you note 
 that controlling Altaiir in Assassin's Creed is about as simple) you can see that the games major 
 achievements are in graphic design. Now as far as I know, and feel free to correct me if I am wrong, 
 but many people feel that graphics are the "icing" on the video game cake and not the cake itself. 
 This is the problem with Assassin's Creed. Sure, it's beautiful  gorgeous in fact. But, there 
 is little to no game-play involved. Within 30 minutes of playing the game you will have experienced 
 most of what the game has to offer. It's like playing the same side mission in Oblivion over, and 
 over, and over, and over, and over. well, you get the point. 
  
  As for controlling Altair, it's simple. Too simple in fact. You can't mess up. Literally. It's 
 almost impossible to walk off of a building. I found myself getting highly annoyed with the fact 
 that I couldn't seem to persuade Altair to fall off the roof top while being chased by a group 
 of city guards. To explain, stealth is ideal in this game. The point is to lose your pursuer's 
 line of sight so that you can dump yourself into a nearby hay stack or mini shack until the pursuing 
 party's interest wanes. Unfortunately, getting off the roof can entail a significant number of 
 drop commands which, of course, slow down your character and make escape nearly impossible. Using 
 the jump command usually sends you flying across to another roof top instead of allowing you to 
 simply fall to the ground. So, most of the time, when I face a pursuit I'll stand my ground and 
 attack because it's far too exhausting to try and escape. I found myself hating the requirement 
 to visit the Assassin's Bureau in each city because of the drop down command. 
  
  As I said before, this game is annoyingly repetitive. Every city and every mission is the same. 
 You scale the towers in the part of the city you have been assigned to investigate, you save the 
 citizens there, you perform an interrogation or pickpocket a couple of unsuspecting citizens, and 
 you assassinate your target. I believe this explanation actually makes the game sound a great bit 
 more fun than the game actually is. To put it in other words, when I began my third assassination 
 quest and I got into the city and saw that I would be performing the same menial tasks as before 
 I thought, "You've got to be kidding. There's got to be more to this game!" I wish there was. 
 
  
  The story can be interesting at moments, but it's nowhere near its potential. When you perform 
 an assassination you are granted a moment with that individual as they lie dying in your arms. 
 They show no regret for their actions and so your character becomes suspicious of the reasons he 
 has been contracted to kill them. The story would probably be more interesting if the sound was 
 better during these scenes. Unfortunately, the whizzing and humming of the animus (the machine 
 that has allowed your character to relive his ancestral memory of Altair) causes a great deal of 
 dropped dialogue and hard to hear moments  even when my television is cranked up. Truth be told, 
 this story is so poor I find myself wondering what Ubisoft was thinking when they decided to make 
 this game. "I know!" said a developer, "We'll make a game about nothing!" And nothing is what this 
 game is.
  
  I suppose what is truly frustrating is that this game could have been a Prince of Persia or a Hitman 
 copy cat. At least the missions and puzzles within those games are varied enough to drive the game 
 forward. Sure, most games require the performing of repetitive action. Shoot. Kill. Pick up. Shoot. 
 Shoot. Kill. It's all relatively "the same." But, I have never actually been so aware of the repetitiveness 
 of action as I was while playing Assassin's Creed. There is no deviation within the game other 
 than within the story itself. And while "fetching" missions in Oblivion and other titles are often 
 of the same premise, you always feel as though your character actually achieved an important task 
 and that the virtual non-existent item that you retrieved actually does exist. For example, in 
 Oblivion I might be set with the task of retrieving a statue. I fast travel to the city the statue 
 is at, pull off a couple of maneuvers and take the statue to my contractor. One task later I have 
 been commanded to go retrieve a relic in a dungeon. The difference between the repetitiveness of 
 Oblivion was that all tasks took you somewhere new and required a different type of behavior and 
 performance. Essentially, you were required to solve a miniature puzzle whether it be in performing 
 stealth or weaponry or any other number or mixture of behaviors. The tasks in Assassin's Creed 
 are the same throughout. It's like performing alchemy for an entire game and nothing changes but 
 the herbs you use while making the potion.
  
  Yet, for all its repetitiveness, Assassin's Creed can be a bit of fun to play. Oddly, this game 
 seems more like the "racing" game of third person platformers. You'll enjoy playing it for 30 minutes 
 to an hour, and then you're probably going to want to move on to something else. It can be addictive 
 because the maneuver's Altair can perform are so much fun to watch on screen you'll want to see 
 them over and over again. It's a shame that this game had so much beauty and control and failed 
 to cut the content cake.
  
  My major criticism is that games like Two Worlds (which has a great deal more story than Assassin's 
 Creed) are criticized and hounded for subpar graphics and control, while games that offer no depth 
 of story like Assassin's Creed are found to be exceptional for existing on nothing other than graphics. 
 So, basically, all anyone needs to develop a solid game is a good graphics team. Everything else 
 is just icing.
  
  My other argument is that a game like this doesn't deserve the rare 9.0 and above status. Is this 
 game comparable in any way to Oblivion, COD4, or (and this will kill you if you have read any of 
 my criticisms of Halo) Halo 3? I don't think so. Not even close! I'd give this game a 6.7 and nothing 
 higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thulsola
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This is the game I have always wanted. This is what the Spider Man games promised but could 
 never deliver: A fully interactive world, with no barriers to how I want to play my game.
  
  Assassin's Creed delivers a rich gaming experience that melds a great story, on par with Bioshock, 
 with intuitive game play and action. The world is rich, both in history and in graphical detail. 
 The characters are well written, and the missions and story line engage you like a good novel.
 
  
  Over all, there is very little I would change about this game. I highly recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stifler44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing "wrong" with Assassin's Creed at all. Unfortunately though the gameplay gets to 
 the point where you are a robot. You will spend the majority of your time going into a town, getting 
 into a synchronization3 spot, which includes climbing up a building and then saving a citizen in 
 the line of site of that tower and then repeat. With the population and constant buzzing of the 
 city it almost seems as though the designers got to the end of creating a brilliant world to say 
 "oh wow! We forgot to through in things for the player to do in the city, come up with three or 
 four things that they can repeat over and over again so we can launch!"
  
  The control and the character you are, under the story, could have generated a perfect experience 
 if you could have had more dynamic missions that would include detailed stats so you could see 
 what you have done. How many guards fell to you.... how many times were they alerted...... what grade 
 are you as an assassin. 
  
  So ultimately it is fun being a spider monkey all over town and assassinating random guards (also 
 eerily satisfying when you shank a HIGHLY irritating drunk or beggar that push at you!) . You WILL 
 have fun and you WILL love the game, but you will be left wishing there was more to do and more 
 to kill! What it all comes down to is that we escape our normal stressful life by living vicariously 
 through our games...... we GET to be an assassin for a couple hours of our day, and while we do 
 it we want to have options and grades and more fun involved!
  
  One more thing..... if you have a large HD TV the "leap of faith" from the towers NEVER gets old. 
 It feels like going down the hill on a rollercoaster! 
  
  This is the first game that I actually felt nervous because of my fear of heights. You climb one 
 tower that's so high and the landscape is so beautiful that you are intimidated and apprehensive 
 with every push of a button and it's a HUGE relief when you leap to safety and you are on solid 
 ground again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Assassin Creed.... It's hard for me to say over-hyped or just fun. Yes in some parts I can see it 
 being over-hyped but that seems to be all the rage with new games now-a-days anyway. So I appreciate 
 the fun AC gave me for 15 hours or so.
  
  
  Story: I really dont want to explain the beginning so as to not ruin any twists or whatever but 
 it struck me at first as, "This might be just stupid." But interestingly enough it managed to mold 
 together the twistyness of it and maintain a good storyline. 1191 A. D; You are Altair (Accent marks 
 I guess some where  . ) and you are and assassin (Oh snap) and part of a guild of assassins. You're 
 rank in the beginning is pretty high up but after a slip up in recovering an ancient artifact you 
 are demoted to a novice and must work your way up by taking out 9 main hits. It gets lengthy but 
 like I stated the story will make itself evident when you reach cinematic parts. All-in-All: Definetly 
 one to remember. Good in most respects.
  
  Graphics: Gorgeous. The mountains stretch far and are ignored only by the detail of Altair and 
 the cities you explore. Enemies are essentially guards and they have their own style per city, 
 3 cities total along with an open kingdom area to get from point A to point B. The guards do become 
 recycled but I just cared about killing them rather than looking. The mass amounts of civilians 
 is impressive but they aren't all that bright. They no when to run in a fight and just how to get 
 in you're way at the wrong times, making you really want to stick to the rooftops, not a bad thing 
 though mind you. All-in-all: Gorgeous. Suffice it to say your adversaries are recycled but none-the-less 
 it's all polished sharply.
  
  
  Gameplay: I didn't do the stealth thing but more so the "GTFO citizens! I must kill!" Charging 
 past guards and drunken people alike to only meet up with my target with a blade hidden on my arm 
 to be shoved in his neck. The battle system shines pretty fluidly if you can control it right, 
 providing in the beginning a semi-challenging experience that isn't too much of a push-over. But 
 later when more weapons and skills are thrown at you, enemies go down noticeably faster. Seems 
 logical though right? Better sword easier kill? True and that is fine with me. The weapons are 
 definetly limited but can be a thrill when used right; you're short blade, long blade and throwing 
 knives all play a fun part in however you wish to take on your opponents. There's a counter system 
 that is just hilariously brutal and some other dodging and guard breaking moves that are placed 
 in for an easy fight.
  All-in-all: Once learned, the fighting system and Free-running can be a blast at any givin point. 
 Also counter with you hand blade, hilarious.
  
  
  Sound: Swords clash, arrows whiz (Not the best) but still good, and guards yell the same 4 or 5 
 lines over and over again. Now the Cinematic voice acting stands out and works it part in setting 
 the mood. Altair never bothered me at all contrary to what other people say. And the music is fine 
 but I like my own custom songs to go with fighting better. All-in-all: It's there and it works.
 
  
  
  Violence: The blood sprays when sliced, countered, or backhanded. Ragdoll is there and funny on 
 the rooftops when you chuck someone off a high point to be met with the screams of civilians. Not 
 to mention counter moves are fun when it zooms in and the area around you blurs to show the intensity 
 of the fighting that takes place every time. All-In-all: Only the counters really had me going, 
 everything else was alright.
  
  
  ALL-IN-ALL: It's fun, repetitive but fun. I failed to mention it early but my wishy-wash feelings 
 on this game are because of the repeated ways of gathering information and how to even find the 
 information to start with. Collecting flags is a plain bore sometimes, I'm pretty easy to be entertained 
 so I do disregard abit of the repeatness of it all and get caught up in starting fights to get 
 me through the game along with the good story. So give this swell Ol' game a rent and appreciate 
 past its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orfeo88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Assassin Creed is a beautiful game, some of the best lighting effects i've seen on Xbox, the shadows 
 are great, seem almost perfect. Visually this game is in the tops considering the scale of it and 
 definitely sets a standard for the games out there. The cities are unspeakably HUGE!!! Where you 
 can easily get lost ( thankfully you have a map) , architecture just looks brilliant makes you want 
 to climb everything... and you CAN! ^_~ the gameplay is incredible and just fun!!!
  
  This game does however contain minor glitches, but it is easily forgivable. It does feel repetitive 
 as other reviewers mentioned, but it isn't necessarily a negative thing since the game is just 
 plain fun to play and you do tend to enjoy doing some things over and over again thanks to the 
 great engine of the game and its awesome character controls that just feel very smooth. You get 
 used to them quickly, running on top of buildings, climbing any structure; the character just manages 
 to reach out for the furthers edge and eventually make it. Ubisof balanced it very well. I personally 
 was amazed by the horse this is a startling feature to the game, probably the best horses in a 
 game i've ever seen. (Oblivion doesn't come close here) 
  
  You are constantly amazed with this game; it's the little things that do stand out. ( as was said 
 n Gamespot review) . The Combat system is just amazing and plain fun. Some of the best sword fighting 
 techniques implemented in this game. The combat just looks and feels really cool and very brutal 
 on many occasion makes you want to kill over and over again. Very smooth and easy to use! You character 
 constantly improving with moves and weapons upgrades so you always want to get out there and kill 
 anyone who wants a piece. What I like is that you don't get any penalties for killing guards, so 
 its constant fun and you can just practice moves on them!
  
  The cities feel alive, with hundreds of NPCS going around on their daily tasks! Missions seem repetitive 
 but this is fine as this is done so you can get accustomed to the controls and the character so 
 you feel more natural using him for later missions. The storyline is very interesting that keeps 
 you going, an interesting approach of the present and the past which is to do with our DNA that 
 stores memories from our ancestors. Interesting plot and somewhat believable. Voice acting is also 
 very good, that sets the mood for the environment and generally the overall atmosphere of the game. 
 
  
  Assassin Creed is Shockingly awesome! This is one of the best games I have played on XBOX360 and 
 definitely a MUST HAVE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamieagreen
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I loved this game, fantastic atmosphere, game play and amazing visuals. Personally I think the 
 sound (slated by some other reviews) is great, and very clever - sounds slowly drop out the higher 
 you go to be replaced by wind and calm. I hope if updates do come out it is for some of the None 
 Player character conversations - would be good to get more of a variety (especially the bloody 
 beggar woman!)
  
  Mixed concept of modern and past works quite well, although can get a bit confusing.
  
  One 
 of my favorite games I have ever played. I hope that they will bring out more missions for it as 
 well.
  
  
  
  Definite buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CS2J
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game which had outstanding graphics, but it is also very easy once you have 
 the counter attack move until you get quite far on in the game.
  
  But the final mission of each location is very exciting and challenging if you want to do it without 
 starting a big fight.
  
  I do very much like this game but the only reason I haven't completed it yet is because I want 
 to take my time in it.
  
  If you are some one who enjoys completing their games in as short as possible then this is a game 
 for you as it has no online play so just rent it out and it wont take long to get everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdex8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that I have played in a long time. Trying to compare it to other 
 top rating games is hard though. This game is going in a new direction in gaming and to compare 
 to Halo 3 or any other good games is not possible. The way that Assassin's Creed ended though looks 
 like there might be a sequel, which is very good. Maybe the sequel will be a modern day Assassin's 
 Creed game, I don't know. I also think that even though this game is extremely good all around 
 that people will not stay interested in the game as long as Halo 3 or Call Of Duty 4 because there 
 is no online play. I was trying to think of a way to put this game online and I couldn't really 
 think of one. Really good game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerBear55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  I had withdrawal after I finished the Prince of Persia trilogy... I went and bought a PS2 so I could 
 play the God of War series. Withdrawal again. I played other games, sure... but waited for Assassin's 
 Creed forever. I bought a Xbox 360 and the game (and Halo 3) at the same time. I called in sick 
 to work for 2 days!
  
  This game is awesome. First of all it's absolutely beautiful on my High Def TV, I can't even explain 
 how good it looks; you know if you have a HDTV. The game is massive. The cities and Kingdom are 
 detailed and fantastic. There's just so much detail and so much to look at and experience. The 
 movements and controls are smooth and natural; no clunky looking anything in this game.
  
  There are side missions, or you can just cut to the chase and do what's necessary... people say 
 they "beat the game".... this is one game you want to experience, not beat. It's that good. I can't 
 wait for the sequels, hopefully there will be more than one.
  
  The ONLY nit I have is that you can't just start a second game (without saving over your first 
 game) . This game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlandeiro
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  The fight with Robert De Sable is a pain. We should be able to jump on the rocks to keep away from 
 the assailants. Also, there is a lot of the "you can't go here at this time" nonsense that keeps 
 you from fleeing the fight when your health is low to recoup. The last two fights are monstrous 
 in comparison to the rest of the fights that you are accustomed to in the game, thus, making these 
 fights unfairly challenging. Nevertheless, the game is a lot of fun. I would like to get a better 
 control of my character. Maybe doing so would get me to improve the fighting in these last two 
 matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finegas
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  
  Great graphics, sound and possibly story. But its repetitivness and lack of "reallity" wich Ubisoft 
 gloated about will make this game fun on the first couple of missions before it will bore you to 
 death.
  
  The levels and design of the game is beutifull and crisp. The sound effects, voice acting and playability 
 are superb. 
  But sadly the story is lacking substance, and honestly, its just bizzare. But with all the goodness 
 in this game, the wierd storyline is easy to forgive.
  
  What makes this game fun (for a while) is also its downfall.
  
  The huge levels will have 
 you running around the levels for a couple of hours, investigating and saving civilians, which 
 makes it pretty cool at the begging. But after the first few levels, youll realize that every 
 single level is exactly (objective wise) the same as the others.
  The lack of AI in the battles is made for you to feel as the ultimate swordsman and assassin, but 
 "reallitywise" its just clumsy when you are fighting more than 20 guards and none of them attack 
 you, and when they do its like they take turns, so its really easy to dispach a huge ammount 
 of enemies. 
  The information youll learn to eliminate your mark will not make any difference in the game, youll 
 just rush into the palace or courtyard where your mark is and kill him silently and run back to 
 the assassins bureau. 
  
  Its Ubisofts first try with this game, so its ups and downs can be fixed. 
  
  But honestly 
 if you like a good and difficult assassins game, Id go with the classic and realistic HITMAN 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senorpablo24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Prior to Novemeber 20th Assassins creed was the 2nd best game to be relased for the Xbox 360 this 
 year (Halo being the first becuase of the amazing online play) . Assassins is a game that will leave 
 you in awe the graphics are beautiful. The cities really come to life and they are so big that 
 there is so much fun to be had just running around. The interactions of people is amazing, in their 
 movement, and the sound of speech from the city. The story is very compelling as well, the story 
 is the drive for me to continously play becuase you're always dying ot find out why. Killing people 
 is the best part of the game becuase there are so many ways. On a roof top and target sees you 
 but your too far away to have a sword fight? Just throw your knives and kill him. Trying to sneak 
 around and clear out a path to your target? Get behidn a guard and assassinate him if you're good 
 enough noone will even nkow it was you. What if you're being chases and need some where to hide? 
 Find a haystack and your all set. The game does such a good job of putting these little elements 
 together to make the overall expierence one of the best i've had to date.
  
  I find almost no problems at all with assassinans creed besides one day i had some glitches but 
 that mostly from keeping the game on for 10 +hours. Also at the beginning fighting can seem a little 
 repetitive, but once your learn your counter mvoes and what not it gets to be wicked fun. Of course 
 I do wish there was the online ability but its a stealth assassination game so I understnad. Though 
 it would be fun to find a friend and jump up behind him and stab him in hte back (only in gameplay 
 though not real life) .
  
  Assassisans creed is a must have game, do you really want to be that one guy who didn't play it. 
 I'm pretty sure no one else wants to be that guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humwawa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed comes with an awesome pedigree, the same developers who made the Prince of Persia 
 series, and with a well-oiled hype machine grinding away in the background. Most pro reviews have 
 been highly positive but there have been a few exceptions. I didn't want to believe them because 
 I enjoyed PoP a lot and what I had seen of this game looked amazing. So I chose to believe GameSpot 
 and other reviews which said what I wanted to hear.
  
  However, having played the game myself, I have to say the negative reviews made some valid points. 
 The game looks absolutely phenomenal - the graphics and character animations are absolutely cutting 
 edge. The cityscapes you see spreading out beneath you when you climb tall towers are incredibly 
 detailed and vibrant looking. The attention to detail in buildings is fantastic - the cities appear 
 as real, breathing, lived in places. The developers really have raised the bar on this score. If 
 graphics alone made a game then AC would get a perfect 10.
  
  Where AC really falls short of its potential though is the gameplay. At first this seems perfectly 
 fine, it has hints of PoP in the climbing but given a more realistic, less Olympic acrobat, tone. 
 But once you start getting stuck into the plot of the story you soon realise that you are expected 
 to do the same things over and over again. Pick a pocket, listen to a conversation, beat someone 
 up, save a civilian from being harassed by guards. While that's not necessarily a problem what 
 makes it so is that none of those tasks really require any skill on the part of the player and 
 the character models and NPC dialogue are identical. Every single time. Plowing through them to 
 get to the assassination each ones leads to gets to be a drag which the gorgeous visuals can't 
 completely compensate for. You can go where you want in the cities, and perform the mini-games 
 in what order you please but it would be wrong to call this a sandbox title really since the repetetiveness 
 of the gameplay makes it feel like you, the player, are being herded along a linear path.
  
  This is a shame as a game is ultimately about the pleasure of playing it not just looking at 
 it. The developers would have spent their time better making the gameplay more varied even if this 
 meant the graphics suffered slightly. Assassins Creed is so in love with its own story that the 
 developers seem to think that performing tedious and repetitious tasks (one oft-repeated task is 
 to sit down and listen to NPC's yakking - hmm, sitting on a bench, that's an exciting thing to 
 do in a game!) which allow the story to progress is a valid substitute for exciting gameply. It 
 isn't. It's not as if the story is that amazing anyway and the dialogue which progesses it, while 
 well delivered, is crude and obvious. "I say Salim, isn't Al-Wazir a rotter, wouldn't it be nice 
 if someone offed him? Shame we are too cowardly to do it ourselves." "Yes, my friend, he is simply 
 ghastly. Apparently he is going to be spending all day standing about in the Souk today without 
 his guards. Oh, well, lets get some lunch."
  
  Furthermore you travel from city to city via an area of countryside called "The Kingdom" which 
 serves absolutely no purpose whatsoever other than to impede your progress to whichever city you 
 are supposed to go to next: Apparently riding a horse above a certain minimum speed in C12th Jerusalem 
 carried the death sentance since guards will violently attack you depending on your velocity. 
 
  
  I so wanted AC to be a really great game but you just can't avoid the fact that it is badly, badly 
 flawed despite its aesthetic strengths. Many people seems to have been brainwashed by the hype 
 surrounding this title or maybe they just don't want to admit to themselves that after all this 
 wait and expectation that Ubisoft have ripped them off. Or maybe they are hot for that producer 
 chick and are trying to be gallant. Whatever. AC is a badly missed opportunity and NOT a great 
 game. Or even are very good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0s3rx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  The concept of the game is rather simple - you're an Arabic assassin sent in to deal with 9 figures 
 in the Holy Land during the Crusades. Ubisoft, however, turns a relatively simply storyline into 
 an extravagent tapestry that weaves a captivating tale. The game's graphics are beautiful to say 
 the least, and the environments make you feel as if you're actually there in the ancient times. 
 The "Leap of Faith" absolutely stole my breath when I first executed it. It was an amazing experience 
 - almost like I was actually doing it. The fighting system is unique and has a rhythm that is hard 
 to get into and there will always be one enemy who will throw you off. The AI is clever and will 
 find ways to get after you if you climb a building or tower, going as far as throwing rocks at 
 Altair to get him off of the building. The crowd dynamics are wonderful and realistic, proving 
 a difficult obstacle to get over when you're fleeing from the site of an assassination. All of 
 these aspects are wonderful, but where Assassin's Creed truely shines is in the free running aspect 
 of the game. The entirely seamless cities, though some parts are cordoned off to you the first 
 time you visit, are completely explorable, from the highest tower, to the lowliest shack. Coming 
 into this game, I was extremely skeptical of the accessibility of play, taking into account how 
 difficult it must be to properly execute free running - not so. Ubi brilliantly designed the free 
 running aspect so that Altair flawlessly executes each animation as you direct him. Of course, 
 there are always some accidents in which you end up, as I did three times, leaping off of a cliff 
 or high building and ending up a crumpled heap upon the ground. There are very few glitches in 
 the game, and overall it's a very polished experience that leaves you hungry for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VlaDikStYle
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  What can I say guys, great game.... at first. Graphics are beatifull, Gameplay is fun for the first 
 few hours, Story is pretty bland. 
  The only reason everyone is giving this such a high review, is because everyone wishes it was a 
 revolutionary game, but its not. I tried to make myself believe the same thing at first, but after 
 hours of playing, i realized this was just another repetetive game, O yea, it gets repetetive. 
 After a while, you dont even want to do the missions, because the assassinations arent even fun 
 anymore, and the combat just gets really boring, the only thing to really look foreward to is what 
 kind of new equipment youll get.
  
  I guarantee you, if no one knew about this game till it was released, it wouldnt be such a big 
 deal.
  
  Dont get me wrong, its a fun game, but its just too repetetive to be fun for more than a couple 
 days tops! (depending on how much you play)
  
  Hype is what rated this game for most people, not quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmcookie797
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  It is a must play. This type of game encompasses what an action adventure game should. It allows 
 for an open enviroment with great sandbox gameplay that allows the player to hold the cards. The 
 interactive enviroment is revolutionary anything you see that can possibly be climbed can be climbed 
 and used. The many NPC's make for a realistic world and the combat adds a more defensive strategy 
 to games. The plot is also captivating and keeps you guessing. I describe it as an interactive 
 movie that you control and decide what is going to happen next. It is also one of those games that 
 you cannot stop playing once you start you feel obligated to finishing the entire game. It is a 
 must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KundMat
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game, and I play almost every time I use the XBOX 360. But I only got it 
 two or three days ago, so my gamerscore for it it only about 60. One of my XBOX live friends is 
 allready at 640 out of 1000! Its a really good game, and if you don't have it, you are missing 
 out on some really, really nice fun. When your not in the mood for doing missions, it's also fun 
 just running around climbing, running on rooftops, and I also love doing Leaps of Faiths. Its really 
 cool to jump off a 500 foot tall building and land in a hay stack! The bad side of it are most 
 likely the controls, which can get very confusing some times. And it just pisses me off when a 
 begger runs in front of me. Did you know that if you throw, I can't remember the exact number though, 
 so many beggers to the ground you'll get an achevment? Another cool achevment is killing 50 enemys 
 with your hidden blades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billym99
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am enjoying Assassins Creed very much, however I do think Ubisoft missed 
 a great opportunity to make a truly superb game. Portions of the gameplay, the amazing visuals, 
 great voice acting and an incredible environment make AC a great game, but a there are a few things 
 that really bring the game down as you progress through it.
  
  First, let me state the positives... the graphics on this game are great, and the numerous animations 
 of the main character (Altair) look wonderful. The world your playing in, especially the four cities, 
 look outstanding and the game has a great draw distance to boot. It's obvious that a lot of attention 
 was put to making this game look ahead of the graphics curve. The general idea of the gameplay 
 is good. The assassinations are fun, and of course scaling buildings and leaping rooftops never 
 gets old.
  
  Unfortunately there is one particular negative that really hurt the whole experience for me and 
 that is the mission structure. To put it simply, the nine assassination missions are far to repetitive 
 and way too linear. The idea behind the mission structure is good... you are given a target to 
 kill and you must go around a particular district of the city that the target is in to gather intel 
 that will aid you in your assassination attempt. You can only attempt the kill when you've completed 
 so many of the intel gathering quests. Problem one is that each assassination uses identical quests 
 for this portion of the mission... the only thing varied is the portion of the mission where you 
 actually kill your target. Problem two is that these intel gathering quests are just too easy which 
 inherently makes them repetitive and boring. For example, you will always have a pickpocket mission 
 which involves you locking on your target, seeing a small cut scene, then picking there pocket 
 with the B button... THAT'S IT!, nothing more, nothing less. And every pickpocket mission is just 
 like this, the only thing that varies is the short cutscene. That is my big gripe of this game 
 in a nutshell, but unfortunately i think it is enough to really ruin the overall experience of 
 the game.
  
  Assassins Creed is still a great game... running around the cities killing guards and the actual 
 assassination portion of each mission is great. The visuals will put a smile on your face. Also, 
 I didn't mention it before, but I do feel that the story is very well done and really engages the 
 gamer. I found myself wanting to continue constantly because I always wanted to see where the story 
 was going. All in all, AC is still on my top ten of the year list, I just see it as a missed opportunity... 
 a game that, with a few specific changes, could easily have been GOTY worthy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This was a very good game. Very fun. The whole idea was very original. There's no other game life 
 this one. I wouldn't but it because once you beat it, there's nothing else to do, but you must 
 rent this game. I liked this game just as much as I like the splinter cell series. Very similar. 
 Cool time period. Im looking forward to another game like this. New time period? we'll see. A good 
 game
  This was a very good game. Very fun. The whole idea was very original. There's no other game life 
 this one. I wouldn't but it because once you beat it, there's nothing else to do, but you must 
 rent this game. I liked this game just as much as I like the splinter cell series. Very similar. 
 Cool time period. Im looking forward to another game like this. New time period? we'll see. A good 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: violent_world
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is one of the most anticipated games of this year. At the 2006 E3, the game was 
 touted as one of the biggest forthcoming Next-Gen experiences, not as a graphical powerhouse like 
 Gears of War even though the game certainly isn't lacking in that department. Instead, Assassin's 
 Creed had loftier goals and hoped to not only redefine gameplay, but do it while setting a new 
 standard for AI. There is a lot to like about Assassin's Creed. The level design is second to none. 
 There is imagination and a very epic feel crammed into every inch of every city. The graphics are 
 spectacular, and there are several times you'll say 'wow!!!' when exploring the countryside or 
 climbing towers to scope the city or hide from guards. The towns are thriving with life, and you 
 can interact with just about everyone. To put it mildly, Assassin's Creed has so much potential, 
 but the final product falls short of the big expectations most of us had for it.
  
  So what are the big problems with it? Put simply, it just isn't that fun to play after awhile, 
 even if the level design and graphics can be jaw dropping. One of the biggest problems with the 
 game is the missions themselves. The premise is this: you have to complete side missions like saving 
 civilians, pick pocketing, and beating information out of those in the know. Then, you put this 
 all together and have the optimal time to strike the main target. The problem is that you do almost 
 exactly the same tasks for each of the nine main missions. By the fifth mission, it gets very tedious, 
 especially when the rewards that you get for completing all the side quests aren't much more than 
 achievement points (yawn!) . 
  
  Another big problem with the game is that the fight system is close to broken. After each mission, 
 you are given some sort of a combat upgrade, which is either in the form of a new weapon or ability. 
 While it would make sense for this to improve your skill in battle, that simply isn't the case. 
 There is almost absolutely no finesse to the fighting system at all even though you can tell that 
 the producers tried (and failed) to add all sorts of nuance. You could simply sit there and tap 
 the X button while holding down the right trigger to spam the counterattack combo, and use this 
 to beat everything that draws a blade on you. While you do unlock new combinations that could make 
 it a bit more fun and complicated, the game doesn't recognize a significant portion of your combinations, 
 so if you actually try to pull one off you just open yourself up to attack. We were promised a 
 rich and detailed combat system for this game, and Assassin's Creed gives us nothing of the sort. 
 
  
  The third major problem with the game is the dialogue. For the most part, the voice acting is acceptable, 
 perhaps save for the main character who sounds like he belongs in a bad 80's Kung Fu flick. Overall 
 though, there are very few lines of dialogue that are used by the NPCs, and the few lines that 
 do exist really start to grate on your ears as you hear the same thing over and over again from 
 one city to the next. Perhaps Ubisoft ran out of room on the DVD 9s (then what is the excuse for 
 the PS3 version?) , but having 10 or 20 stock lines that are repeated over and over again don't 
 really cut it and get extremely frustrating by the end of the game. 
  
  The fourth and final major problem with the game is the AI. Ubisoft spent a lot of time and money 
 on marketing the AI in this game, but the final product leaves something to desire. The crowd AI 
 is acceptable. The NPCs are generally responsive to what you are doing, and there are so many of 
 them that it seems reasonable to look past some flaws on their part. However, the guards are often 
 downright stupid, and this really makes it easy to forego the stealthy elements of the game. For 
 example, you can sit there chucking throwing knives at a guard who is staring right at you and 
 he won't sound the alarm. You can kill a guard right in the middle of public, and as long as you 
 blend into the crowd (i. e. push and hold the A button to move painfully slowly) , they won't bat 
 an eye. Now, compared to a lot of other games out right now, the AI in Assassin's Creed is right 
 on par. However, since the AI was touted as one of the most crucial components of the game, you 
 can't help but feel a little disappointed in the way that it unfolds. 
  
  So, is Assassin's Creed worth the purchase? Maybe. It depends on what you are willing to look past 
 because there are some very big problems with this game that really put a damper on what could 
 have been a great and immersive experience. In some ways, it is worth picking up this game just 
 to climb around the cities to check out the level of thought and creativity that went into making 
 this. Unfortunately, the actual amount of fun-to-dollar after you start playing the missions might 
 make you thing otherwise. Oh, and the ending is terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRealScaraB
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed. There are many different aspects of this game that will have you going "Wow... 
 That's amazing". From the absolutely gorgeous visuals, with the normal tiny glitch that's forgivable, 
 to the styled platforming and even the combat makes one excited. 
  
  The story of Altair is very easy to follow. Filled with the normal plot twists that you'd expect 
 from the makers of the first Prince of Persia, Sands of Time. Superb voice acting conveys the story 
 brilliantly although Altair seems to be failing sometimes with it, but that is only because you'd 
 expect such brilliance from all the characters, especially the main one. This however does not 
 detract you from listening to the story from start to finish, although the end of the game doesn't 
 necessarily 'finish'. Play the game to find out.
  
  In the game you're a character in the 'present' that has been captured as he is related to this 
 Altair. You find out that a machine has been created, called the Animus, that can allow people 
 to tap into the memories of a person's DNA. This allows us to see and play with the main character 
 Altair. 
  
  This little story gimmick can easily explain all the problems and the glitches that occur. For 
 example, when you make a mistake and get caught trying to interrogate a person, the Animus resets 
 the world and you find that character standing exactly where he was before, giving the same speech 
 as before as well.
  
  This brilliant game is not without problems however. There isn't a 'skip cinematic' button to be 
 seen anywhere, so if you so happen want to explore the world from a previous mission, you have 
 to listen too all the speeches again. However this doesn't stop one from retrying missions which 
 have quite a few ways of completing them. There is also much to fool around and do in the city 
 which is of a cinematic quality. From just climbing, to finding the little flags strewn about the 
 area, to randomly picking on the guards (which is always fun thanks to the brilliant combat system 
 that allows you to see the effects of your attacks in a brilliantly styled camera angle) , to even 
 the chases from when you're spotted doing a mischievous deed! The slow to fast pace changes of 
 the game are extremely exciting.
  
  But it's not always just fun and games. As you progress the game seems to learn with you. One comes 
 across some enemies that, while not as quick as you can, can counter and throw you just as easily 
 as you can them. A very interesting way of scaling up fights. Also in the beginning you're limited 
 to 4-5 people fighting you at once. Where as later you could be fighting up to about 15 people 
 all against you, who can easily be replaced by a surrounding man that is ready to fight when he 
 can.
  
  All this combines for an experience that cannot be forgotten. And although the story does take 
 a little bit of time to get into, it is still most certainly enjoyable.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshipley01eb
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a free running romp through the ancient cities of the Crusades with fantastic 
 graphics and interesting and innovative game play opportunities. With a story that's different 
 and well told (through great voice acting) , Assassin's is sure to be a great new franchise for 
 the XBox 360.
  
  Like many of you, I've been looking forward to this title for a LONG time. And now that I've had 
 a chance to get my hands on it I'd have to say that for the most part it's worth the wait. Graphically 
 this game is top notch on my high definition TV. The views from on high are frankly breathtaking. 
 There are only a few minor seam glitches you'll see on a few buildings here and there, but nothing 
 that stands out in a way that makes you frustrated or disappointed.
  
  If there's a small complaint, it's that there's not very much variety with the game play choices. 
 You'll largely be doing the same types of missions over and over and after a while the repetitiveness 
 becomes a bit glaring. It's compounded by a rather easy level of difficulty. In fact, it wasn't 
 until nearing the end of the game when things started getting a bit more challenging, which is 
 to say I would have to deal with more enemies at once. 
  
  But with a combat system that feels a bit too easy at time, it's not really that big of a deal 
 to be surrounded by six guys. They suffer from a classic movie villain problem: attacking one at 
 a time. And once you unlock counter attacking, this doesn't really make you afraid to stick out 
 the bigger battles. In the end though, you over look a lot of the simplicity because you're just 
 having so much fun kicking ass.
  
  I often wonder if developers throw in things like the flag search system just to have a reason 
 to give XBox players achievement points. If you don't know this already, all of the main areas 
 of the game come with these flags you can collect. Each area has its own type of flag. Well, I 
 collected all of one area and all I got were achievement points. It would be nice if the developers 
 made this task have an impact to the game in some way (by unlocking a cool move or some kind of 
 weapon drop, like it GTA) . Anything, just make it worth my time, you know?
  
  I hear the ending is a bit cryptic and unsatisfying. I'll have to let you know, I'm not quite there 
 yet. But I've seen enough of Assassin's Creed to know that Ubisoft has a great title on its hands. 
 Leaping from building to building is just so much fun. And the cities are HUGE and full of life. 
 There are people everywhere. It's great to grab a guard on a rooftop and throw him off the edge 
 and hear the screams from below of the citizens panicking as a dead body falls into their midst.
 
  
  If you own the 360, this is definitely a must have title. Depending on how much time and effort 
 you want to put into finding all the flags the game could last you a good 20 hours or so to play. 
 If I didn't stop and look for flags myself, I think I might be done the game already. With about 
 15 hours of play logged, I'm almost to the last memory. Oh, yeah, if you don't know Assassin's 
 Creed is actually a science fiction game. You'll see 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tensor44
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is my favoret game right now. i don't like all the visual glitches like when his coat 
 go through the thing hes standing on. but all that is overshadowed but all the other stuff. the 
 loading screen mini game thing is the best thing ever! the story is short thought is you do the 
 bare basics and just do the minimum requirement to move on, so id recommend doing every thing to 
 make is last longer. cause if you haven't noticed after you beat the game it get boring. I've also 
 found a glitch cheat thing it may not work on other copies but if you start just punching the crap 
 out of people in the VARY start when every thing is all blurry you will start off with like half 
 a sync bar. there is a fare amount of specials in the game. there was also one more thing that 
 may be a little hard for some people the holding multiple buttons at the same time can be tricky 
 but if you play for half to a full hour you'll have it figured out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilpinecone
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  awesome one of the best games ive played since i got my 360 i would suggest all gamers no matter 
 what type your into to play this game. its addictive its smart and if you dont want to do missions 
 than mess around with the towns guards theres so many opitions than just run and kill your target 
 take down people in stealthy ways ive never played a game like it. it has a twisting story that 
 will leave you in aww at the end so get the game even if its not on your next to buy list just 
 trust me you will enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssorg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The game we had been awaiting for 4 years has finally came out for us to play, and when we first 
 put it in it was an amazing twist and great to start out. But after the first hour of playing it 
 I was getting tired of it. I waited this long to only be able to do 7 things? It just wasn't what 
 I was hoping it to be. I wished they would have brought some new ideas into getting information 
 for each person but they were all the same ways of getting information that would ultimately lead 
 to me finding the guy in plain sight and killing him there. Not so much of an assassin's creed 
 but a hit and run creed. But all in all I think the idea was amazing. The ending was horrible but 
 I knew that there would be a 2 and 3 so I figured it would be a crappy ending in the first. The 
 graphics were amazing and has some of the most great cut scenes. So in the end I would definitely 
 buy the game and play it if I were you, but do not expect the holy grail of games. Still is high 
 on my list and I just hope they take our feedback and implement some of it in the next two games 
 and hopefully I will not have to wait another 4 years to play it. But like I said I would highly 
 recommend this game to anyone who loves games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deleader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Since, the Prince of Persia saga, very good games also I recommend to play those, Ubi-soft has 
 developed mi favorite video-game series, and this game is one of them, I love this kind of games, 
 filled with action, blood, a lot of new opportunities... You've got to play it
  
  
  About the history, is very attractive, with a lot of unexpected events and variables during the 
 game play, also the new action-video scenes improve your understanding of the game, also the graphics 
 are amazing, very good use of the textures, shadows, logic, etc. No doubt this is one game that 
 every-one should play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksekulovski19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  the game was awesome it was challenging yet exciting. it incorperates real world phisics into fantasy 
 world scenarios. possibly the best game that ive ever played. the storyline was so unexpected and 
 surprising. it was a good surprize though. i like it alot. i have been playing the game for about 
 9 hours now and i am up to the last charecter in the game. he is a bigger challenge that i expected. 
 it is difficult because you have like 20 guys surrounding you and all swinging at the ssssame time. 
 i really dont know how i can beat him. but ill find a way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrim_10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is simply brilliant. The storyline is much better than I thought, especially with 
 the present day part. The combat is amazing! The smoothness of it, and the different counters and 
 combo kills is great. I only wish Ubi-soft had added more than 4 weapons. 
  
  The missions themselves are fun, they start off easy but later into the game everything is that 
 much tougher, people are more suspicious of you, you have more beggars, crazy people and thugs 
 getting in your way when your trying to pickpocket someone or when your trying to kill your target. 
 The assassinations themselves are easy, just a press of a button. But the hard part is getting 
 in and out alive. There are some bad parts though, the repetitiveness of getting to each target 
 may cause some people not to like this game but as long as it doesn't bother you, like me, then 
 this game just gets better and better. Other than that I can't think of anything else wrong with 
 this game.
  
  Although I have yet to finish the game, it is already one of my favourites of all time. A must 
 own, and one that keeps you glued to the tv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsfseal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Ive played it, and i feel like i am missing something. Of course climbing on everything like a 
 monkey is funa nd all. But the combat is way too easy for me. I justw ait for them to swing then 
 counter-over and over. I like to actually have to throw down some combos like Ninja Gaiden etc 
 etc... doesnt make me feel good after counter-killing 10 guys one after another. Ya go try and 
 swing a few times at them next thing you know your dead. So your almost stuck countering it feels. 
 otherwise its fun to just run around in this huge city, and do the various missions. I especially 
 like the helping the people missions where you save them from the guards unruliness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Multi-Magic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has got to be one of the finest games ever to be created. From its beautiful graphics, 
 to unique combat and to the vast size of the cities, it all adds up to not only a strong contender 
 for Game of the Year, but to Game of the Generation.
  
  Free-running can bring even more enjoyment to the gameplay weather it be running from a successful 
 assassation or just exploring the cities the game offers. You can spend hours just running around 
 and climbing on every building, structure and object and killing anyone and everyone to your hearts 
 content.
  
  Overall, this game is hopefully just the begining of whats left to come.... bring on Assassins Creed 
 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNxtGenKiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all, wow. This game is brilliant and if you own a 360 and not assassins creed then you 
 better get a move on tbh. This game cannot be missed if you value your pride lol
  
  What can i say. First of all you play an assassin Altair and the story is based around B. C. times 
 in 4 major cities, Damascus, Masyaf, Acre and Jerusalem. The scenery is brilliant and well coloured 
 giving the game a realistic and inspiring look. The story is brilliant and i wont spoil a big part 
 just incase you dont know whats coming, the story is based around science fiction.
  
  Altair, becomes a liability to the clan by breaking certain rules and therfore he is told to eliminate 
 9 people from 3 different cities. The game is not like Hitman or anything where you are told where 
 the target is and how to get to him, its more in depth than that. First of all you have to find 
 out who your actually killing by doing several investigations within the city and then you must 
 go fourth to ASSASSINATE. The cities are so detailed from the religious rants people make to the 
 market sellers to the guards harassing civilians. The public are very reacting to what you do e. g. 
 if you randomly run up a building they will surely comment and guards will react. There is just 
 too much to mention in this game so im trying to keep it short. The game is just basically cool, 
 a cool game with brilliant style. You walk in the city, you have a guy to kill. You cant get through 
 the city entrance so what do you do, sneak in of course. You walk round through this strange new 
 city pushing through the citizens with your hood up hiding your face. Your secret blade hides nervously 
 up your sleeve. You have several options which are investigations, you choose which to do. You 
 only have to do 2 to get the targets whereabouts but doing them all will get you achievments if 
 your on the 360. The investigations can be many things from extorting devious merchants or protestors 
 in a back alley, pickpocketing, helping other assassins do their dirty work or by sitting quietyly 
 on a bench listening into a conversation, however you find your target its up to you. Now we head 
 to the assassins bereau in which every city has and get the feather to wipe the targets blood on, 
 pretty cool eh, its an assassin thing. Now we find the target, its up to how you get to them and 
 kill them. Unlike Hitman there is no envrionmental way to kill your targets such as pushing them 
 secretly off ledges but killing them is still cool. Once your inside wherever they are, you walk 
 slowly up to them calm and ready for the strike, they walk past you and SLICE. Your secret blade 
 is in the chest. You then have a little speech with them, the victim respecting the assassin for 
 bringing them death and vise versa. The whole city is on lockdown or alert whatever once you kill 
 your target. Now you have to get out of the city, guards chase you and shout threats to you. You 
 can run up buildings and literally climb anything, ANYTHING. You can jump across anything that 
 is reachable all with easy controls. The guards are chasing you, do you carry on or bring out your 
 sword and fight, and the sword fighting is just remarkable. Now they are dead, hide for abit then 
 sneak out of the city get on your horse and head home to tell the good news.
  
  Im only on target 4 of this game but the first level will instantly have you hooked. It has everything 
 a great game has, good story, good graphics, good characters, good sound and good gameplay, what 
 more do you want?
  
  I gurantee you purchase this game as soon as you get the money as it is just too good to miss. 
 The only flaws i have found so far are the occasional A. I. glitch and sometimes when you try to 
 make Altair jump up a buliding he will just jump back off it and kill himself out of nowhere, but 
 apart from that this is a fantastic game and worth playing over and over. Please enjoy.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redzcavy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Overall, it is my opinion that this game deserves the game of the year award hands down. An Ubisoft 
 Montreal masterpiece. It has stunning graphics with a historically accurate history. This was everything 
 they said it would be and more. It uses a futuristic approach that leaves the game wide open for 
 its sequel. The game play is fantastic with an plot that keeps on developing. You'll want to play 
 it twice. I can't wait to find out what will happen in the version of the next game. This will 
 definitely set a new standard for action adventure games to come. This game deserves well more 
 than what some of the critics are saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sailmaster2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  After long hours of fighting off guards, and painstakingly tidious search for flags, finishing 
 the game just made me want to play it over again.
  
  My favorite part of this game is the fact that it's a free-roam that doesn't have the usual loading 
 screens, you can go around the whole map without having to wait, unless your entering a new city. 
 You can get to a high perch and see almost the entirety of the city, take a look to see if you 
 can spot some flags, and then plunge to ground with a nice swan dive.
  
  With missions that never get old and a striking, dual story line, this game keeps you enthralled 
 until your eyes hurt at 4 in the morning, and still keeps you awake to kill that last target.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckshotmike
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a really fun game. However, it shocks me that its high rating is such 
 a overwhelming consenus. This game is not what you think it is. It starts off as some kind of futuristic 
 science experiement were some crazy doctors believe they can extract memories of ancestors from 
 peoples DNA. 
  
  Yeah, I know. You dont believe me, but Im not lying. What is up with that? Next, the fighting is 
 soooo repetitive. You mash the X button about ten times until you finally break your opponent's 
 guard and then you kill him. Wow, thats fun.
  
  Next, you have to walk everywhere or people freak out and try to kill you. This includes when you 
 are riding your horse through the countryside. I dont understand why you have to walk your horse 
 around.
  
  Last, if you screw up a part, the game "rewinds" over and over until you get it right. No realism 
 in that.
  
  Overall, its a beautiful game and the CORE story of the assassins creed is sick. The worlds are 
 huge, but you pay the price with LONG loading screens.
  
  Its def not worthy of a 9.0 but is still a game worth playing for what it brings to the table. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Sometimes combining the best of two different things doesn't make a new better thing. Putting delicious 
 cheesecake on top of a tasty steak does not make an even better dish. This is how I feel about 
 Assassin's Creed. Take the cool vertical climbing element from Crackdown, combine the detailed 
 cityscapes of Oblivious, and toss in a dash of God of War combat and Prince of Persia storytelling. 
 Unfortunately the result isn't more than the sum of parts... in fact, it gets old rather quickly. 
 The game is beautiful, and the character modeling is among the best I've seen on a console. The 
 controls are interesting, the environments rich. But there is no real challenge other than that 
 of endurance, since you perform the same few basic tasks (climb viewpoints, gather info, and kill 
 people) over and over again, with no increase in difficulty or reward. There is a great idea in 
 AC, and I hope we see that idea developed further in another installment, but I simply cannot recommend 
 Assassin's Creed as more than a rental to show of the advanced graphics. Bummer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deema2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  When I first started the game I was in love with it right away. It starts with everything the review 
 here talks about. Beautiful graphics, sound, environment, great gameplay. But as you play for more 
 then 10-15 hours, you realize it's all the same thing. 
  In the game you will save around a 100 citizens - they have 3 or 4 phrases they will thank you 
 with, and 1 or 2 that they use to scream for help. After a few hours, it's very annoying. And why 
 do all interrogation targets look like the same man? The game supports great number of faces, but 
 for some reason they couldn't make the 10 we zoom in on different.
  The fun and engaging gameplay turns into routine really quick. Character development lacks, as 
 the basic attack and the counter are all you need to kill everyone. While I had fun with the other 
 weapons and moves at times, in the end they are just not worth the trouble. You can sneak in the 
 game, but it doesn't punish you not to. Last few levels I just ran through the streets, amassing 
 an army or pursuers, got to my next goal, killed everyone there and ran for the next goal. I killed 
 more people than I would've playing Conan.
  One thing that kept me going though was the story. I was genuinly interested in seeing how it ends, 
 and I stayed up late to finish the game last night. The ending plain simple sucks. It's not confusing, 
 it just sucks. No spoilers here, but the scientists just walk out of the room, saying that they 
 will be back and they never return. You can roam around the room, read their emails, find hidden 
 messages, trigger the credits and the achievement with them, and re-enter the animus to torture 
 your memory a little longer to replay old levels. And that's it - there is no ending. I understand 
 that it's a first part of the sequel, but still - I was expecting some sort of a "good job" in 
 the end. The only way I even realized that I've beat the game was because I got an achievement, 
 and when I read it, it said "complete Assasin's Creed". I really liked the game while it lasted, 
 and I really hated it during the last hour that I spent walking around the room, trying to figure 
 out what to do next, only to realize that there is no next. They just forgot to tell me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is the type of game that doesn't come along very often, the graphical greatness 
 and technical achievement is outstanding, though Plot Wise it failed to deliver.
  
  Since the E3 2006 I have been really excited about AC, the thought of playing an assassin and going 
 after the third crusade on paper looked great, though on disc it isn't, When you first load up 
 AC the main plot twist which wasn't a well kept secret was immediately established that wasn't 
 a bad thing though with a year's worth of speculating and it to be done that was seemed to abrupt 
 and pretty boring
  You start out with a pretty decent tutorial which gives you the basic's like blending, hiding and 
 attack's, when the game being's you are stripped of your class and weapons after a botched Assassination, 
 you are given the task of taking down 9 people of the third Crusade, doing this you first need 
 to go to the beuro in the city of your target and after talking to the beuro leader you have to 
 gather at least 3 information either by beating people up of pick pocketing or doing stuff like 
 collect flags of assassinate some soldier's for some guy, then when you have gathered at least 
 3 piece's of evidence you go back to the beuro and then you given the task of killing your target, 
 you can kill your target anyway possible, attack him head on or sneak up either way he must die.
 
  
  Now then all that I said, you have to repeat all of them 9 time's, every mission you have to go 
 to the beuro get information and climb view points for more objective's, all of that get's really 
 boring, repeating the same thing over and over it get's a little repetitive and get's quite boring, 
 you can basically climb or go anywhere, free-run from the guards or jump from building to building 
 and you can jump into carts of hay to hide, basically the same thing over and over again.
  Now all that said it is fun to assassinate people and is fun to attack multiple guards or free-run 
 and in graphical sense it's amazing but all that said AC has flaw's and flaws that should of been 
 dealt with, I'm not saying this game was released too early but it seem's ubi gave up after doing 
 the best bit, the graphic's and gameplay and they seemed to repeat the same thing over and over 
 again until it get's boring.
  The graphic's are the best thing about the game, they are the best thing I've seen in a long time 
 and the way Altair's cloak moves about is amazing, the voice acting is great Altair's voice seem's 
 "weird" he sound's like an American which doesn't fit with the game, the over voice acting is great.
 
  Now the free roaming is another amazing thing about AC, you can go anywhere you cant enter any 
 buildings but you can climb them which is a lot of fun
  
  Assassins Creed Isn't a bad game but with many repetitive moment's and a weird plot it seem's it's 
 not a game of the year contender but is still worthy to be in your collection and to be played 
 for years to come...
  
  I Give Assassins Creed a 8.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyke_666
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Okay this is one of the best games i'v ever played, the graphics the gameplay the soundtracks there 
 all so awsome! so heres a break down.
  
  Graphics: well were to begin? there are so many beutiful aspects of this game, such as the way 
 the clothing moves in the wind and how they have captured the historical beauty of the outstanding 
 citys, put simply its a few leaps and bounds ahead of the rest at the moment.
  
  Gameplay: Absoulutley mind blowing, the fighting is so amazing it is by far one of the best fighting 
 systems i have seen to date. And apart from the fighting there is the "free running" aspect that 
 is one of the best features of this game, and the way that the two combine to make what i personaly 
 think will revalutionise the action game ganre. The asassanations in this game are absoulutly outstanding 
 the way that the blood will come from the place your blade hit and not to mention the awsome way 
 that they have gotten around long boring cut sceenes, they let you decide from wht point you want 
 to see the cut sceene, from Atyle's view or in a premade cut sceene camera position.
  
  Life span: well this is proberly were the game has its most obvious down fall it only took me one 
 weekend to finish and the ending was not one of the best iv seen, it leaves many un-answered questions, 
 but i think that this will lead to a sequal wich if this is true i allready cant wait to play.
 
  
  Re-play factor: unfortunatly i dont think it has much, the side missions are preety esy to compleet 
 so i got those out of the way straight away and the main story is to short to realy want to replay.
 
  
  Best point: The beautiful landscapes and citys this game can sure as hell boast the best landscapes 
 of the year, infact you may even find you self just satnding on tall buildings and hills just gazing 
 over this spectacular site
  
  So overall it is a beutiful game but as any has its faults, but these are minor and can be forgotten 
 about once you get into submersiv storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmlopez79
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a fantastic game. It provide excellent visuals and its gameplay is awesome. 
 I believe Ubisoft hit in the target with the "Medieval" theme. The historic aspects are fantastic, 
 and the cities are incredible. The idea of seek the "genetic memory" its accurate in the game. 
 The only thing i don't like of this game is the end, but Ubisoft almost never brings great endings. 
 But in general terms the game its a fresh idea, i'm sure it is a Next Gen game that everybody has 
 to play. I want Assassin's Creed II, i believe the game has the potential for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDMB94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the must stunning games of the year! It's graphics will blow you're 
 mind. the level of detail is phenomenal. The story is strong and will pull you in. The game play 
 is amazing and will you keep you playing until you find every flag, kill every templar, climb every 
 point, and then make you want to play the game over again. The control scheme is extremely well 
 done also, when 
  i first heard about I had doubts but not any more. Now for the bad, the game play can sometimes 
 feel a little repetitive, there are a few small visual glitches, and it's somewhat short (but remember 
 this is just the first game in a three part series) . All of that is forgivable for a game of this 
 caliber. So if you have it and haven't beaten the game, got all the flags, kill every templar, save 
 every citizen, have all the view points, what are you doing reading this review get playing! If 
 you don't have it go out and get it. NOW!
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Story 9/10 
  Game play 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  Control 10/10
  
  Overall 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game first of all looks great and plays great! The enemy AI when you are being chased is also 
 pretty good considering they stay on you even if you get on a roof top. The game has a great story 
 and the achievements are great as well. This game has combined elements of Legend of Zelda, Grand 
 Theft Auto, and Hitman. You can do anything but everything comes with a cost. If you kill an innocent 
 civilian you lose health and sometimes guards will see you kill the person or you can be standing 
 next to the body and the guard sees the person on the ground is dead. One of the most interesting 
 parts of the game is that the building aren't warped out of shape like in traditional platformer 
 but it is actual architecture. The game has interesting features that help you get to your target. 
 You can interrogate, eavesdrop, and pickpocket people to get information. This game is amazing 
 with no technical flaws at all. The combat and the story is fantastic. This game is a must buy 
 for 360 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I know this game is not Prince Of Persia, but that is what I am going to compare parts of it to.
 
  
  Overall I have enjoyed this game way more than I thought I was going to. With HUGE cities, and 
 all of the exploration that you can do, this game can take as long, or as shrot of a time as you 
 want it to. 100 flags in each city! HOLY CRAP! 
  
  The graphics and level of detail are just awesome, after about 30 minutes of walking around the 
 cities I felt as if I was there, amongst all the people. 
  
  The controls are pretty smooth and easy to use, I never really found myself trying to figure out 
 or remember what button did what.
  
  The game play is where I get a little down on the game. With some of the platform aspects, I just 
 never really feel like I was challenged to complete an objective or climb.
  
  With climbing, it seemed like it is just point the guy in the right direction while holding down 
 A and he will climb by himself, no skill/interaction required by the player, so no true satisfaction 
 when getting to the top of a tower.
  
  With the surveillance missions I felt like I wanted to be the one to locate and identify the target, 
 but the game basically guides you right to the person and points them out. Then, you just have 
 to sit and listen. I was left with wanting to do my own investigation in order to find the targets.....
 
  
  Any way, it's a fresh game with great graphics and a good story line. This is a must have for any 
 Prince of Persia fans, and just gamers in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  You start the game as a hero with a more than arrogant attitude and a non-compromising sense of 
 confidence in your skill. You are soon striped of that your weapons and most of your abilities 
 and spent the most of the game earning them back. The interaction with every person on this game 
 is phenomenal and every thing from carpets on the wall to the hay in the charts, react when you 
 come into contact with it. The fact that you can update your map by climbing to the top of these 
 realistic buildings and look out over a breath-taking view of the city that you are planning to 
 murder people in. This game to me is like Prince of Persia meets Hitman. Another cool aspect to 
 this game is that once you are recognized by the guards you can chose to either fight or flee. 
 If do decide to flee the citizen in the city will either help or hinder, regardless of the two 
 of you are running they can become a obstacles causing you to lost your balance and even falling. 
 To made it fair the game designer have implemented counter measure like moving cover so you can 
 get closer to your target without being seen, or take cover after killing at times. This game will 
 not let you down; you own it to yourself to check it out (Peer Pressure) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: les_pinner-3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Now first thing first this game is so amazing I cant stop talking about it and secondly, I havnt 
 even completed the game and Im writing a review.
  I got this game the game came out (which is kinda sad) but I never got to play it straight away. 
 But when I finially did I was stuck to my TV for quite a few hours, now I dont want to spoil the 
 gameplay and story for anyone, but the gameplay and story is amazing. the graphics are really good, 
 the physics are not as good as I though but there still amazing (I know its just a game. but some 
 people will know what I mean) . Now from what I have played (3 1/2 hours) the story is a bit easy 
 to be lost in, but once you play the game a little bit you'll know were you are in the story. Gameplay, 
 real life movements is one thing I like in a game, and this game has it. Im sure all of you know 
 that you can take any path you want to your target (just like GTA IV) and I really like that option, 
 plus the side mission are really fun to do. But the best thing in this game is that you can climb 
 anything that is climbable (which is basically everything! And also features in GTA IV) but the 
 bad thing is that you can go in many buildings (but you can do in GTA IV) . Now the last thing Id 
 like to say about this game is, when Ive completed it I'll be playing it again because this game 
 is one of them games were you can play it over again and again. But Keep On Gaming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gundamned_Wing
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  To start with, This game does contain good features, only that of flashy graphics and free roam, 
 But without much inspiration what is there in Assassin's Creed? Well I ask you.
  
  First off, Sure yes the game may be massive, large towns and details, but I believe this game was 
 more based on "Impressive graphics and size" instead of actual gameplay mechanics.
  
  An example of this would be: A. I. (Artificial Intelligence for you newbies) .. and A. I. Is a joke, 
 Basically, add in guards who want to see you for dead for cardio excersize, or bumping into them 
 by accident, or just plain suspicion for almost no reason, but then assassinate someone in front 
 of a guard and he won't mind.
  
  This game is no where near realistic, lets point out a few examples.
  
  Example 1: Forumla 
 = 9083 foot tower, + jump off from the top into a hay stack = no broken bones, no scratches, not 
 even a bruise, yet in some cases, getting punched in the face will cause more damage than getting 
 hit with an arrow or sword (ordinary guards of course)
  
  Example 2: Now, lets say Joe killed Jake in front of Fat John the cop, Of course fat John woulden't 
 mind, as long as you don't run into him and make him drop his donut. (In Assassin's Creed terms... 
 Kill someone in front of a guard and he most likely won't give a crap, although range varies)
 
  
  Example 3: You're a human juggernaut, you can even take out rambo with that kind of power, but 
 in this case, well, *Cough* maybe you have master chief's armor hidden under that robe. considering 
 you can take so many hits and not fall, health recharges really slowly, I guess technology was 
 pretty primitive back then... Well I should cut the game some slack, recharging health is the new 
 thing these days.
  
  Oh and, is it never night time?
  
  Now lets have a say in what the heck you can do in this game..
  
  1: Save a ton of people from 
 guards. (who thank you in the same way every time with a few different phrases)
  
  2: Uh... Go on top of maybe an average of 20-30 towers per city and syncronize for a few boring 
 seconds, activating your GPS and relealing new things on your map.
  
  3: Find flags... Hundreds of flags.. literally.. and who has the patience to find all of them? 
 No me... Hell No..
  
  4: Oh, and can't forget, Save more people! consequence-free!
  
  5: Do the story I suppose..
  
  Those are the typical main things people would find to do in 
 this game, But perhaps I can improvise for some more things.
  
  1: Get into fights with random guards
  2: Listen to idle-threats.
  3: Stand around waiting 
 for night fall... *Cough*
  4: Scale the same tower and jump hundreds of times off it
  5: Ride the horse for hours on end
  
  but heck lets be realistic, who wants to do any of that? 
 No me. Unless you are a machine and somehow find endless fun out of killing infinite guards... (Or 
 maybe you are just trying to unlock achievements)
  
  The attacks you can do consist of four options, Short blade/throw knife, Hidden Blade (For stealth 
 assassinations) , Sword and last of all your FISTS OF FURY! 
  
  I could go on but I feel as if I should just end this with a conclusion
  
 
  This game is too short, the story is mainstream... I saw what was coming early in the game and 
 I was correct. I recommend you only rent this game. Unless you really really really suck at video 
 games and find this game to be an ultimate test of your skill, that might increase the life of 
 this game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoma7500
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  review for assassins creed
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  huge fun running across rooftops and killing guards on roofs and the games citys are stunning in 
 size and graphics. The game asks you to kill 9 key guys and thats really about it apart from that 
 you can run around looking for flags on roofs and hidden areas. You do the same thing over and 
 over the only difference is you kill different people but all the same way until you complete the 
 game and this is a majoy dissapointment why make an open world game where you do the same thing 
 over and over this is a waste of the games size surely the obvious thing to do is take advantage 
 of the world you are working with.
  
  graphics
  10/10 stunning to look at and destroy gears of war in my personal opinion.
  
  verdict
  stunning 
 looking game that can be really fun but not as good as you were led to believe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed should have got a 10 they said it had a confusing ending, it kind of did, but 
 if you followed the story you would know whats going on. It ends like their will be another one 
 if they want to make another one. I HOPE THEY  The game has 
 a great story line even thoe I didn't think the story would go anything they way it did, but still 
 great. The controls are so smooth the nicest controls I have ever played. The ending is great, 
 This is better than bioshock considering how everyone said that wasa the best single player game 
 , I hated bioshock. Assassin's Creed is a tru masterpiece. It is hands down the best game of 07. 
 It was also very underrated. Everyone thought Halo or CoD4 would be the best, but I think Assassin's 
 Creed. It is way better than Halo 3, because halo is crap. Now its card to top Call of Duty 4, 
 but I think it did. In 08 that a different story with all the great games like GTA 4, ARMY OF TWO, 
 and Too Human and tons more but for 07 Assassin's Creed is the best. So what more can I say except, 
 just go buy Assassin's creed and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbuckley
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  This is a hard game to review. Its probably the only game where you will see scores from 6 -10 
 and after playing it can relate to both reviews. Lets look at the postives first.
  
  The game is wonderful to look at. The art and style of the game is really awesome, really really 
 awesome. The way you move and run about and the fighting mechanics are also very original and innovactive. 
 The three cities are great and climbing and jumping is fun. The first 6 - 10 hours are a pleasure 
 to play.
  
  Now the bad. The game is repetitive. Now i dont mind repetitive play as long as it is fun but every 
 boss is the same once you have completed the first 3. The bosses are not well thought out, i mean 
 really poor. You should be able to watch from afar and plan an assasination but this is not possible 
 for the most of them. Its is normal to get noticed (for a few bosses you have to get noticed to 
 trigger boss fight) and have a circle of guards and the boss around you not really being able to 
 tell which is which eventually he will die in the crowd and the last bosses, man it really sucks. 
 Also the cut scenes, hmmmmm. Now some are good but the damn scene where you resue people etc are 
 beyond annoying. you cannot escape them and cannot move until its done and considering you need 
 to do like 50 of them it can really be annoying. The beggars and the mad people that push you, 
 damn those kind of things should never be seen in a next gen console its really really poor and 
 soooooo annoying.
  
  now it sounds like a lot of negative but this is a good game. If more time had been spent on those 
 small gameplay issues it would have been a 9-10 score. Its definately worth playing but i spent 
 20-30 hours on it and straight away traded it as i wont ever play it again and was glad it was 
 finished i couldnt wait for it to be over at the end. After 10 hours i began to get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe_336
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Some gaming sites have given this game scores under an 8/10, a few even below a 7/10. I for one 
 cannot see how.
  
  The first thing that I was impressed by was the fact that the developers didn't let slip what you 
 learn the instant you start up a new game and you wouldn't really expect from previews... And which 
 I won't reveal so you can experience it yourself. Lets just say its an interesting story mechanic 
 that allows the game to flow more fluidly as a whole reality, and adds to the story in general.
 
  
  The second thing I liked was the different way the controls behaved in comparison with other games 
 I played. Sure, at first it feels weird because its different, but pretty soon you get used to 
 the fact that A controls feet functions, X is your weapon hand, B is your free hand, and Y is your 
 head. Also they implement the triggers to distinguish High and Low profile actions, the difference 
 being that a High profile move is more likely to get you noticed by a guard, Low the opposite (Although 
 honestly I think the only use for L trigger is to lock onto people which allows you to perform 
 some low profile techniques which you don't do otherwise) . An example of the right trigger implementing 
 a High profile move would be that, normally when walking and holding the B button, you use your 
 free hand to casually move the crowd aside so you can pass. If you hold the Right trigger while 
 moving and holding B, you'll move at a jogging pace and knock people aside as you barrel through 
 crowds. However your greatest ally in this game will be Free Running. For those who don't know, 
 Free Running is an urban activity that involves running through cities and, with seeming effortless 
 ease, traversing walls, railings, and heights that most would be too timid to dare. It also involves 
 scaling buildings for some and you'll be doing all of this with the simple use of the Right Trigger, 
 A button, and your left thumb stick. Simply hold down the first two and run at a building, if there's 
 a handhold our hero will find it and use it to clamber up the side of the building. All other games 
 that restrict you to the ground level without a ladder will feel so confining now... Oh well. Another 
 interesting aspect of control is combat. Now, as one might expect in a game called "Assassin's 
 Creed" (Henceforth "AC" FYI) there are assassination attacks that you implement with your awesome 
 hidden blade. Honestly these have been done in games like Tenchu before, but they are still awesome 
 enough to be of positive note. Also you have throwing knives which are, again, not so different 
 from shurikens in Tenchu. Something that I found different was the combat. Unlike most games which 
 rely on combo systems and/or a simple "Break the guard and mash those buttons" tactic, "AC" uses 
 an interesting (Occassionally frustrating) timing based system where you push the X button as your 
 sword clashes with your opponents to eventually land a killing blow. This could mean you kill your 
 opponent in 3 strokes or seven, it depends on how well you time your blows. The game also incorporates 
 counters which are very useful as they can potentially counter pretty much any enemy attack, again 
 with proper timing. The only time I ever felt overwhelmed in combat, or that the system was not 
 working for me was in a late battle where I was greatly outnumbered by a number of highly skilled 
 soldiers, as such it may have been their combat skill rather than inadequacy in the system that 
 caused my repeated failures. But if you get used to this system, most battles should be simple 
 enough for you. One tue issue I could draw against the combat is the ease of killing foes through 
 fall damage. In the field especially, all you need do is climb a tower and wait for your opponents 
 to follow you up. Then simply grab them by the jerkin they wear and hurl them off to their death. 
 I once had 20 corpses at the foot of a ladder using this tactic and scarce a scratch on me. However 
 this is mainly useful in the field area, not so much in the cities and its more amusing than a 
 pitfall for the game (Similarly the fact that in your home city you can politely "Gentle Push" 
 some guards standing on a cliff to their deaths as they try to step aside) . Finally I'll say that 
 some of the missions that you go on can be somewhat repetitive, but the setup is always fresh so 
 you generally feel like its something new and they're relevent to the plot.
  
  The third thing of which I'd like to speak is the story, which I was impressed by. Its just a good 
 story: The main character develops as the world and rest of the story develops; its an interesting 
 look at the differences between Christianity and Islam and the Crusades; its got some pretty good 
 philosophy points that, if you aren't constantly engrossed in philosophy you should find interesting. 
 One thing that I found interesting about the enviroment is, that as the story progresses there 
 are more poor and crazy people out on the streets that will randomly come up and pester you, and 
 as such I found myself thinking "I wish all these poor/crazy people would just get off the street 
 and out of my way." It was interesting to wonder if such a response reflects a real world thinking, 
 that the poor and mentally handicapped are hindrances to one's own movement in life. Not consciously 
 perhaps, but subconsciously. Also there are preachers of Christianity and Islam in respective cities 
 that may cause a response in you, it was interesting just to be in an enviroment that felt rather 
 alive. Finally, I read on Penny Arcade that some reviewers didn't understand the ending or found 
 it confusing. I don't see how as it clearly sets up for a sequel, but not like Halo 2 did. Its 
 a clear ending to the game, it simply sets up for a sequel, and for the sake of all things good 
 wait till after the cedits. People who don't watch credits for worthwhile things are such wankers. 
 Gosh!
  
  Oh, plus point four? Graphics. Just look at them, you don't need a paragraph on this.
  
  Finally, 
 some problems I've had with the game. My first and favorite gripe is the stupidity of the awareness 
 system which functions not so differently from that in Metal Gear Solid with one major difference: 
 Hide Spots. If you are in the Red status, the guards can see you and running to a hide spot won't 
 work. However, if you break line of sight jumping into a hide spot for about 7 seconds will cause 
 them to give up. HOWEVER if you simply cause them to lose line of site for say... 30 seconds... 
 Standing right next to the hide spot but not using it, no one seems to be coming after you at all 
 but apparently they haven't given up yet... Still its in the yellow searching mode. But if you 
 hop into the hide spot for 7 seconds, all of a sudden they give up. Even though they hadn't been 
 able to find you for the minute before then, because you used the hide spot they gave up. Sometimes 
 you just gain so much distance they give up, but this rarely happens outside of you riding a horse 
 of the field map. Which is gripe number two: You are the only guy who rides a horse outside of 
 Kind Richard (I hope the fact that he's in a game about the Crusades wasn't a spoiler for anyone) . 
 Sure you just left an enemy encampment on one of their 5 horses, but do they mount up to give chase? 
 Nope, they decide that going on foot would be best. But, again, I find this more amusing than annoying. 
 One thing I do find annyoying is gripe number three: strange climbing. Sometimes you will demand 
 that Altair climb to that post thats right in front of him, but he will say no. However if you 
 move one position to the right suddenly he says "Oh, that post, sure." I had this happen to me 
 on several occassions and I will couple this problem with the "Just jump to the frickin' post!" 
 problem which is when Altair, against all better judgment, thinks you want him to jump 2 feet to 
 the left into the water (Which he can't swim in by the way) rather than onto the post that you 
 wanted him to. As frustating as the latter was at one point, it was at least half my fault for 
 over compensating. There are also a few minor graphical issues: People passing through the surface 
 of cliff faces at points, eagles flying through you and towers, Altair magically rotating 90 degrees 
 mid-air (Very rare, only happened once and was hilarious) , and that weird glitch where dead bodies 
 start wavering around the environment like a spazzy ghost (Also rare, happened maybe 3 times) . 
 But I expect a few glitches, and honestly the game looks so good besides that you're kind of like 
 "Hey, a glitch!... On such a pretty looking stone tower, oooo."
  
  Oh, and the music is nice and approptiate too, though I wouldn't buy the soundtrack personally.
 
  
  So, to sum up:
  
  Good
  +Graphics
  +Innovative Gameplay
  +Free Running
  +Story
  +The World
  
  Meh
  :Music
  :Missions
  :Finding Flags
  :Combat
  
  Bad
 
  -When Climbing goes bad
  -Missing your jump when its not your fault
  -The occassional graphical glitch
  -Occassional frustrating combat scenario
  -Stupid alert 
 system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rovershack
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I am not one to buy a game when it first comes out, but I was waiting for this one. I have 
 not been dissapointed. I can see where some people have knocked the game for the combat ease because 
 once you get the hang of counter attacks combat it pretty easy. Just get backed into a corner and 
 then take on the enemies one at a time. I have really enjoyed this game, and am close to finished 
 it off. Though I might play through it again just to enjoy the scenary... and find all the dang 
 FLAGS.
  
  The GOOD:
  Absoluetly beautiful world. The movement freedom in the cities is amazing. If it looks like you 
 can climb it, grab it or jump on it... you can. Battle graphics are good, killng moves look great 
 without being over the top gory. I especially like low profile assasinations where you lower the 
 victim to the ground slowly. THE CITIES, wow. Just climbing some of the taller towers gives me 
 the heebee geebees. The 3D on the heights is amazaing. Finding ways to stealth assainate is fun. 
 My favorite Oblivion thing is sneek, so stealth is fun. Running accross the roofs of the city, 
 the best way to travel. Being it's about assasinations, stealth is the rule of thumb. Again, the 
 graphics, amazing old world view of the historical cities, and the ability to interact with the 
 environment in Prince of Persia fasion just does it all for me! So, if you are a fan of Prince 
 of Persia gameplay, you will probably like this one as well. Good story line, really keeping me 
 interested in finding out the ending.
  
  The BAD:
  Not sure about the re-playability, unless you are just wanting to enjoy the amazing graphics again. 
 The AI is a little weak. If a guard on the roof spots you, as long as you hide or drop to a ledge 
 quickly, they will forget about you. That's not really realistic. If you are hack and slash player, 
 I am pretty sure that you will get bored quickly. The combat just isn't that interesting. Get backed 
 into a corner and counter, counter, counter. The world outside the cities is pretty shallow. Basically 
 just looking for high points and flags. Once you have been through this part of the game once you 
 can just fast travel. This aspect lacks the free roam ability of Oblivion, though the ability to 
 interact with the city environment makes up for it. Remember trying to jump to a ledge in Oblivion 
 and just falling because you don't really interact with anything less then a walkable surface. 
 This makes up for that. Like above, if you hated Prince of Persia combat and movement, you probably 
 won't like this one either. 
  
  Bottom line:
  Amazing Graphics are to die for.
  Structure interaction is way cool.
  Cool historical cities.
  Good story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmarrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Theres not much to say about assassins creed that can really describe why it is such an amazing 
 game, the idea is pretty simple, the combat is even simpler and the stealth is as simple as holding 
 down one button and pretending to be a scholar (the guys in the white robes, there not monks)
 
  
  yet, through all this simplicity comes hours and hours of pure fun, the controls for combat are 
 just, x to attack, R to block and R+X when an enemys attacking to counter, simple eh? yes very 
 simple, but unbelievably fun! Even with these controls, your still thinking about every movement 
 you make. I actually spent, close to 5 hours, just taking it in turns with my friend killing people, 
 and this was before we had done any missions, the very first section of the game! 4 hours!
  
  Then you have the sci fi 'bit', this is probably been the best kept secret in gaming history, 
 and trust me, it does not dissapoint. Not spoiling anything, but it will have you screaming WHY 
 IS MY WARDROBE OPEN
  
  The freerunning is increbly fun, and the vast enviroments just make the game what it is, the animations 
 are so fluid, rather then stopping one animation and then it starting another, the animations blend 
 in with one another, making going from a sprint to scholar ends up with a funny little jog.
  
  all in all this game is probably one of the best 360 games out there right now, seriously.
 
  
  o and if you want to add to the longevity, dont do all the investigation missions at once, do the 
 required 2, then go through the game a few more times, with different combinations
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h_alipanahgold
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  grafik is imazing 4 heug city in the game but very short loading story is very good this game is 
 best game on 2007 and maid a new jenration 
  grafic 10
  sond 9.5
  story 10
  phisic 10
  gameplay 10
  
  total 10 
  this game in ps3 have a very bad grafik and very low 
 frame 
  
  total scory in ps3 is 7
  
  it is an other sucsses for xbox 360
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it int 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregcop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Almost no game really lives up to the hype it gets before it's released, but Assassin's Creed comes 
 very close. Tight controls, fun game play, outstanding and fluid environments, as well as an engaging 
 storyline make this title worth almost every 360 owner's time. Some aspects of the game, such as 
 many of the side missions can get a little repetitive and hearing the same dialog repeated endlessly 
 can be a bit grating at some points, but all of the high points definitely outweigh the few negatives. 
 My only real issue is that I will have to wait so long to play the sequels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andypak
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Splinter Cell series. I love its realistic graphic, gameplay and action. Half 
 year ago when I saw Assassin's Crreed in the preview of Gamespot, I though this game was as realistic 
 as Splinter Cell since it was created by the creator of Splinter Cell. 
  
  I have played half of levels of Assassin's Creed. The graphic is superb. Every objects are as realistic 
 as expected. However, the control of Altar is awful. In fact I simply hold RT + A, then push the 
 Left Stick, the character could jump over the obstacle automatically, or he could climb the wall 
 automatically. I don't need to press any button to control the jump. For a novice gamer, it's a 
 good design. However, for a gamer like me (25 years gaming experience) , it's just too easy, and 
 boring. 
  
  On the other hand, the people in the city are not very interactive with the character. Altar can 
 gentle push them, knock them, or kill them. However, I couldn't talk with them. I think "The God 
 Father" did a better job in handling pedestrain than Assasin's Creed. Something is very weird. 
 In the whole city, many civilians are harrased by guards at the same time. Altar only have one 
 option to save the civilians -- kill the guards. However, after killing the guards, it won't alert 
 other guards much. Altar is an assassin. It doen't make sense to kill so many guards in order 
 to save civilians. It just creates too much alert. 
  
  The most unreleastic thing of this game is falling of Altar. He could jump from a very high tower 
 without any damage. He has to climb up towers in order to inspect surroundings. However, he couldn't 
 inspect surrounding area by just walk to there. 
  
  For the combat gameplay, it is even easier than Prince of Persia Classic. The sword duel is just 
 too easy although it looks superb. 
  
  I don't recommend this game to anyone who desire releastic gameplay and physics. This game is only 
 suitable for the one who even couldn't control Mario Bros. This game is designed for novice gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is simply an amazing game. From the moment you begin to play the game it truly 
 sucks you in. With its wonderful crowd mechanics, beautiful graphics, and large cities, it's hard 
 not to be. It's graphics are simply the best I have seen on the 360 to date and an only be described 
 as perfect, from the lighting effects to the cities buildings, it is simply perfect. The game play 
 is so simple and fluid that it should set the standard for this generation. The combat and climbing 
 are so simple and well done it looks as though you are watching a well choreographed movie and 
 is the best i have every seen in a video game. The games jumping stealth assassin move with the 
 hidden blade is easily one of the coolest things I have ever seen in a video game. The voice acting 
 is well done and the story, while slightly confusing, is passable. One thing keeps this game from 
 being a solid 9, it's too repetitive. From the first mission to the last it is the same thing, 
 go to local bureau, climb a couple high points, investigate, assassinate. The only differences 
 are in the assassinations themselves. While repetitive, Assassin's Creed is truly amazing and very 
 immersive, a must have this holiday season and any 360 or PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackle2071
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one the most anticipated games of 2007. For the most part the game seems to 
 do good on all the attention it's gotten over the years, but a few small weak links tend to rear 
 there ugly head to make up the big picture. In a game that is other whys flawless. I won't spoil 
 the games plot for you. I will say that it's more engaging then you might expect and leaves you 
 wanting oh so much more by the end. Matter a fact the only real bad thing about the game's story 
 is the ending. But I will let you make your own opinion on that your self.
  
  The idea of the game is you're an assassin during the crusades (1119AD) your tasked to bring 8 
 men to justice (kill) the Assassinations them self pretty much all play out the same but more on 
 that later. One of the main hooks of Assassin's Creed is you have 3 historical Cities to explore. 
 Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus. When you first walk into one of these cities you will indeed be blow 
 away by several things. First the sheer number of the crowd, the number of NPC's that riddle the 
 city streets is amazing. All of who seems to have a place and purposes in the world. Women will 
 carry pots on there head Merchants will try and entice you to check out they're goods and angry 
 drunks will try and pick fights with you. It is truly a sight to see. The city it self is well 
 detailed and HUGE with little to no scale backs. Once the pure shock wears off you come to realize 
 the city streets are nothing more then for show. You can't really interact in any way with any 
 of the city NPC's. Which is kind of a let down in some ways. The only real purposes they sever 
 in most cases it seems latter in the game will be to annoy the crap out of you! Beggars are the 
 worst. Every now and then a women will come up running to you begging for food or money. All you 
 can do is push her out of the way (or try and push her out of the way) It would have given the 
 game some more depth if you could some how interact with the city rather then just the citizens 
 being opstical for you dodge when you get into a chase.
  
  The Assassinations in the game are all completed in the same fashion. Go to the assassin's bureau 
 get a idea of where to start your investigation repeat. Before you kill your Target you need to 
 luern where he is hiding in the city. You find this out by completing a series of tasks. ESE dropping, 
 Pick pocketing and Integration. ESE dropping is the easiest of the three. Simply find the target 
 sit on a bench press a button and lesion to what information he gives you and that's it. Pick poketing 
 is almost the same thing. Hang back and select the target in question. Once the mini cut scene 
 plays you follow him threw the city streets waiting for the perfect moment to strike. Pick poketing 
 it self is easy. Simply walk up behind hind the target and press B. the only trick is to know when 
 to strike. But sence this task repeats it self many times threw out the course the game you will 
 have a pretty good handle on it by the end! Integration is done by finding your target (the target 
 seems to always be giving a speech of some sort) wait for him to enter a dark ally then beat the 
 crap out of him with your mitts till he talks. 
  
  Once you have completed you investigation you return to the bureau to receive authorization to 
 assassinate the target. Now I don't know about you but when I think Assassin I think stealth. This 
 seems not to be the case in AC. It would seem your job is to make a giant special of your self 
 when assassinating the target. You can try a stealthy approach but it seems like more work then 
 it's really worth. Once the kill is done you will be treated with a cut scene with Altiar and the 
 target exchanging words. Once that's done next comes the chase!! You must escape the area and make 
 it back to the assassin's bureau in one piece and not followed! So you need to give the guards 
 the slip! This is not all that challenging because the AI in AC is completely brain dead. You can 
 choose to stick it out for a while and fight but your going to have to break there line sight sooner 
 or later if you want to progress the game. The line of sight is represented with a single icon 
 in the top left hand corner of the screen. Red means there on to you Yellow means you have broken 
 the line of sight and now need to hide. And white means everything is all good in the hood! This 
 is in some respects is where AC really shines. "Free Running" a crossed roof tops is a real rush! 
 Free Running allows you to make great giant leaps and dives a crossed objects Jackie chan styl} e. 
 Some of the best moments of the game can be found platforming around the city. Oh you can climb 
 buildings jump from great heights and feel like a bad ass the whole time. Atiair's animations look 
 great. There are no awkward transitions as he makes his leaps from place to place! 
  
  Once in a while you will need to get your hands dirty and take on a number of guards. This is can 
 be great fun but at the same time be a little under whelming. For example no matter how many times 
 you do it, it never gets old stabbing a guy and the gut! Often you will be out numbered. But that 
 won't really matter. In true kung-fu movie styl} e each enemy will attack you one at a time. All 
 you really need to do in this case is counter there moves where you will treated with a vary staffing 
 finishing move! The combat is far from deep. But in some cases it can be exciting.
  
  Over all the game meets and fails at the hype it was given over the years. When you can get sucked 
 into the atmosphere you feel like a bad ass assassin the story is keeps you wanting more and ultimately 
 you walk away happy. Some bugs and weak AI really can bring down the over all experience though. 
 Over all I still give the game a 9/10 but I say rent it over buying it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forerunner0027
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry to have to say (or rather write) this; but Assassin's Creed is without a doubt the biggest 
 disapointment of 2007.
  
  Back at E3 06, Jade Raymond and Ubisoft promised us the world; a serious, true to life crusade 
 era epic that would take video games to a whole new level. What they delevered a best underachieves; 
 and at worst, feels almost totally broken.
  
  The game's hero is Altair, (pronounced All-Tie-Ear; the arabic word for eagel) a member of The 
 Brotherhood Of Assassins in the year 1191. but the story really isn't about him, but rather Desmond 
 Miles, a descendent 40 generations removed from him; Who is forced by a mysterious company called 
 Abstergo to relive his forefather's life through the Animus: a Matrix like device that creates 
 a simulation of an ancestor's experiences, by way of genetic memory. Altair's plot centers on his 
 quest to reclaim his lost honor by stopping a Knights Templar conspearicy and ending the 3rd crusade. 
 
  
  I'm not criticizing the Writers for including the sci-fi story line, in fact; it adds a lot to 
 the naritive, which is easily the game's strongest field, but it seems like an odd choice to reveil 
 it at the very begening, insted of using it as an end of first act shocker. 
  
  The story also paints the Assassins as a band of secular vigilantes rather then the order of islamic 
 monks that they were; but it's consistant with the game's walking on egg shells approach to the 
 setting's teological issues.
  
  Gameplay is where Creed most spectacularly fails. The controlls in a zelda-esq 'pupiteer' style 
 the 'x' and 'b' buttons operate Altair's right and left arms, the 'y' button puts the camera into 
 first-person and give you an absoultly useless aura sense. Holding down the right trigger you into 
 High-Profile mode: letting you fight, jump, and free-run. This sounds cool on paper; and it is 
 on the rare occasons when it works, the game's auto-jumping is twitchey and can just as easly send 
 you falling to your doom, then your escape. (though if altair lands in a bail of hay he can drop 
 60 stories without a scratch.)
  
  A. I is another area that Ubisoft promised revolotion; but the NPCs in Creed are dumb as a sack 
 of hammers. Crowdgoers and guards won't bat an eye if you stab someone or scale a building in front 
 of them; but they'll compleatly freak out if you break into a run or bump in to somebody.
  
  One would think that Assassin's Creed would be a stealth game, but you'd be wrong. There's 
 no penaltey what so ever for raising an alarm; which can happen for no decernabel reason, and the 
 best way to shake you persuers is to simply kill them all; which brings me to combat. The counter 
 attack-centric swordplay is fun, fluid, and realistic; the only probabum is that you have just 
 two primary weapons, and just a dozen or so animations for each. Kicking a guard in the nads and 
 cutting his head off is awesome the first ten times you see it, but it starts to get old after 
 100.
  
  Speaking of growing old: before you can do away with one of your primary targets, you must first 
 compleat at least three information gathering missions which consist of: pickpocketing, evesdropping, 
 beating a lacky into talking, and running errneds for other Assassins; these are bad enough to 
 suffer through once, let alone on every hit, and the submissions NEVER change!
  
  You can pad out the game even more by freeing monks and old women from gaurds, climbing view points, 
 and collecting hundreds of hidden flags.
  All of this is as boring as it sounds, and makes no sense what-so-ever in the context of the game.
 
  
  In closing; Assassin's Creed is a game that had limitless potential, but was wasted by failed, 
 misguided, and down right asanine design choices.
  
  A damn shame
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tizzy112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was by far one of the greatest games of all time. The visuals were amazing. A few glitches 
 now and then but still good. The storyline kept me on the edge of my seat the whole way through. 
 Though a really confusing ending but hey i think i smell a sequel! The fighting system was made 
 perfect for this game the counter moves couldn't get me even more thrilled than i already was. 
 The weapon choices were good, maybe a few more would've been cool. The best thing of all though 
 is Free running. Anything that was sticking out i could climb onto it was incredible. The AI is 
 alright but could've been improved, i would've also liked to see more hiding areas, and maybe even 
 some more cooler moves on the horse. All in all its an amazing game and can't wait for the sequel 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAG_The_OG
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The game play is simple but still enjoyedable. With its stunning graphics and free running made 
 it feel more realistic. Though the camera does need some work, in battle objects do not turn transparent 
 making hard sometimes to see whos attacking. The story line could get confusing at first, but after 
 playing for a bit it begins to become clear. while at one of the city ports, it took for ever to 
 reach a view point, Because of the fact of the free motion and just stupidly jumping in the water 
 automaticly. also climbing to get to certain view points were hard to reach, for lack of plat forms 
 to reacg it. other then that the game was great, reaching roof tops was simple and the reaction 
 of the crowds were amazing on how the respond to fights, pickpockets or dead bodies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nunez12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from gamefly. com, and at first I really was dissappointed, but once I started 
 to understand what was going on and get the controls down... I loved it. I would have to say that 
 this is definitely one of the best games that I have ever played. I would not buy this game simply 
 because once you get all the achievements and you do all of the story and such there is nothing 
 else to really do, but I would definitely give this a rent. Well anyways, the story I rated a 10 
 because it's just a very clever story and a very good one. You actually will not be able to wait 
 to see the ending of this one. The graphics are also very good, the world around you is filled 
 to the brim with details and great effects to make you really feel like your in ancient cities. 
 The controls and gampley I also rated a 10 because the are very smooth and work great. 
  
  Storyline: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Gamplay: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I just finshed Assassin's Creed and something strange happened. I dont know if i loved the game 
 or not. Could i take it or leave it? Maybe. One thing that AC has going for it is graphics. I havent 
 seen a better lookingg game, nor have i been more suprised at how much detail could be implemented 
 in a video game, it is truly remarkable. Everything from Altair to the cities he frolics have an 
 immense amount of graphical chops - IT IS SICK! interacting with the gorgeous scenery and climbing 
 is well executed and I marveled at the lifelike animation that Altair was given. It is beyond compare 
 and may be the best designed main charatcer in any game I have played.
  
  Sadly, the above statements might be the pinnacle of AC's achievements. the gameplay is exhilirating 
 at times, but only at times. while i will say that stealth kills with the hidden balde never get 
 old, other things do. there are a lot of button mashing situations mixed into the intuitive precision 
 controls that AC brings, but too much of the former and not enough of the latter. counter kills 
 are great and the quick mini cut scene animations that accompany them are satisfying, but sometimes 
 you dont kill an enemy when you counter and sometimes you do - I found that annoying at times. 
 sometimes i got doubled teamed during battle, sometimes not. The combat engine definitely tests 
 your reaction time and reflexes, which is good, but may prove too much for the casual gamer. Dont 
 get me wrong Altair is a bad ass, and I think controling him was a dream at times, but I did have 
 my share of  moments. 
  
  My other gripe is that the investigations dont offer any real bonus other than drawing your attention 
 to something you may or may not see when it comes time to bring the blade to your targets throat. 
 If doing the investigations gave more of a reward, like a disguise to use (too hitman - i know) , 
 or access to a secret passage if you fleshed out every bit of pre-assassination info, then i think 
 there would be more incentive to explore. There is no dancing around the repetition here, and may 
 frustrate an impatient gamer (but not this guy) . 
  
  the story is well told and i ahve always been a big fan of crusade period fiction/non-fiction and 
 i have to say the story kept me engaged throughout. The dual stories add an interesting twist and 
 i will definitely buy the sequels, because i know that Ubisoft will polish what looks to be a great 
 series for years to come. Overall a really good game, with a few flaws that hold it back from true 
 greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-SPECTRE
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  An absolute amazing game. The graphics are well-defined and sharp. The gameplay is learn as you 
 go. I do not like all of the repetition that the game has but, it makes up for it with its storyline. 
 I was disappointed at first, thinking this was a true 'stealth' game. I would like to have some 
 sort of penalty for being seen while on an assassination mission. When confronted by a few guards, 
 I noticed that if you were in a corner or backed up against a wall, sometimes the camera angle 
 would be hindered by any obstacles around you making it difficult to see any oncoming attacks. 
 
  I purchased the game guide to aid in locating the flags around the map. I really do not like the 
 in-game map you have, especially in the Kingdom. I noticed that your locator was not always accurate. 
 The flag locations in the game got quite confusing when using the in-game map and the guides map. 
 It is a HUGE world and I am spending most of my time exploring every location making sure I have 
 all of the King Richard flags. All in All, I totally love the game, frustrated at times, and recommend 
 it to anyone with a lot of time on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daien90
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that simply shouldn't be missed by anyone, regardless of skill or interest.
  The graphics are probably the best i've ever seen, with the highest level of detail in even the 
 smallest things. the visuals are sure to impress through the entire game. 
  the sound design is on par with the visuals. the music with fade in and out at just the right moments. 
 the sound of your blade cutting through your victims is both brutal and satisfying. and through 
 each of the 3 massive cities, you will hear beggars asking for food, drunks mumbling to themselves, 
 guards harassing civilians, merchants advertising their wares, and preachers standing in front 
 of churches and on stages heralding the word of god.
  The controls are simple, making controlling Altair a joy instead of a chore. Simply holding a couple 
 buttons according to your situation, he will leap from building to building, block and counter 
 enemy attacks, disguise himself as a scholar, or charge through the streets knocking down anything 
 in his path.
  the story behind the game is also worthy of note, though might be the only weak point. its not 
 quite a epic or emotional. but thats not saying its a terrible story. without exposing too much, 
 it tells about a conspiracy, and a war thats been raging between the assassins ans the templars 
 for generations, with a few neat and unexpected twists, Eventually coming to a conclusion that 
 strongly points toward the possibility of a sequel.
  Finally, the difficulty finds the perfect balance, and with some practice with the controls, you'll 
 find yourself fighting off huge swarms of guards without even breaking a sweat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is the new game by the Prince of Persia tSoT developers. 
  You play as Altair from 1191 and Desmond Miles from September 2012, thats all i'm saying about 
 the plot.
  
  Some people complain about the game's control scheme, why? Because they're one track mind idiots 
 who cant tell a toaster from a microwave. The controls are easy as hell to use, and you'll probably 
 learn them in around 15-20 minutes, unless you're somebody's mother, in which case you will probably 
 never ever learn the controls to any video game exept for pong. The gameplay is fairly repetetive 
 involving, A) Get to City B) Investigate C) Get to Targate and Assassinate D) Run the **** away. 
 Now for some reason I never really found anything wrong with this, sure it's repetetive, but the 
 game is so fun, you wont really care.
  
  The graphics in this game are totally awesome. Though the character models apart from Altair and 
 Desmond are fine, the other character models look fine, but their lip movement and such isnt that 
 good, their animation is sort of jerky too. Altair the main character though, has phenomenal animation 
 and just animates great.
  
  The Voice acting in this game is great, on all characters... exept for Altair. Altair's voice actor 
 isn't really BAD, it's just that he isnt GOOD, he displays a serious lack of emotion, but you'll 
 get used to it eventually. The music is amazing, especially the after assassination chase music.
 
  
  This game offers some replay value, but after you beat the story, there's nothing else you'll really 
 want to do. Well you could go out and kill Templars and collect flags for achievements. You could 
 play the story through again but... the replay value's in the middle here.
  
  In the end Assassins Creed is a great game that atleast need to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFrenchMan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  It is a deceptively deep game even though the gameplay is somewhat repetetive. Aren't games like 
 world of warcraft repetetive? So I don't see it's repetitiveness as a flaw, but as a strength because 
 it never gets old. Don't get me wrong the game isn't perfect. There are many situations where I 
 thought ... oh if they just made this that way instead of this way... for example... there isn't a 
 ridiculously high building to climb or a difficult person to kill. The difficulty is on a steady 
 slope up. The ending sequence is very fun and I don't see why they can't do more of that throughout 
 the rest of the game... I can't wait to see what ubisoft does with parts 2 and 3 with all the feedback 
 that they'll get from this game. Games 2 and 3 could be some of the best games we'll ever see. 
 I'm looking forward to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adragen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is may well be the first truly next-gen game for the xbox 360. Now I know what 
 you're thinking: "there's plenty of next-gen games for the 360 like Halo 3 and Oblivion." While 
 these games may be next gen as far as the graphics and the magnitude of the games go they don't 
 offer any cutting-edge mechanics. Assassin's Creed on the other hand does. The story follows a 
 man named Desmonde who is kidnapped and forced to relive his ancestor Altair's murderous timeline 
 through a machine called the animus which simulates Altair's memories through his descendant's 
 DNA. The true star of this game though is the environments. Altair's key trait is his agility and 
 the cityscapes allow him to stretch his ability using everything (and I mean EVERYTHING) as a stepstool, 
 a ladder, or a diving board. Any solid object that stands out, be it a crate, a brick, or a plank 
 can be contextually jumped on or grabbed, allowing you to advance to the next crate, brick, or 
 plank in a matter that is not only stylish but realistic and accurate, and by that I mean you can 
 actually see each of his hands and feet grab onto an actual object to move him ahead. Not only 
 is each city a gymnasium on steroids, but they are incredibly detailed and immaculate from the 
 threads of each rug to the sunlight that passes each rooftop (the lighting in this game... omg... the 
 lighting in this game!) . The most amazing thing is not the level of detail or the solid mechanics 
 but how well it all comes together. I would expect any game which this much depth to be full of 
 glitches and bugs but it is hard to remember an instance which either messes with the experience 
 of this game. Even the combat system is perfected, reading each button press and directional push 
 exactly how it was meant, leaving little frustration as you fend of enemies surrounding you but 
 still challenging you. Attacking basically requires only one button press but there is still so 
 much finesse in the different weapon styles, combos, and counters. Graphically and mechanically 
 this game is a masterpiece, but there is one area where the game could use a little work: the story. 
 Don't get me wrong, there is an amazing story behing the game, but it's how it spreads it out that 
 falters. Throughout the game you are put in different city boroughs and told to gather information 
 on a target then assassinate them. While each assassination is a little different and more complicated 
 than the last, it is the side missions to gather information that can get repetitive. You will 
 either have to pickpocket someone, interrogate someone, or just kill someone to get your info, 
 and each mission offers a limited amount of difficulty and variation. While the formula may get 
 stale, it will still leave you satisfied simply because how fun it is to get around the city. I 
 believe that in future versions of this game they will perfect the side missions, but for now Assassin's 
 Creed is literally a shining example of a next-gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has been a much hyped game, and in the end it's turned out pretty great. Assassin's 
 Creed has faults, and has high points, but you will notice the most is its originality.
  STORY - In the game you will play two characters, one is Altair, an assassin dealing with the biggest 
 bad guys of the crusades, and the other character, well, I won't spoil it for you, but it is pretty 
 interesting. Altair's story is that of getting himself back on top as the land's best assassin 
 after a couple screw ups, but along the way it becomes more a journey of self-discovery.
  GAMEPLAY - Assassin's Creed has quite a few main areas of gameplay, and their all done pretty well. 
 One is stealth combat, where you'll be sneaking along, and killing guards while staying low-key, 
 the other is simply traversing the streets without drawing attention to yourself by trying to blend 
 in or not doing anything to make you be noticed. The third is straight up combat where you bust 
 out your sword and take on a bunch of baddies at once. All of these areas are executed pretty well, 
 but after you learn all your combat abilities, straight up fighting becomes a little to easy. The 
 platforming in Assassin's Creed is masterful. You can do something called "free run" which basically 
 automatically finds platforms Altair can jump on, this makes escaping from guards extremely easy, 
 but it also looks pretty bada**, it's one of the first times that platforming has been fairly mindless 
 in a game, but it allows you to focus more on deciding your route away from pursuing guards, or 
 to travel so as not to get attention from sentries.
  Now, for the first couple hours, Assassin's Creed is pretty amazing, but the game sticks VERY closely 
 to a formula. First you venture along the countryside to the city where your target is, then you 
 scope out the city by climbing towers and looking around, then you either pickpocket, interrogate 
 (aka beat the s*** out of someone) , or eavesdrop. Unfortunately gathering evidence isn't fun at 
 all, though occasionally you'll come by cooler things like having to help out some fellow assassins 
 by killing their targets in exchange for some info. Then, finally, you assassinate your target, 
 and luckily these moments are pretty varied, from chases to having to cut through tons of opponents 
 to reach your target, these moments are almost always entertaining. But this formula grows tiresome 
 after a while.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics in Assassin's Creed are almost perfect, it has great character models (complete 
 with pretty realistic mouth movements) , awesome animations, varied environments that take you from 
 the slums to rich districts to the countryside, and good lighting. The one problem is that there 
 are some minor clipping issues, but that's pretty much it.
  SOUND - The sound quality is almost perfect too, there are awesome voice-overs (though, disappointingly, 
 Altair's voice-work isn't on the quality of the other voices, but it's still okay) , and there's 
 tons of sound clips playing as you wander the streets from merchants advertising their products, 
 to drunks mumbling to themselves, the sound quality makes the cities feel alive. 
  
  VALUE - Assassin's Creed should last you maybe 10-12 hours, and it's pretty fun while it lasts 
 but there's not much replay value.
  
  TILT - Assassin's Creed is breathtaking the first few hours, and the graphics and sound never cease 
 to be breathtaking. But, toward the end of the game, AC starts to get a little repetitive (though 
 it's fun no matter what.) There's also not very much re-playability. So all in all Assassin's Creed 
 is a worthy rental, but at that it's a rental that you really shouldn't miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starfenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a next gen game that is a must for any console. Wii owners are missing out. 
 Assassin's creed in mind blowing through its presentation till ending. but the ending is not a 
 satisfying one. when sucked in the game will not let you put down the controller, some actions 
 done in the game flows nicely, Some clunky action may aggravate the user but thats just a little 
 flaw that can be looked over. Assassin's creed is one of the most beautiful gaming environment. 
 People walking and talking is just so realistic, it makes you just sit and listen to the words. 
 Overall its a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are awesome, as good as gears easily in my opinion. Still a few glitches every now and 
 again (bottom right of the screen shows a little gray rectangle at times, but ive only seen that 
 about 3 times and ive nearly finished the game) , but that certainly isnt anything to take into 
 account.
  
  Sounds brill, nothing like that squelchy, cracking sound when you whack a guard with your sword. 
 Even the things people on the streets say are clear and dont seem out of place. 
  
  The gameplay overall is what disappointed me. Its fantastic for the first hour or three, but out 
 of all of the 9 assassinations, the way you go about them is identical; which can get a little 
 samey at times, but even though this is the case, there's still plently of moments that get your 
 heart racing. Its certainly not the most difficult game ever made, and variable difficulty would 
 have been nice. However there are still some fights and assassinations that will prove a challenge.
 
  
  The fight system is probably one of the best ive seen. Its sharp, effective, and fun to use. It 
 isnt button mashing like a lot of people expected, or at least thats not the most effective way 
 to fight, as with all games. It takes quite a while to get to grips with fighting efficiently, 
 but it looks great when you do.
  
  The free-running is great fun, more-so because it's so realistic.
  
  The story, in one aspect 
 only however, is another thing that got on my nerves. The popping in and out of past/present was 
 introduced too early in my opinion, and some straight forward cinematics would have felt much better. 
 However the plot so far seems interesting, and involves you from the begining, making you think 
 the same things as your character in the game. Hopefully it will stay just as interesting when 
 i finish the game (last few hours i think now) .
  
  Overall this game is definitly worth buying, and though the execution of the objectives needs to 
 be less repetetive, it is a fun experience to play, and certainly (in my opinion) one of the games 
 to have before xmas. Almost a 360 must-buy, but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is WOW!!! The game is amazing and its nothing like i very played before. I thought 
 this would be a prince of Persia riff off and it makes Prince of Persia look like crap!!! The story 
 deeply gets you in into the old time of 1134 BC and shows you the life of a true assassin. The 
 fighting concept of the game is phenomenal. The Environment is Beautiful and you can just take 
 30 mins and look around and see how everything looks. The people of the town react towards what 
 you do. If you help them out they'll help you escape from guards yet if you betray them they put 
 you out there and make it easier for the guards to find you. The game is a must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defpoet715
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I personally think this is another Prince of Persia without the prince, but with an assassin. Leaping, 
 slashing, stealing and taking down Kingdoms of a biblecle proportions. If you like the way this 
 sounds, well this is a game for you. I enjoyed playing this for some odd reason. It reminds me 
 of old 1940's back and white flick with swords, bows and daggers ( with out the black and white. 
 If you know what I mean.) . You alone have to fight knights and soldiers 1 on 10 or less, but once 
 you get the hang of it, it's quite fun. Jump from roof to roof though out the big ass free roam 
 kingdoms with guards and archers chasing you down to you either hide or man up fighting them off 
 toe to toe. The A. I. are the smartest I've ever seen in a long time. Very responsive to you. On 
 the down side of it is that there are very little blinding spots when it come down the terrain 
 while running or fighting the A. I.. But it's not a big issue.
  If you collect games like me, this one for your collection. B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nephthyswandere
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, there is alot that goes wrong with this game. Alot. Let's start with that....
 
  
  Enemy AI is lame. Watching 8 men stand around you waiting their turn to swing is anti-climatic 
 to say the least. They block like a pro though, so be prepared ot counter if you want to take guys 
 down.
  
  Enemy is in really good shape. I think I was really disappointed to see that the enemy guards could 
 jump almost as well as I can, following me anywhere. I don't know what I expected, but not for 
 them to run faster and jump just as high.
  
  Quests are repetitive. To the point that there are 4 citizen thank you dialogs for the 108 or so 
 save events, it's ridiculous.
  
  Story is not skippable. Yep, which means if you happen to die, guess what, you have to listen to 
 the entire 10 minute speech all over again. 
  
  Now what's right about the game....
  
  Graphics are amazing. The scenery is breathtaking, the movements are fluid and natural, it's a 
 beautiful game.
  
  The moves are equally as brutal as they are graceful. Jumping from building to building looks exactly 
 right, every time. Minimal clipping.
  
  Sneaking up behind enemy archers and ramming your blade into their neck never gets old.
  
  
 Story is engrossing, you actually want to watch the cutscenes (well the first time) . Not finished 
 yet, so that could definitely change...
  
  High tower points are amazing, I love climbing up those towers, actually getting that "Holy crap 
 I'm going to fall" feeling everytime I look down.
  
  The game is definitely worth a rental, a purchase only if oyu are one of those people that just 
 craves collection quests, the flag collection could keep you busy for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife2381
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything you thought it would be and more. It takes place in 1191 A. D, in the times 
 of the crusades. War is afoot amongst the countryside and you are smack dab in the middle of it. 
 If this makes any sense at all, you play as Desomnd, a supposed former assassin who plays as Altair, 
 a current assassin who makes a living out of stealthily slaying marked men.
  Desmond lives in our age, the modern times. He is able to access Altair's "genetic memory" seeing 
 as he is his ancestor. The result is shear poetry in motion in a weird "Matrix-esque" kind of world. 
 Things may start off kind of slow, and you may be wondering, "If i'm such an amazing assassin, 
 and nobody can even begin to hang with me on the battlefeild, how will this be fun?" Trust me, 
 it gets deeper...
  After owning dozens of gaurds repeatedly, I decided it was time to start with the story. Little 
 did I know the boss was none too happy with me blundering up the theft of "The Ark of the Covenant" 
 (Christian's should immediately recognize what I speak of) . After being publicly humiliated and 
 stripped of all special abilities and rank, you are pretty much thrown into the world, cold and 
 alone, left to redeem yourself and your assassin brotherhood. And I assure you, it is a magnificiantly 
 big and populated world.
  The three main cities of Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre are quite a sight to behold. They appear 
 to be an almost identical replica of the real cities. Before you know it, you will be jumping and 
 climbing from roof to roof, dodging arrows and darting up enormous walls, and you may find yourself 
 resting atop the sacred Temple of the Dome. The designers did a great job on putting recognizable 
 and familiar landmarks in appropriate places. You may see a gentle fog rolling in, or might see 
 the pollen from the flowers glinting all around you in the evening sun. It will most certainly 
 make you stop from time to time and appreciate the beauty of the landscape. A definate plus for 
 me in any game.
  As for the gameplay, it couldn't get much better. The animations are beautiful, every move you 
 make seems like it was just meant to be, and climbing around never gets old. You will probably 
 spend around 50 hours exploring the landscape, collecting the assassination flags, and scaling 
 gigantic architechtural materpeices to get to the top and get a better viewpoint on the world. 
 One of the best aspects, beleive it or not, is the combat. In most stealth games, your overall 
 goal is to not be spotted at all. While AC continues that everlasting goal, your only punishment 
 is being assaulted by 10 or so armed gaurds. This may not be the most desirable situation, but 
 taking on all these men at once is such a rush every time your blades clash, you may sometimes 
 deliberately walk in to a group of gaurds with your sword drawn looking for trouble. Altair gracefully 
 moves through the crowd with ease, slashing a helpless gaurd one second, then trippingand impaling 
 another the next. All in all, it is practically flawless. Even while galloping full speed on your 
 stallion, you can easily draw your sword and strike down the authority. Very fun.
  In conclusion, this game will keep you entertained a good long while. You'll catch yourself looking 
 around the room to see if anyone else saw that thing you just did on many occasions. If you haven't 
 played this game yet, and are in to medieval/ modern/ matrix/ robin hood/ prince of persia type 
 games, GO GET IT. You wont be dissappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will1L
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The slick game play, easy controls and beautiful environment are enough to 
 make this game GOTY. It's changed my outlook on the world; for example, today when i was at the 
 Y, I was looking out at the church across the street and I was planning the perfect way to climb 
 it. That is just how realistic and beautiful this game is, it can easily be confused with reality 
 (especially if you spend too much time on it, like i do) . The story, however, sets this game back 
 by quite a bit. The creators just tried to do too much with it. I would have been perfectly happy 
 if they would have stripped the story down to just being an assassin during the time of the crusades. 
 My only other real complaint is that the missions get a bit repetitive, but they are so fun to 
 begin with, that it doesn't really matter. The fact that some editors gave this game a score below 
 an 8, makes me question their editorial integrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXxxJMONEYxxXX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  You may say the game is repetitive, but that does not take away from this game in my opinion. The 
 game is smooth, fun to play. The story is great. I love how you can move around during the dialogs. 
 It keeps you from getting bored if the story does not interest you. In my opinion it is the best 
 game I have played in a while. The fighting is fun and smooth, running on the roof tops and climbing 
 look fantastic. This game has is it all in my opinion, action, story, puzzles, and collecting. 
 You can't go wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron263
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The game has amazing graphics and good game play its just really annoying that the gaurd come after 
 you to easy and its a very confusin story and confusin on some quests and it was very unexpective 
 when it turns futurestic whitch spoils the type of game. But if you like sneaky middle aged games 
 you will like this. but if you do decide to by it dont do the thing i did and trade in gears of 
 war for it.. . . . . . . kj k j k k jn l j l h g u ki h j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay, it has it's upsides and it's downsides. The good thing about the game is that 
 it is free roam. You can go where ever you want and do whatever you want. Also there are a lot 
 of things to do in a city and a lot of people to see. The bad thing about the game it is repeative. 
 This is probably one of the games that was WAY over hyped but does not leave up to the hype.
  I have played this game for maybe 4 hours and I am not impressed. 
  
  I would not suggest buying. 
 But if you wanna play the game go rent it. You will get more for your $.
  
  This game would of been so much better if everything was not repeated. Go interview, search, destroy. 
 That's how it goes. Also, the controls are a joke. Once you get the defensive stance you can kill 
 ANYTHING with a single swing. 
  
  Horribly hyped game.
  Go figure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  
  I was trying to decide which game to get, this or Mario Galaxy, and luckily i waited with Mario, 
 and picked Assassins Creed.
  
  
  Gameplay : Great original gameplay, you play as the Assassin Altair most of the game, but really 
 you are Desmond Miles a bartender taken in for research, it seems the memory of his ancestors are 
 stored in his DNA, and he undergoes this memory recovery program, where you get to play the Assassin 
 in the year 1191, and so the story goes, i won't spoil any more than that. Assassins creed utilizes 
 the ability to climb anywhere anytime you want, which makes you feel very free and not restricted 
 to a linear story. 
  
  The Story is not very captivating i mean it isn't bad but its a bit hard to hold on to, but with 
 such great gameplay its the least of its problem. 
  
  To progress in the Story you must assassinate high rank targets, to get to these targets you must 
 complete small tasks around the city to learn more about the target, then you can proceed when 
 they are done.
  
  Graphic: Beautiful Graphics, and with a HD its only more amazing, Huge cities with very high details 
 to small things and larger things, Character models look excellent, it doesn't feel like you are 
 looking at identical people all the time its very nicely varied. Also Altair looks awesome
  
  Sound: Superb music fits the environment perfectly. Great sound details everything, nothing 
 to complain about.
  
  Controls: Excellent controls makes it very easy to jump from building to building, and escaping. 
 Fighting while simplistic using only the X button to attack, you can block, throw and also reverse 
 enemy attacks so you kill them instead, i think its pretty good, even though its a little easy 
 at times.
  
  AI : AI is good, enemies follow you well from rooftops to streets, and they loose sight when you 
 are out of sight, which is realistic, haven't noticed any poor AI so far.
  
  Story : Like i mentioned before, the story isn't much to grab onto, its not bad but it could use 
 some polishing, its incredibly long however, up to 40 hours or more, depending on your play tactics.
 
  
  Bugs : noticed a few bugs here and there, nothing major, just some weird and funny moments.
  
 
  Achievements : Loads of time consuming achievements for the 360 version, from collecting a whole 
 range of flags, to killing X amount of guards, and so on, plenty to keep one busy.
  
  
  Conclusion: Loved this game, very addicting, running on rooftops jumping around never gets old 
 (so far) , neither does assassinating people!. Definitely a game you should get if you like Ninjas!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bin-hiding
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  this game overall is very good and fun to play but a few flaws in it keep it from being a great. 
 
  
  the graphics are awesome and only a few glitches can be seen on the animation during some in game 
 cut-scenes, the sound is great and pretty much everything can be understood through out the game 
 without much difficulty, again only in some cut-scenes does that become an issue due to the music 
 being to loud or other people talking around and not letting you hear the "important" conversation. 
 
  
  when it comes to the gameplay, even though it is very repetitive there are still enough fights 
 to start and buildings to climb to make it interesting. theres a lot of things that can be done, 
 whether it be looking for the hidden flags in the cities, pickpocket thieves for the heck of it, 
 bully the homeless (only when they bother you though... riiiiight) the combat system in the game 
 is interesting enough, is not a hack and slash game, you have to time your attacks correctly or 
 risk getting hit by a few blows and the fights become harder as you progress through out the game 
 as the guards get new abilities just as you which makes the battles a lot more dynamic and force 
 you to think before you just go out and start slashing your way through the city.
  
  the game also seems to freeze sometimes and you are forced to re-start it, this can happen anywhere, 
 you can be in the middle of a pursuit and trying to find a hiding place, jumping off a building 
 or about to start a cut-scene, it doesn't happen all the time, but it does happen often enough 
 that you will notice issue, the story is really good and that alone makes you want to complete 
 your next assignment and hear what your next target has to say about the plot and whats going on. 
 
  
  all in all this is a good game and a must play for next gen gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slysonic245
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is the best game ever!!!!! i love the game evrything is interactive and u can le 
 parkor/freerun!!. i love this game beacuse i love sly cooper games were u have to steel and kill 
 people i juat love those games and this is my dreamcome true!!!!. it was  
 worth the wait the best game ever is hear people!! I think that the graphics make the game very 
 gooood beacuse its like you can reach out and tuch things is soooo life like! i think that Assassins 
 creed is the best game ever and i hope you guys do to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick5152003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I beat it last night. Good game but just like a lot of other people have said, it gets severely 
 repetitive. Not just the gameplay though, the voice overs get repetitive too. You hear the civilians 
 say the the same crap over and over. You cycle through like 4 types of missions the entire game, 
 and the game will last you a good 12 hours. By the end of the game it really felt drawn out, like 
 a movie that lasts an hour and a half too long. I for one hated the "cut scenes" I hate how the 
 cameras always panned way back. I know you can change the angle by pressing a button, but in most 
 cases your character is in an awkward spot or something. Also, the guy who voices Altair is the 
 worst voice actor in the history of voice acting. But all negative things aside this game kept 
 me playing for 3 days straight. It's like Prince of Persia times 10. The climbing and running along 
 rooftop mechanics are wonderful. Even though the enemy a. i. kinda sucks, the combat really doesn't. 
 I love pulling off sick combo and counter kills. I dunno, all in all you should probably just rent 
 this game. But you will definitely get some enjoyment out of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrRoberto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Well, it's here. People around the world are playing this game, and either loving it or hating 
 it. The not-so-subtle negative reviews are already leaking out across boards and sites everywhere. 
 Then again, doesn't it seem that every next-gen game is knocked about during those first few days 
 of play? I went into this game with very high interest and lukewarm expectations. It seems that 
 every time I buy into the hype for a 360 game, I end up with a sour taste. When I approach games 
 from a neutral stance, I am often surprised. Let's just say that Viva Pinata still gets played 
 at my house, while Quake 4 was sold back within days of buying it. Enter "Assassin's Creed". 
 
  
  First and foremost, this is a jaw-droppingly beautiful game. Having watched the evolution of video 
 games first hand from Atari and Intellivision on up, this has to be the most gorgeous game I have 
 ever seen. Every texture is a work of art. Simple things, like the drape of cloth are amazing. 
 I am spending serious amounts of time looking at rugs in the marketplace instead of playing the 
 game. Climbing a viewpoint and surveying the countryside/city is a rush. I have never seen a game 
 convey architectural grandeur quite like AC. The wealth of opportunities to simply view the cities 
 is impressive. The animations are smooth and realistic, and the characters seem to have real weight 
 in this artificial world.
  
  Gameplay is a mixed-bag, but the frustrations of other reviewers seem to be too magnified. In comparison, 
 I never once have had the feeling of being really let down by the AI or the "boredom" of repeatedly 
 having to gather information for my targets. Yeah, it sure sucks that assuming the role of an assassin 
 would entail *gasp* tracking down information on your target. Overall, I appreciate having to eavesdrop 
 and interrogate people to gather this information. It may not be the best part of the game, but 
 it ups the immersion factor. Hopping around through the "memories" can be jarring and confusing 
 in terms of story, so it is nice to ground the player with a bit of slow-paced investigation about 
 the background of the various marks. As you can gather, I did not expect this title to be all action, 
 and because of that, I think that I may be enjoying the title more than some reviewers. The slow 
 pace of some segments actually balances well with the assassination/escape phase. I find myself 
 thinking back to the assassinations over and over to try different approaches. For the first time 
 in a long time, I am feeling real freedom in a virtual world.
  
  The freedom afforded in the level design is the real star of the show here. The fact that any and 
 all access routes are open to the player is the real revolution in gameplay. The controls play 
 a big part in immersing myself in this character's experiences. The inertia of running during an 
 escape is where this freedom is displayed at maximum. As the player, one responds by willing the 
 avatar in certain directions. I am not spending time trying to place well-timed jumps, nor am I 
 looking for the one route out of danger. This sense of freedom in both level design and control 
 makes most other games feel like one of those railed Disney rides. Feeling the intense rush of 
 being chased and scrambling to get vertical is one of those "aha" moments in gaming history. It 
 really does compare to the great moments in modern gaming, like the battle with Pyscho Mantis in 
 Metal Gear Solid. That moment was about transcending the limitations of immersion and technology. 
 Assassin's Creed is similar in scope and execution. Sitting at the edge of the couch, and mentally/physically 
 willing your avatar up a serviceable wall to the roofs after that first assassination, one feels 
 the desperation and stress of what that must have been like. This feeling; coupled with the strangely 
 intuitive controls, is as close as gaming has ever come to simulating true danger.
  
  This realism extends to the combat. I have seen other reviewers taking the combat to task as too 
 easy. There have also been criticisms of the AI in regard to guards not attacking en masse. Well, 
 would they have done that historically? Err, solo combat was pretty much the norm back then. Let 
 me put it another way, maybe one of the guards could have thrown in a sucker stab here and again, 
 but if you and your buddy were those guards, would you go in swinging wildly while he was engaged 
 in combat? Can you see the logic in not wanting to kill you friend accidentally? To be fair, when 
 faced with multiple enemies, the guards will attack as a group, switching off the aggressors in 
 a fight. Hmm, the AI makes a little more sense now, I can almost see why the devs made these choices. 
 This is not to say that there are no problems. The ladder AI is severely goofy, but not a deal 
 breaker. Ditto for the way that you can assassinate a guard (quietly) and his cohort right next 
 to him does not notice. Overall, the combat system seems very akin to real sword fighting. Don't 
 swing wildly, cover yourself, look for an opening after a parry, and block-block-block.
  
  After all this praise, let's face it, there are some negatives. First off, if I saw someone on 
 a galloping horse, my first thought would not be "hey, kill him!" Secondly, I am supposed to be 
 a highly trained assassin... who never learned how to swim. Most importantly, the whole future 
 story is not impressive. When I fired up the game, I expected to go through the typical training 
 humdrum. I had to go through that AND sit through this immersion breaking techno-babble-future 
 junk? Even if you buy into that idea that frames the story, they let it slip out way too early. 
 In essence, they just told their audience that Rosebud is the sled right after the opening shot 
 of the gates to Xanadu. Still, it's not a deal breaker.
  
  So, you've made it this far in a very long review. Assassin's Creed is a brilliant step in the 
 right direction. It has obvious flaws. It has amazing strengths. I would love to see more game 
 devs being ambitious - and delivering like this, instead of fiascos like Two Worlds. Ambition + 
 ineptitude + hype= garbage. Ambition + talent + risk-taking + hype = Assassin's Creed. Overall, 
 it is such a beautiful and compelling experience, that one has to at least see to believe it. It 
 is a great first-step into the next chapter of gaming. Now, I would love to see what would happen 
 if AC and Oblivion mated...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oafmwl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  A great idea put together here with the game play and the storyline just i think alot of us were 
 expecting more
  
  Single Player: The game really is a good game but you find out your doing the same thing after 
 the 3rd guy you need to kill. You go around investigating on where your next target is and when 
 best time to do it. You can also go around and try to find all the high points which are points 
 where you need to climb to and then scan the area around that point. Then there citizens that you 
 can save that are being harassed by guards but you always save a girl or some old priest. And they 
 always say the same thing. After you get the information you need then you can go assassinate your 
 target. You listen to a little speech your target has to say and then after he's done talking you 
 can try to assassinate him. Its not that easy it may seem the guards will see you so you can't 
 go for the assassination then you pull out your sword and have fight all of them or just go for 
 the guy you need to kill. Let me talk about the fighting its just plan boring you just stand there 
 and the guard no matter the numbers will stand there with there swords out will make a circle and 
 will just move around. One by one guard will try to hit you and you just block there attack then 
 counter there attacks so it's an easy kill and you do that over and over for every fight. So then 
 you kill your target you go tell it to your master and guess what you get to go do the same thing 
 all over again but with a new target. You can also look for flags that are placed every where but 
 have fun with that because there a lot. I haven't beat the game yet but I have killed 6th guys 
 and it looks like your just going to be doing the same thing.
  
  Multiplayer: There is no online play for this game.
  
  Controls: The controls are easy to get 
 use to. There is a tutorial that gives you the basics. But when you're climbing building running 
 from the guards you may get frustrated that you can't grab onto the next ledge the way you're on 
 the wall. Other then that the controls are easy to under stand and work well. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics for the game is really good. They really did put some time into the graphics 
 and the environment. Maybe to much time and should of worked on the fighting a little more.
  
  Sounds: You got sounds all over the city like a normal city always some one talking never gets 
 quiet when you on the street. But like I said people start to say the same things over and over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisher1010
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is very addictive, I cannot stop playing it. Please don't mind the people whom give it 
 bad reviews (8 or lower) because they obviously don't understand a well made game. This game is 
 absolutely brilliant. Even the movement of your character is flawless. While climbing your character 
 interacts in the environment with human like reflexes and movements, nothing fake looking, though 
 I will say he must be super strong to be able to pull himself up on the ledge while hanging, because 
 it is a lot harder than it looks. The action is plentiful in this game, and what is even more fun 
 is most of time you can decide whether you want to fight or not. The soundtrack is gorgeous and 
 very engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganman17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Whether your a fan of the infamous hitman series, or enjoy acrobatic assassinations and intense 
 sword fights, Assassin's Creed is the game for you. It's a combination of swift killing and intense 
 evasive running, jumping and climbing. A combination that is absolutely genious. I simply can't 
 get enough. I rented the game last week. After having it for 2 days i returned it to Blockbuster 
 and drove straight to Best Buy to scoop it up. The gameplay is flawless and the stunning visuals 
 will ensure that your impressed every time you turn on your Xbox 360. Take my word for it when 
 I say "Go buy it now!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  An amazing game by Ubi Soft. Almost everything about this game is great. The game play is top notch 
 and the graphics are outstanding. You take the role of Altair an highly skilled assassin and you 
 simply have to kill 9 different leaders of 3 different cities; Acre, Jerusalem and Damascus. You'll 
 have to plan your moves carefully and you can accomplish your missions in any way you can. It can 
 be said that he game play is mixture of Hitman and Prince of Persia series. You climb over rooftops, 
 do various acrobatics and kill your enemies silently. The graphics are amazing and one of the best 
 seen on the Xbox 360, the shadows, the lightening effects and the city environments are absolutely 
 amazing. The sound is perfect and the score is very atmospheric composed finely by Jesper Kyd. 
 You must give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3LL_Hunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  do you love playing ninja games?
  do you love to play realistic games?
  do you love to take on army's of people at a time?
  
  - if you answered yes to any of the above 
 you will love assassins creed
  
  assassins creed has very few flaws to me (mostly because of my pet peeves) for instance, you have 
 to play the tutorial, theres a scene that shows a glass hud coming over your face from left to 
 right, then it withdraws from right to left. simple things like that
  
  anywho... i gladly handed over 60 bucks for this game, i am loving it. it gives me such a thrill 
 to run across roof tops being chased by guards, then jumping down and killing a unsuspecting guard 
 underneath me with a hidden blade.
  that has got to be my favorite weapon, the hidden blade.
  
  if your thinking of not buying 
 this game until the price drops because of all the controversial ratings, DONT, you will be disappointed 
 if you wait. everyone will have played it by then and talking about it, leaving you out of the 
 conversation. but if you live in a rural area in Oregon then thats a different story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is easily one of the most anticipated games for the 360. It held captive, people's 
 minds waiting for this game to go gold. Now, behold, one of the best games available for the 360. 
 UbiSoft gets a large standing ovation for this game, not only is it extremely enjoyable to play 
 but it also immerses the player in the game. It's good to know that UbiSoft is determined to make 
 good games and not to put them out before they are ready like some developers. 
  Assassin's Creed's graphics are, quiet frankly, amazing. The detail in the main characters is matched 
 only by Gears of War. The cloth animation is beautiful, the climbing up buildings is unmatched 
 (granted there's only been 2-3 other then AC that's had climbing in it) , the combat is unrivaled. 
 In AC when you climb up buildings you actually see the character's hands gripping the railings, 
 stones, windows in order to pull himself up. Though the details seems to drag down just a tad when 
 you start going outside of the main characters. Besides Altair (the Assassin) , his Teacher and 
 all of your marks (assassination targets) the characters' detail seem to drag. Granted the only 
 people left after the main characters are the civilians and guards and to the fact that there's 
 thousands of these civilians in any given city its easy to dismiss and understandable. Now remember 
 i said that the details drag a bit... not a whole lot. 
  The sound and lip-syncing in the game is actually very good. When you're out in the cities the 
 sound is amazing you'll hear the crowd noise you'll hear individuals speaking to each other, merchants 
 trying to sell their goods, guards picking on the innocent. The cities immerse you in a world that 
 you are welcome to enter as Altair. Though the lip-syncing in the cutscenes needed a little bit 
 of work because you will start to see some words don't quiet match up with the lips moving but 
 a lot of the times you won't be looking at the lips so its easy to ignore. 
  The gameplay in Assassin's Creed is actually a lot easier then you would imagine. With all the 
 building climbing, guard killing, assassination attacks and knife throwing a lot of people were 
 skeptical on how the controls would be. Well, the controls are quiet easy. The game starts out 
 stripping Altair of his Assassin Rank (he's essentially an ultimate assassin) . Therefore giving 
 you different abilities after each rank so it allows you to get to know certain moves before it 
 gives you new ones. The other nice aspect of the gameplay is that with almost all of the new abilities 
 you are taken to the courtyard to practice them. So to answer the question people have on whether 
 or not the controls are confusing, they are not by any means. 
  In all Assassin's Creed is by far one of the best game out for the 360 and it should be played 
 by anybody. The game's combat and cinematic efforts are unmatched by any other game out there. 
 This game deffinatly will be in the top 3 of anybody's rankings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdprogrammer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  It is a very open game where you can pretty much do what you want when you want much in the way 
 Skate is played. The graphics are just amazing and the freedom you have to do what you want really 
 makes this game fun. This game is probably more fun to play if you adventure out and do all the 
 side quests and explore the cities and country side. If you just take the linear path to killing 
 the 9 dudes and getting to the end your experience probably won't be as full. The historical references 
 to the game make it fun as well. All 3 major cities are real cities in the holy land. The 9 dudes 
 are real and it just makes the game all that more interesting knowing there is a historical reference 
 to what you are playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  The Good: Epic world and cities to explore, major plot twist at the begining of the game, fighting 
 system is fluent and very well done, stunning graphics, counter attacks and combat moves are brutal 
 and oh so satisfying, tons and tons to do in each city, play the way you want to play.
  
  The Bad: Altair's voice is pretty generic and uninspired, graphical pops here and there, can get 
 repetitive after a while, very easy to get lost in later missions.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Playstation 3 owners remember the agony when Ubisoft announced that the once PS3 exclusive game 
 Assassin's Creed would be coming to the Xbox 360. Most gamers remember the awesome trailers and 
 gameplay footage that was revealed over the years for this awesome looking next gen action game. 
 Now, it's finally out and it's a game that you will remember for a long time to come. 
  
  Now, Ubisoft kept very quiet about the storyline of Assassin's Creed, and for good reason. The 
 game has a huge plot twist in the first couple minutes of the game, so be prepared for anything. 
 Without giving away the twist, I'll give you the gist of the story.
  
  You play as Altair, a skilled assassin who works during the 3rd crusade. Your job is to assassinate 
 targets given to you by the assassin's guild, which you belong to, without asking questions. You 
 have several weapons at your disposal, which you loose near the begining due to a wreckless act 
 that costs the guild several members. You earn you weapons and skill moves back by completing missions. 
 
  
  Each mission requires you to gather information on your target, where to assassinate your target 
 and what surrounds your target area. You do this by pickpocketing, overhearing and scouting out 
 the area. You have a series of different mini missions you must complete before you attempt to 
 assassinate your target. These vary from pickpocketing a stranger to saving citizens by killing 
 a group of guards. There are also tons of things to find hidden all over each city such as scouting 
 posts and flags, which are scattered all over the city. These give you a reason to return to cities 
 you've already been to in order to find everything in the game. It's also fun just to climb up 
 tall buildings, assassinate guards while they patrol and just bum around the city, that's how huge 
 and well detailed these cites are.
  
  Once you gather enough info, it's time to go for the kill. The assassination levels are always 
 exciting. Sometimes, your target has no clue you are around and is a quick and easy kill with your 
 hidden blade. Others know you are there and try to flee. These are by far the most exciting segments 
 of the game and just keep getting better and more exciting.
  
  The combat system is extremely well done. When fighting a group of guards, you can do everything 
 from preform brutal counter attacks, to just simply hacking your way through them, or you can sneak 
 up behind them when they aren't looking and assassinate them, without having to worry about open 
 combat. You can also preform throw moves and other special combat techniques that you unlock as 
 you progress in the game.
  
  Stealth plays a major role in the world of Assassin's Creed. There is a stealth meter on your hud 
 that tells you when you have been seen, or if people are watching you. When fleeing from an assassination, 
 you need to jump through vender booths, climb up buildings to loose the guards, then hide in one 
 of the various hiding places scattered throughout the city in order to be able to walk around freely. 
 You are also able to blend in with a group of scholars in order to pass guard outposts unnotised. 
 This adds further depth to an already incredably deep game. 
  
  The graphics for Assassin's Creed are simply awesome. It really looks like a true next gen game 
 as far as the character animation, combat, the environments are extremely detailed and everything 
 seems to looks awesome. I did experience frequent graphical pops, where random civilians and buildings 
 appear out of thin air, but still, it's a very impressive game graphically.
  
  The sound effects, music and voice acting is also outstanding. The musical score is flowing and 
 fits the game's setting and style very well. The sound effects are perfect and the voice acting 
 is excellent with one major exception: Altair himself. His voice is a pretty generic male voice 
 that seems almost completely uninspired. If only a better voice actor was selected for Altair, 
 then it would be hard not to say that the voice acting is some of the best of the year.
  
  I did have a few minor gripes, which don't cause the game to get a lower score, but are annoyances 
 all the same. First, the gameplay does get repetitive after a while, but that's not exactly unexpected 
 due to the style of the gameplay. Second, it is often very easy to get lost in one of the game's 
 massive cities. Finding your objectives can become extremely hard to do after a while. That's about 
 it besides the graphical pops and lame voice acting for Altair. 
  
  The fact is, this is a must have game this year for 360 and PS3 owners. It may be a single player 
 only game, but it is one that you will not forget anytime soon. The action is outstanding, the 
 graphics are beautiful and the gameplay is simply a blast. If it wasn't for all of the stiff competition 
 this year, Assassin's Creed would be a clearcut winner for game of the year. Instead, this game 
 should win best action game at least, because of how much fun this really is. I would definately 
 recomend Assassin's Creed to all action game fans. It's a must play on all accounts.
  
  Gameplay: Stealth, brutal sword combat and platforming are combined with a great setting in this 
 outstanding action game.
  
  Graphics: These ancient cities are depicted like they have never been before in a game.
  
  
 Sound: Outstanding music and sound, but the voice acting for the main character could have been 
 better.
  
  Value: This is a game that you can beat in under 20 hours if you rush, but will take you around 
 90 to complete 100%. That's worth paying $60 or even $70 for the limited edition in my book.
  
  Final Thoughts: Within the shadows, your death awaits.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russell55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was hard to put down from the get go, the only thing that I was a little disappointed 
 with was the story, it was kind of odd, i thought you were just playing as Altair, and not in some 
 Future-esque world. Controls took about 10 minutes to get used to, the guard fights are so much 
 fun, especially when it is 5+ vs you, and you manage to kill them all with finesse and ease. The 
 Climbing/Scaling Walls aspect was very easy to do, the fact that it is mostly automatic helped, 
 for i can't see how you could do all the jumping and climbing manually. Game looks beautiful graphically, 
 and is an enjoyment from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Let me simplify this for you:
  The Good:
  1. Sword Play - Never had I played a game where the sword play seemed so real. You don't control 
 the stroke, but the intuitive action. You want to parry and counter attack, you press the right 
 buttons at the right time and you character would do a natural parry and and counter based on where 
 your character is countering from and how your opponent has attacked you. You can literally fight 
 off numerous guards who surround you much like you see in the movies. Cutting through one and sliding 
 effortlessly into countering the next guards movements. It doesn't start out this way, but the 
 further you get in the game, the more fun sword fighting gets (because you acquire new moves) .
 
  2. The Controls - They feel really natural and smooth. You can easily transition from one weapon 
 to the next, and moves aren't comprised of complicated button combinations. 
  3. Graphics - while not the best I've seen, or that I soon expect to see, they are definitely next 
 generation. So far I'd say "Gears of War" and "Mass Effect" seem to be the only two games with 
 better graphics to date. 
  4. Couter-Attacks are freakin sweet. Especially if they follow with a killing blow. Assassination's 
 with the dagger are almost just as sweet, especially the high profile flying ones.
  The Bad:
  1. Never Ending Guards - If you need to do anything (i. e. pickpocketing, assassinations) 
 and you alert the guards and fight them, you could find yourself fighting a whole lot in that same 
 general area. Because after you clear the area, guards will come to inspect the bodies and get 
 put immediately into red alert. This makes it hard to do mission's like pickpocketing or timed 
 assassinations, because you can't come out of "blend" when an alerted guard is near without failing 
 the mission. 
  2. There are very few types of missions, while they aren't all the same, they do seem repetitive. 
 Pickpocketing missions can be completed within seconds; Timed Assassination last anywhere between 
 3-5 minutes; Grab-the-Flag race missions are 3 minutes long; Interrogation missions take a minute 
 or two, if that; Eavesdropping mission's take absolutely no time at all, they also are no challenge 
 at all. You get get six of these missions during each assassination. They vary, usually 2 timed 
 assassination or 1 timed assassination and 1 grab-the-flag timed race (given by informers) , 2 pickpocketing 
 missions, always 1 interrogation, and sometimes 2 eavesdroppings. You spend most of your time in 
 this game climbing bird towers to see where the action is, and saving citizens/fighting off the 
 guards. That's all mostly optional, but if you dare to due the minimum necessary, you could beat 
 this game within 10 hours. You do all the little things, it will take you anywhere between 30-50 
 hours. Especially if you decide to go flag hunting.
  
  This game seemed to focus more on giving us a new type of experience, rather than content. While 
 the content was lacking, the innovation was something to marvel at. This game offers such a unique 
 experience, and it leaves you wanting more, that's it's biggest flaw. Some people might not like 
 the direction of the plot or storyline; I think it was good, just not what I expected. I believe 
 the story was done as such to open the game up to a sequel. While this game is not perfect, it's 
 definitely a masterpiece. 
  
  This game does lack replay value, because if you manage to get 100% completion out of the game, 
 there is nothing new for you to do. There's no multi-player, and the plot is completely linear. 
 There is one path and one ending. 
  
  If you are a collector of great games, this is a must buy. If you buy games that you can enjoy 
 for months, than maybe you should only rent this game. Especially, if you don't like to replay 
 games or go for 100% completion. If anything, this is a game you must experience to appreciate. 
 It may not be what you expect, but it's a huge step in the right direction for games of this nature. 
 Definitely ground-breaking.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Replay Value: 3/10
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10
  Overall: 7.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodootree
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  OK - I'm not done playing yet... But that's mostly because I get frustrated and loose my enthrallment 
 when I get pulled back out into the "real" world of the strange and euphoria-bashing laboratory. 
 Why can't I just be an assassin in in 10-whatever? I get the sense that there's some sinister plot 
 in this futuristic rat lab, but I fail to see the point... Maybe it'll come together more later 
 on, but I wanted to play an assassin during the crusades - not some ass-head exploring genetic 
 memories!
  
  Add to that the apparent lack of anything that makes the object of the memories seem like an assassin 
 at all - and I'm just sort of put off that I looked forward to this game for a year... Aren't assassins 
 masters of stealth, deception... something?
  
  Also - one of the things I was looking forward to in this game was what the developers hinted to 
 be a fairly fragile main character. What I mean by this is that, somewhere in a developer's talk 
 about the game it was stated that the main character wasn't going to be able to take all kinds 
 of damage and that you would have to be pretty spot-on with your sword work to survive a battle 
 (and I assumed you would be better served by avoiding battle alltogether) ... What happened to that? 
 This game is WAY to easy.
  
  Again - I'm not done with it yet, so take this review with a grain of salt. I'll be back to revise 
 this when I get further along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguatacaluseo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  First Crysis, now THIS... WOW... the gameplay it's just plain fun, the gfx are flawless and is 
 pretty easy to control. This game deserves a 10 for innovating where is almost impossible to do. 
 The story is... well is not the best there is, but who cares, Sincerely the game is flawless.
 
  
  PS: I own a PS3 and that was a mayor letdown, because the game plays best on a 360!!!
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic product. This is how a good Batman or ninja game should be something like. 
 There is a bit of repetitiveness about this game, but it's a good type of repetitiveness about 
 it. The fact that there are no "high -tech" weapons, no vehicles, and that it's set in 1191, makes 
 this game a bit different from other action games. 
  The ability that this game has to immerse you into the main character's perspective, is magnificent, 
 while it sheds some light on society in history, and shows more of an understanding and respect 
 to different ethnicities. The cities give off a real effect, and make you feel as if you know how 
 it was to live in those times. Also, the effect of blending through the crowd, collection of intel 
 and downright stalking your prey, is an awesome experience that doesn't seem to get old. The fighting 
 system is done very well, especially for a game that's not really centered on fighting. It's done 
 a bit realistically, being that sword fights aren't really fast paced, but can be dangerous if 
 you're not cautious. The difficulty of the game is pretty evened out, if you pay attention to what 
 you're doing. Fortunately, the AI isn't any smarter, and you can make kills pretty easy, if you 
 know what you're doing. If it were harder to make kills and if the AI was "smarter", this game 
 would've been insane. This is a great addition to anyones library.
  It would've been great if there were more "Stealth" techiques, and a day/night sequence at least. 
 I do say that Manhunt and Hitman: Blood Money had more of a stealth feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dioxide75
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  This game not only looks great but plays great too. Very fluid and on point. I was amazed by the 
 physics in it. Coming from a full run to a walk is great in that it makes you slow down instead 
 of just a dead stop. The controls a very easy to understand and learn. My one complaint is that 
 you can't swim what's up with that? It would have gotten a 9.5 if it hadn't been for that. I'm 
 really enjoying the game play. This is the type of game for other developers to draw from. If there 
 is a sequel I can see a lot more to be done. Great Job!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punx19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  needs more of the sci-fi aspect of it and counter/combo attacks needs more of them. and I think 
 they needed to add more was to stealth kill your targets like when your perched on an object. and 
 the ability to change clothing. but all in all it's one of the best action/adventure yet and i 
 hope the second one is just as good and wild. the attacks are all well generated and the collision 
 detection is amazing the Ai of the enemies are crazy. I still wish there was more of the Sci-fi 
 ascpect of it I wanted to start Assasinating people in the lab it would have been spectacular 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklion37337
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Fun game that gives the perfect blend of stealth and combat. Graphics are amazing. Game play is 
 super awesome. It's such an awesome game that if you thing you might like it then you probably 
 will end up finding yourself just blown away. It's great!.
  Nothing is true, Everything is permitted.
  
  The game really makes you feel like you're an 
 Assassin back in the Third Crusade. The body count that you rack up is amazing. You don't have 
 to be a really bad guy, but you can be. You could spend your time saving every citizen getting 
 harassed by thugs in every town. Or you could decide to kill every guard you see, just because 
 you can. It's very open ended with many optional missions at each level and you can do them in 
 whatever order using whatever methods you want. Super great game!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  The details they put into this game are amazing, everything looks amazing and its so smooth considering 
 what they took on, having full access to every building top in the game and a smooth clever way 
 of getting there is quite a challenge. specially when you take the size of the cities and how well 
 it runs without load times. 
  
  This game was made brilliantly as far as looks and detail. But game play wise it is very fun when 
 you start. everything is interesting and the high from climbing and running and killing random 
 guards gives you quite the initial addiction to the game play. But after you have done it for a 
 few hours it honestly losses some of its energy because its alot of the same over and over and 
 over again. Even to much of a really good thing gets boring after a few hours. But it is short, 
 enough so i wouldn't say its repetition is annoying at all or anything like that. It just like 
 i said, losses some of its energy. 
  
  The plot is really unique and i was happy to see it unroll. Sound was beautiful and combat was 
 way fun once you get the hang of it. In general this game felt to me like one of the most professionally 
 done realistic games ive played for a long time. 
  
  Im excited for the next one to come out~
  
  O-yes. A point i had before i leave is that you 
 could maybe beat it in about 5-10 hours of play if your good at the game. Its also addicting enough 
 that if your any sort of a hard core gamer it will keep you coming back, So sadly this title might 
 be best to rent because i don't see its replay value being to huge necessarily. But it is definitely 
 replayable. 
  
  INK~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalWatch
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Before I get to the guts of the review, let's sit back for a second and think about our initial 
 impressions and expectations of a categorized "Open World" game entitled Assassin's Creed.
  
  Let's begin by taking the word Assassin. When you hear that word what comes to mind? For me, 
 things like: Stealth, sneaky, lockpicking, breaking into someone's house in the dead of night and 
 slitting their throat, killing off people in covert ways to avoid detection and fulfill a contract.
 
  
  Now let's take the term Open World. In an open world I would want to be able to go wherever I want 
 without unlocking anything, be able to interact with everyone, be able to go into houses, legally 
 or otherwise, and just generally have a connection to the people and environment beyond the quest 
 chain.
  
  When you combine Open World and Assassin into a henceforth named game such as Assassin's Creed, 
 you would expect most if not all of the things listed above. What we got, however, was nothing 
 of the sort.
  
  - - - 
  
  My breakdown of all my disappointments will follow in due suite but I will start off with my short 
 list of positive aspects of the game. Firstly, like everyone else has said, the game is breathtakingly 
 beautiful. The animations of your character and the other people in the game is nothing short of 
 lifelike, but I think the movement of the horses trumps all else. It just makes you take a second 
 and think, "Wow . . ." before you remember what tower you're supposed to be climbing.
  
  The sound is also very good in the game, from the soaring eagle squawks to the din and raucous 
 intermingled in all the cities-even the accents of the people. The one flaw is definitely your 
 character's voice. I don't know if they made you without an accent to correlate to the other storyline 
 or what, but the mood is always ruined when you have to hear yourself speak.
  
  I would also classify the entire game up past the first "Poor District" assassination to be a 9.0, 
 but here is why it ranked so low in my book.
  
  - - -
  
  Firstly, third-person games, especially combat-oriented ones, are known to have control issues 
 and Assassin's Creed is no exception. Aside from some camera angles that get stuck and make it 
 impossible to see what's going on, the game just feels jittery. If you engage someone in a fight 
 on a rooftop oftentimes you end up jumping backward off the building or latching onto an overhang 
 and getting hacked to bits while you're immobile. The targeting system for "Fight mode" is also 
 a little annoying . . . sometimes it's difficult to lock onto the assassination target and instead 
 you get a guard.
  
  Next, I have gripes with the whole game premise packaged under an "Assassin's" title. There is 
 no night/day cycle . . . meaning everything you do is in broad daylight. And how is it being a 
 sneaky-assassin-type person when the guards know you're coming for them and the target before you 
 even draw your sword? Where's the deception, the cunning? Why can't we poison someone's drink or 
 creep into an open window and take a sleeping victim? It isn't "assassination" when you have to 
 run up to a guy on a busy street, deal with about 5 guards and actually fight the guy you're supposed 
 to kill.
  
  For the whole "Open World" aspect all I can say is . . . meh! Parts of the cities are locked until 
 later levels for starters. Then there is this whole huge area in between cities where... wow, some 
 flags are hidden. Big whoop. The only people you can interact with are the ones from quests. You 
 can only pickpocket select targets, speak to select people. And no, knocking off pottery from a 
 woman's head and her programmed response of "Watch where you're going!" is not interaction.
  
  Still on the topic of "Open World" is my most disappointing factor about the game. I've read 
 that people like to sit down on a bench and just watch the people passing by and they feel immersed 
 in the game's world. I, for one, don't. You are completely removed from the game by lack of interaction 
 and also, for lack of a better word, purpose. You have no money or currency, therefore no reason 
 to want to sneak into people's houses and steal things or pickpocket rich merchants on the streets. 
 They programmed the game to be authentic with tons of street vendors but you can't buy anything. 
 You are basically in this very pretty virtual world (and I'm talking world because it is huge) 
 with nothing to do but the preordained quests. Or you could search for a very long time to collect 
 some inane flags.
  
  Just like Just Cause, the developers of the game focused on making the game look so stunning that 
 you feel you should love it and all the hype going along with it but in the end the gameplay barely 
 exists. It's rinse and repeat down to the core. The same quests over and over-save the citizens, 
 listen in on a conversation, pickpocket information from someone, kill that guy. After the first 
 "Poor District" mission you do, you've done every quest-type in the game. It's so sad that so many 
 people worked on this for so long and turned out a very mediocre but good-looking game.
  
  All in all, if you took Thief and Oblivion and put the gameplay from those into this world you 
 would probably have one of the best games of all time; but, in the end, pretty graphics don't make 
 me want to sit there and play this game. 
  
  Final score  6.5
  
  C. Leschinsky
  (DigitalWatch)
  
  /hopes to get her money back from Gamestop
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snozzeltoff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  I got this on release, with the figure, for anyone interested the figure is pretty awesome, miles 
 better than the BioShock figure. Its resin and just better quality.
  Anyway, after a solid weekend of playing pretty much nothing but this game I felt I could give 
 a solid enough review of the game. 
  
  The twist of the game is revealed pretty much instantly, I won't say anything else on the matter 
 for those who don't know it already. Your main skills as the master assassin have to be re-gained 
 due to reasons that will be explained in the story, this really does slow don't the game a lot 
 at the start. There is a brief tutorial and training section but the directions don't appear on 
 screen long enough for you to take it all in properly, leaving you a bit confused and not sure 
 how to use the combat system. 
  After the first assassination the game really starts to get good, you're shown how to use the counter-attack, 
 I knew this was how the combat system was meant to be used but until this point it was unclear 
 as to how it was implemented. You'll soon find that guards are not a problem, wait for them to 
 attack you, counter there move and take them out in one go, that's the best and most efficient 
 way to work. 
  Your killing weapons range from the long sword, short blade, throwing knives, your fists and the 
 best of all, the hidden blade. The short blade and throwing knives will be gifted back to you as 
 you progress through the game. 
  The hidden blade is a 12" or so blade hidden along the length of your inner left forearm; this 
 is deadly and is mainly used for silent assassinations when the target is un-aware. The long sword 
 is best for dealing out large amounts of damage with a group of enemies; the short blade is used 
 with the throwing knives. At a distance, lock onto a target and throw knives to kill in one and 
 when enemies are close the short blade comes out and becomes a savage little weapon. Due to its 
 size it is used quickly and deadly.
  There are plenty of animations for the combat so nothing feels too fake and repetitive, the gore 
 and sleek style in which all the killing blows are dealt are extremely satisfying. 
  
  The free running, this was one of the main components of the game the developers have worked long 
 and hard on. As free running goes you simply climb anything, jump anything and generally move about 
 a city environment with optimal speed and elegance. This is exactly what comes across in assassin's 
 creed, climb anything, if there's a windows or some foot/hand hold then you can climb it. To make 
 it flow is all about the timing, this doesn't take too long to get the hang of though. 
  
  One other thing I'd like to point out is how well the horses look, their animation in particular, 
 it looks and acts and feels like a real horse. Once you get off it too it follows you about like 
 a little pet, until you go in a city or die etc. 
  
  Overall this game is so different and looks so good that you have to play it, if it's not exactly 
 your type of game you still need to try it out, rent or something but I most certainly recommend 
 buying it. It may start a little slow but get past the first assassination and you really begin 
 to understand the game more and from then on the further you get it keeps improving. The investigation 
 missions never change and can get a little boring but it all makes use of the stuff that makes 
 this game great so it doesn't matter. 
  Buy this game!
  
  Snozzeltoff ^_^ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranteal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is set in the days of the crusade. In short, you are a assassin who is stripped 
 of rank who is given a chance to redeem himself. You are given missions in which you must kill 
 targeted crusaders and others. Also, there is a side story, which is actually the main story, but 
 most of the gameplay is set during the crusades. 
  Gameplay is great, as the controls are very responsive and once you get them down, very fun to 
 use. The graphics are top notch and are easily some of the best on the 360. What is also pretty 
 cool is the authenticity of the time period. All the uniforms are spot on and the different languages 
 are all there. The only real glitch is the AI on some of the soilders. The Blend button makes the 
 game a little too easy, but you will probably not notice it too much.
  Anyone who wants to play a game that is not a FPS or a RPG, and is not about aliens, this is a 
 must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRHParkerJones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Twenty hours into Creed and i can't put it down... immersive, creative and stunning are three words 
 that come to mind when asked to describe my experience so far.
  
  you will not be disappointed - sure you can rent it and beat it (main story) but to complete the 
 side quests as well as grab all 1000 points - you'll have to spend some serious time on this one!
 
  
  graphics are gorgeous - sound is immersive - game play gets addictive real fast - so be ready to 
 climb every building you come to in search of the highest point on the map... why - 'cause you 
 can of course! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Starting point. The graphics are the best looking graphics that I"ve seen on any game to date. 
 It's just amazing looking at all the detail. I can't explain why this game is so fun, but it is. 
 Like I can't explain why I keep playng Katamari but I do. Most worlds in games are boring after 
 a while just roaming around in, but this game is really exciting roaming around cause you have 
 to sneak almost every where. It seems pretty simple the mission that you under take, but seems 
 extremely fun to be an assassin in 1192. The game is pretty simple in the fact that you seems to 
 just collect flags, kill templars and have targets to kill. Maybe I'm over simplifying the game, 
 but is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an incredible game in both size, immersiveness, and art direction. Where it 
 lacks really, is in the imagination in the investigation part of your assassinations as well as 
 the combat system. Of course, I'll go over that in "Gameplay" so read on if you wish to learn more. 
 Let me first cover the Pros and Cons.
  
  Pros
  -Reminiscient of Prince of Persia in both mechanics and feel.
  -All 3 cities are large, as well 
 as the main Kingdom connecting it all.
  -Diverse population, interesting assassination victims.
  -A good deal of length, maybe 13-15 
 hours if you do everything except collecting flags.
  -Animations/Sound/Music is top-notch.
  -Interesting "memory glitch" system that lets you change the camera during in-game cut-scenes.
 
  
  Cons
  -Battle system is shallow, you realize, after a few hours.
  -Investigating gets tiresome after the 5th or 6th guy.
  -The dialogue of the population, unlike 
 the citizens themselves, isn't that diverse. You'll hear the same 2 lines over and over.
  -No replayability for the most part, except getting flags that don't affect your game in anyway 
 except for Achievements.
  
  Now that I've gone over the basics, let me tell you about my grading system. I'll cover Gameplay, 
 Sound, Graphics, and Value. I'll also throw in a final scoop section of my views and possible regrets 
 attaining to the game. Enjoy, and hopefully approve this review since I've spent many hours with 
 the game before reviewing it (check my Achievements if you so wish) .
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Assassin's Creed (henceforth known as AC) is pretty extraordinary. Obviously, 
 if you have heard, it uses a puppeteering-esque control scheme where Y controls the head, B controls 
 an empty hand, X controls your weapon, and A controls your feet (just to overview) . It's pretty 
 great since everything works smoothly with the D-Pad selecting weapons of choice. You can hold 
 RT + A and free-run, so basically you'll jump automatically as you move forward and it works very 
 well and provides you with enough interactivity that it doesn't get boring. There are 3 amazingly 
 large cities to explore, with 3 districts in each, and loading times only leaving/entering a city 
 (which aren't too long and are interactive for the most part) . You'll assassinate 9 key figures, 
 and uncover a somewhat dissapointing story (if you add in the terrible ending) , but is entertaining 
 to a certain degree. So, going back to the controls, and on that topic, I'll introduce you to the 
 best part of AC, the climbing. You can climb huge towers, slickly move across rooftops, and just 
 explore to your hearts content with this huge world, and it always feels right. Everything you 
 climb is perfectly aesthetic to that building, never providing obvious juts that don't make sense 
 in the building's floorplan so-to-speak. The last thing I wish to cover is fighting. Sure it's 
 cool the first few hours, but then it gets tiresome. X is to attack, RT + X counters attacks, RT 
 + B counters grabs, and that's pretty much all you'll be doing. Most enemies come at you one at 
 a time, so you'll usually counter which provides an instant kill to the lesser-types which is mostly 
 what you fight. The stronger guys can be knocked down by a counter and bashed while they're trying 
 to get up. Don't get me wrong, the animations and kills are perfectly brutal, just lacking in thought 
 and diversity. I would have liked some combos (i. e. X, X, Y) thrown in for measure and maybe harder 
 to pull off combos with instant kill rewards to higher ranking enemies.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. The music is pretty non-existant until enemies show up trying to attack 
 you. Then it picks up and makes you feel like you really need to escape. The voice acting is fairly 
 good, but the voice of Altair, while understandable in the storyline, just is way too out-of-place. 
 The dialogue in the citizens of the cities is lacking, and needed a bit more work.
  
  Graphics: Awesome graphics. The characters look great, citizens as well, and mostly the towns/cities 
 (whatever you want to call them) . It's just so fun to traverse the different areas with your unique 
 abilities. The art direction is pretty great, and is immersive for the 1191 AD feel.
  
  Value: $60, and rule out the Collector's Edition (which I got) . The Altair figure is not very detailed, 
 it's only 3 inches, it comes with a miniscule 1-chapter strategy guide that doesn't help, a Bonus 
 Disc with a dissapointing set of features, and a tin that is perfectly worthless. If you get any, 
 I recommend the $60 game-only AC. Of course, that's if you want to buy it. There's not much replayability 
 other than finishing up Achievements (i. e. getting all those darn flags) . I'd suggest borrowing 
 it from a friend first, and if you feel you really need it, then buy it. I do, however, highly 
 recommend it to Prince of Persia fans since you'll get a lot of the same type of platforming elements 
 (except in a bit slower element in both environment and move types) .
  
  Final Comments: I made the mistake of getting it all hyped up and letting it dissapoint me to some 
 degree. Sure it's a great game that looks to have a great sequel, but it could have used a bit 
 more variety and polish where it was due. It's worth playing, whether you buy it or borrow it, 
 or even rent it, just try it out for the adventure because it's surely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nooblet69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is truly next gen in its look, feel and all around style. Though it may be 
 repetitive it can be very rewarding after each assassination as you get new upgrades, moves, abilities 
 and weapons after each major assassination. But it leaves many people wanting more because of its 
 lack of variety in game play. An example of this would be that you always have the same thing to 
 do for each mission ( investigations, pickpocketing, eavesdropping, interrogation, and odd jobs 
 which are usually finding flags) . But for people like me the game is just fun to run around on 
 rooftops and just explore the beautiful environments and different cities of acre, damascus, jerusalem 
 and the kingdom which are the roads in between the cities. This game is truly epic and if only 
 the developers would of put more thought into the game play this game could of been a master piece. 
 Overall its a great game and was a must buy for me but I suggest most people check it out at a 
 friends house or rent it before you purchase as the game is not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonPerian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  For many, this game had been one of the most hihly anticipated titles for 2007 and for many, it 
 game as a hug dissapointment when it recieved a luke warm reception from several other game sites.
 
  
  Every time I play this game, it reminds me of why I enjoy playing games in the first place. It's 
 that unidentifiable X factor that drives me to carry on with the game and complete it to t's fullest 
 without worrying about Achievements or my Rank compared to others or any of that other stuff which 
 seems to be the focus so much nowadays. I just have fun every time I pop in this game. Maybe it's 
 the fact that I can climb anything, maybe it's the setting, or maybe it's the fact that it's my 
 first non-shooter game in awhile (excluding GHIII and Forza 2) that I've been attached to. Whatever 
 it is, I encourage you to try it out for yourself and, taking all the reviews into account, you 
 be the judge. Many have critisized it for being repetitive but I believe it is about as repetitive 
 as any other game out there - especially if you're a fan of shooters, like me. 
  
  All in all, I'm not going to go in depth as to WHY I like this game so much, just the fact that 
 I DO and that I recommend you to try it for yourself and come to your own conclusion. As for me, 
 it brought back that ever loving X factor that sucked me into games in th first place, before developers 
 had to worry about so much other shallow material to fill up a game disc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raito666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is a game that has many positives to it as well as quite a few negatives but in 
 the end i believe the good outways the bad. 
  
  Some of the good things are the battle system, it looks amazing when in fights and is fun, climbing, 
 just fun to jump from rooftop to rooftop and traveling in cities is a joy, the animations, animations 
 are amazing and always seem realistic or at least look good, and oh yea the graphics are some of 
 the best too.
  
  Some of the bad things are villagers use the same voice effects in scene after scene, and missions 
 can get repetitive.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Assasins Creed are amazing their some of the best on the console yet 
 with great textures, lighting, and animations. The artsyle while not amazing reflects the time 
 period quite well.
  10/10
  
  Sound: The initial soundaffects are good as well as with the voice acting for all characters except 
 the main one, Altair. Sound effects are top notch and ridiculously good, the soundtrack is very 
 subtle but is very fitting.
  8/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in AC is interesting and fun, the battle system bassically relies on timing 
 and while not to hard to use its not to easy, unless you sit back and only counter. Traveling in 
 the cities is fun, it never seems to get old when your exploring and fighting gaurds.
  10/10
  
  Length: The actuall time to beat the game may be between 15-40 hours depending on 
 how much you explore and do extra missions. The real problem with length is the replay value while 
 some will want to play it again just for fun others will probally never touch it agian. The main 
 reason for this is lack of different mission styles and submissions, the main types are; finding 
 perch points, saving civillians, pickpocketing, eavsdropping, finding flags, killing templars, 
 assasination for information, and the main assasinations. So while those seem like a lot they dont 
 take much time to do and other than that its up for you to find things to do for yourself.
  5/10
  
  Presentation: The presentation is pretty standard menus are practically non existent 
 and the map is easy to use if you find viewpoints. One interesting descisions is you can have only 
 one save file per profile but it probally wont affect you.
  8/10
  
  Overall: The game is fun and exciting while it lasts but the main problem with Assasins Creed is 
 lack of variety and deeper meatier missions, but if you happen to like action with some stealth 
 and minigames along the way then you should defintley give it a rental or a try at least
  8.5/10 (not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle_Uzi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is not a stealth game. It's not an action game. Hell, it's not even a platforming 
 game. It is a unique genre unto its own. The combination of hiding in a crowd, killing dozens of 
 guards or racing across a rooftop is such a dazzling one that it literally will take about an hour 
 to just get used to the concept of it. Once understood, this is a supremely satisfying game. The 
 controls are brilliantly exectued with tons of commands available to Altair, all on one gamepad. 
 Sadly it isn't always perfect with a few climbing issues and inconsistently difficult AI, but it's 
 damned near close. Gameplay: 9
  
  Graphically speaking, Assassin's Creed is a wonder to behold. Hundreds of people onscreen, miles 
 upon miles of city or countryside, and an absolutely beautifully rendered Altair are just a few 
 of the marvels of art design and technical brilliance in this game. Each city is unique in atmosphere 
 and look, as are its inhabitants and the architecture. This game is stunning. Graphics: 10
  
  The sound design in Assassin's Creed is pretty good. Heart pumping soundtrack plus great environmental 
 effects make for a fantastic experience. All voice acting is fantastic save Altair himself, who 
 just sounds like he took the 'calm and composed' motivation a little overboard. In the end though, 
 the dialogue in this game is about being listened to, not being over-dramatized. Seriously - LISTEN 
 CLOSELY TO THE BUREAU MAN. Don't forget that, or you'll never get your job done. Sound: 8
  
  There's quite a bit to do here. The main quest will take about 20 hours if leisurely approached, 
 and after that there are hundreds of flags and dozens of Templars to collect and slay, respectively. 
 If you take your time, you'll probably spend about 40 hours with this game when all is said and 
 done. Value: 8
  
  I really, really like Assassin's Creed. It's just marvelous in its scope. The Sci-Fi twist to the 
 story is great (as is the story itself) , the combat is simple and satisfying, and the assassin 
 work is downright awesome I just love this game, and you should too. Tilt: 10
  
  Can't go wrong with GTA: Holy Land....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  So,
  The Bad: Clunky frame rates when things REALLY get going, some clipping and blocky shading, Somewhat 
 weak AI at times, kinda repetive AND
  the story I personally loved the story because it let you kinda make the game go the way you wanted, 
 but after spending two days playing and getting such a garbage end made me wanna cry.....
  
  The Good: Incredible execution, this game is second to none and hell it's even created its 
 own genre "Historic Action Adventure" LOL Basically everything is good in this game depending at 
 how you look at it. In the beginning you'll hate the controls, AI, questing and that. But once 
 you finish you want more and you just can't stop. Not to mention finding all the templars and throwing 
 them off of mountains, high buildings, etc is quite rewarding =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMRB
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an exceptional game with impressive graphics and a well constructed story. 
 The game has exciting fight scenes, especially in regard to the combo attacks and counter attacks. 
 There is also a lot of suspense that builds up when you are being chased by guards and also when 
 you are searching frantically for a place to hide. The layouts of the cities are impressive and 
 have vast areas to explore and to discover. 
  
  Now for the bad, all of the great stuff that there is to do gets somewhat repetitive and can become 
 tiresome after a few hours. I enjoy playing it but I still find it to contain redundant missions 
 and the difficulty is only heightened by the inability to save whenever you feel like it. Another 
 factor is that clipping appears to be a problem making the structures and terrain appear to not 
 be solid. 
  
  Other than the few blemishes and the redundancy of the missions, the game is action-packed and 
 can be extremely enjoyable. The repetition is not so unpalatable that I have stopped playing; I 
 just feel they are the negatives of an otherwise entertaining adventure through the Middle Ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcofnightmares
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an amazing game. I am terribly impressed with the fighting system, the overall 
 scale of the cities, and the number of NPCs. The game does have quite a few shortcomings, in my 
 opinion, however.
  
  First off, AI is not great. It shows some interesting programmed responses, but the people are 
 clearly doing nothing but walking or standing. As expansive as the game is, I still feel limited. 
 I cannot go inside buildings, barriers are still clearly existent -- which is inevitable in a video 
 game -- and water is inaccessible. The sidequests are repetitive to no end; as much as I love the 
 gameplay, saving one civilian is the same as the next fifty, and pickpocketing and eavesdropping 
 are nothing special either. The game feels as though it needs more variety in gameplay.
  
  As much as I may seem to be bashing the game, I only complain because I have held this game above 
 any other in my mind for the past two years. I am satisfied, but I feel the game could have been 
 much more, could have been far improved upon what it is. Assassin's Creed is an amazing, revolutionary 
 game, and on a scale from 1-to-10, I would give it an 8/10. Freerunning is endlessly fun! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endtime222
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I read reviews from other sites (without mentioning names) and found myself almost skipping on 
 this game. Thank goodness that I decided to pick it up and play it for myself. In one word, Assassins 
 Creed is "Immersive." Think about Prince of Persia but next gen with free roaming and much deeper 
 game play. In a time where some gamers are complaining about games being too short, Creed is sure 
 to have your attention for hours on end. The game has been designed with a lot of attention to 
 detail as seen in the cities that you will be exploring. The crowds of people and your surroundings 
 are very believable although some of the "philosophers" can get a bit annoying if you pay attention 
 to them. This game is not perfect however. I could have done without the whole "Matrix like plot" 
 but it doesn't take anything away from the game. Otherwise, the game has it's small flaws but remeber 
 it's a game, not real life. So make the wise choice of checking this game out. You owe it to yourself 
 to get a taste of how gaming for this type of platform should be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsman_12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  this game has some seriously nice graphics, very intervative gameplay able to go practically anywhere. 
 a couple things that could be improved through like the story it was kinda confuseing and if u 
 have some questions http://www. computerandvideogames. com/article. php? id=175552&site=xbw this site 
 explains it all. also if he could swim and their would be a change from night to day where other 
 things alot of people wanted. but all around it was a very nice game and in my opinion one of the 
 best games of the year. And also if u have a question about after the first 3 kills and u gotta 
 go to all 3 areas u have too go to the rich district for invertagation clues i know i found this 
 out the ahrd way. i hope u have a fun time playing this awsome game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FULLMETAL16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game should definitely be a part of your collection. 
  
  The Good: This game has some of the biggest environments I've ever seen in a game. They may not 
 be as big as say... Oblivion, but getting from point A to point B is an adventure on its own. Leaping 
 from roof to roof, running up walls, or just charging through a group of pedestrians to get where 
 you want to get is always fun. Your constantly trying to lay low so the guards leave you alone, 
 then again sometimes you just dotn care who sees you and run and leap and have guards up your ass 
 trying to kill you, still fun :D
  
  The game is neither hard nor is it easy. It all depends on how you play through it. If your going 
 to rush everything then ya it might get a little tough with teh guards chasing you constantly. 
 If you take things nice and slow it'll be a lot easier to sneak around but it might take a while 
 to get where you want to go, but it truly makes you feel as if your blending in with your surroundings 
 ready to pounce onto your prey.
  
  The fighting is awesome. The counter attacks are amazing. Watching Altair swing his sword into 
 a guards neck makes you cringe because you can almost feel it (in a good way) . Sneaking up behind 
 a guard and stabbing them in the back is a blast. And whats even more fun is chasing down a target 
 and pouncing onto them only to drive your hidden blade into the back of their neck. quick and clean 
 kill, like a true assassin, only drawback is it might give you away to others, oh well no worries.
 
  
  If it looks like you can climb it, climb it. Almost EVERYTHING can be scaled and climbed. You never 
 have to look for something to climb liek in teh prince of persia games ( whichare awesome by the 
 way) . Find ANY building, climb. Thats all there is to it. I find the fastest way to travel is by 
 rooftops, just watch out for guards on the roofs.
  
  the weapons are always rewarding. the hidden blade, a personal fave, is a quick and easy way to 
 kill. The throwing knives, perfect for stealthy assassinations from rooftops. Sword, well its a 
 sword. I still love it, but the hidden blade is so much more rewarding. Fists, well you wont need 
 them much except for interrogations and knocking out thugs when you fail to steal from them.
  
  The Bad: MIld lag issues, but thats to be expected in a game with such large environments and 
 so many citizens roaming the streets. Also, some of the objectives may seem to get a little repetitive 
 after a while, but you chose how you want to go about doing them so it always feels fresh. Mild 
 visual glitches but it doesnt do anything to take away from the game. Those are probably the only 
 flaws i found in the game.\
  
  Well thats all I have to say on the good and the bad. The story on the other hand is a whole other 
 story. And thats not a bad thing. I wont say anything because I dont want to spoil anything, but 
 its definitely unexpected. I like the plot twist. I guess it depends on the player.
  
  
  I apologize for any spelling errors by the way. im typing rather quickly and i cant fix them without 
 screwing up the rest of the text.
  
  anyway
  DEFINITELY get this game!
  
  If you're a fan of the Prince of Persia games, you'll definitely enjoy Assassin's Creed. If not, 
 its still one of the best games out there and will remain so for a long time to come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. At first the controls take a little getting used to, then after a while they 
 feel very natural.
  
  The Pros:
  
  - Graphics (looks nice and fluid)
  - Sound (very immersive)
  - Controls (natural and easy to learn)
  
  The Cons:
  
  - You 
 can't pan the camera around when "blending in" with your environment.
  - When you quit, I'm not sure where I'll restore next time.
  - No subtitles.
  
  So far, the 
 game doesn't feel repetitive. There are a lot of similar things you do in the game, but each city 
 has been different and new. It's fun climbing around and successfully doing the missions. There 
 are side missions and extra fun things to do, like find flags spread throughout cities. The graphics, 
 animation and sound really do well to put you in the story. What I really felt I needed was subtitles, 
 or at least the option to turn them on. Sometimes the music or sound effects prevented me from 
 hearing what people said. Over all this is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: optic69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this has got to be the best game I've played in a long time. It has so much to offer: interacting 
 with AI's, interestingly different ways of assassination, solid plot, unique and varied ways of 
 escaping, realistic fighting sequences, interactive movie sequence and very addicting game play. 
 This kind of game are the ones that revolutionize the gaming community. Seeing and playing games 
 like this makes me want to game gaming until the end of time, or when Jack Thompson becomes ruler 
 of the world, but let's all hope for a future of the former. Jade Raymond is hot so that's a total 
 bonus! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strawberry9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to find games with good all around gameplay. Assassins creed however, provides the user 
 with an amazing gameplay, there are rarely any glitches, which is surprising, considering how many 
 things are going on at the same time during gameplay. The graphics could not be better, there is 
 just so much detail, that it just astonished the user. Many argue that this game is repetitive, 
 but it is only repetitive if you want it to be. This game is designed to not give the user a set 
 "way" of doing a mission, if you mix up the way you fight, this game will never get repetitive. 
 IGN has no clue what they are talking about, and thats why I never listen to their reviews.
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!! YOU ARE MISSING OUT ON THE BEST GAME TO DATE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blt338
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  upon hearing of this game i was a little skeptical.... but, man was i wrong. :) this game is amazing 
 to put it shortly. ahha.... i literally could not put this game down, yes it was that awesome. 
 
  
  ok first off its graphics:
  when i traveled, and saw the first big city that u come to in the game. i was truly astonished 
 by the scope and amazing magnitude of it... i just sat there on my couch staring at the screen 
 all googly eyed... :) googly eyed lol ... ok back to where i was sorry hehe ;) anyway everything 
 in the game looks absolutely amazing i mean this game definitely gives gears of war a run for its 
 money in regards to its presentation. 
  
  next up is the sound:
  this is another aspect that the game does surprisingly well.. i mean really there wasn't really 
 a lot of different noises really back in those times right???
  any way everything sounds top notch ranging from your shoes touching the ground to breaking a guys 
 arm by hitting it with the butt of your sword
  
  so overall this game marks the beginning of true next games to me. also its truly one of the best 
 games that i own, besides guitar hero 3 lol, sorry i had to say that teehee. so in my opinion this 
 is certainly a must buy for people who like  games 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theSTEEF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The first three guys you kill are a blast. You can think of this as a good thing or a bad thing 
 cuz the next set of 3 guys is going to be the same. Come on, all the citizens you're saving have 
 the same thing to say? And informers, do i really have to find their lost flags for them? Yous 
 playing area is pretty big, so i was hoping to find more diverse side missions. Nope. At least 
 they could have added more dialog. I dunno, it just feels unfinished. Like i said, if you had a 
 great time killing the first three guys then maybe it might be fun to do it two more times or maybe 
 not. Surprisingly shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome and i have it. it has everything. gfdbh df gh dfh dg hef heirh erbir be rg 
 g g g dg gj gkdf g gf g geg g sk gsr g sr gr egkbregrg er ger ga ger gberg e grg er gerh gerger 
 ge ghrg rgbergerg r gr gjh gj grjehghe hjg re gerh gerh gjre ghgre g rg er gerh rgr r egr gr g 
 g gr fgbfhgbfh f hh h hf f fh fh f hfh fh h fh fh fh fh f h f hf hf h h hh hh hh fhh dfh erbtyry 
 teh tr hgr drjg dt etd gbrgehjbg ejlgj gr t r tjrre ggnfg er gr g e gr g g d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkojimax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The hype for Assassin's Creed may have raised the bar of expectations a bit too high, but AC did 
 not disappoint. Some people may find the game repetitive, but personally, the more time you put 
 into AC, the more you will enjoy it.
  
  From personal experience, i play the game on and off since release (only because i have my hands 
 tied with CoD4 and others at the moment) , and every time i play, the longer i take playing. Every 
 time i play, the more i love and enjoy the game. 
  
  The visuals are stunning, the world around you is unbelievable. You can spend hours just running 
 around aimlessly just staring at how accurate and detailed all the cities are.
  
  If you are a person that would love free-running around town, solid and fun combat, a very interesting 
 story with a big plot twist right from the beginning, and all in all a fantastic experience, then 
 AC is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJflufeh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is not that good at the beginning because your like kinda agusting and it kind limmited 
 but it gets way better as it gose on. when you rank up you get better stuff and it gets way more 
 fun. so dont be disheartend at the begging, just get to when u can counter attack trust me every 
 thing will go smothly. it alos has a range of different things that can happen bassed on outcome. and 
 its really crazy. and the story line isnt that bad, and beside who really care sabout the story 
 line. i mean the matrix was a good movie and look at its storyline
  really bad ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjims4me
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  freakin awesome the best game ever it was better than i expected. my friend doesn't like it but 
 he is a nerd and plays gears of war everyday. i can't think of anything else to say just need to 
 make this 100 words so i am going to type random stuff =0 omg i was like up your buthole when i 
 saw a quarter yay! then i went tot he mall and was like weeeee and then i was like why do i have 
 to type 100 words this is dumb i just wanted to rate it really 10 for sure nothing less i rock 
 the game rocks you r dumb so suck a pen or something else random 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LimpBIT1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  To say the least, this game is extremely full bodied. Amazing graphics, sweet sounds, killer gameplay, 
 and a storyline that totally immerses you in the game. You feel the rush of being Altair and just 
 pulling off that perfect assassination after working so hard to find him. If you are looking for 
 an awesome game that will capture you as soon as you boot up it up, look into getting this game. 
 One of my favorite parts of the game was definitely the fact that it was left on such a cliffhanger 
 into the next game. I am looking forward to the next in this series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flight_815
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is brilliant to play. The combat system is excellent, you can easily fight multiple guards 
 in a battle by button mashing the attack button, but once you get to learn the timings for counter 
 attacks and combos, you will start to see new moves performed that are great fun to watch.
  Climbing all over buildings and leaping about over rooftops never gets old as you can literally 
 clamber over everything. You can swing through market stalls and balance your way over thin beams. 
 The animations are seamless. 
  The game can be played to the taste of whoever is playing it. Whether you like to blend in and 
 take your time, assassinating your victims and then merging back into the hustle and bustle without 
 anyone knowing. Or, you like to sprint across rooftops and throw yourself down into the streets 
 below, barging through the crowds and sending people flying so you can pin your victim to the ground 
 with the hidden blade you holster, then fight off numerous guards before hiding in a bale of hay 
 until things cool off.
  An overall fantastic game. LOTS OF FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarkmith
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game around 6 months ago and like a small child waiting for santa to arrive, 
 I practically couldn't sleep the final few days before release date!
  
  So the game arrived (thanks Mr Postman!) , I put it in the drive and the intro sequence blew me 
 away. The graphics are amazing with the video sequences and in the game itself, they're the best 
 graphics and scenery I've seen in any game! 
  
  It took me about 30 minutes to get used to the controls (most of that time was probably spent drooling 
 over the graphics come to think of it) and I start to get stuck in. 
  
  The next thing i know, it's 3 hours later and I'm still doing the same things I was at the beginning 
 of the game. Climbing up to viewpoints, diving off of them in to carts full of hay, the same attacking 
 moves and assassination styles and running along roof tops which are all very similar. 
  
  The game is great, graphically. The gameplay is extremely repetitive though and the very same day 
 I got it, I thought about trading it in for another game. To prospective buyers, borrow it/rent 
 it first. To people that have already bought it, take it back next weekend so i can get a better 
 deal on trading it in tomorrow ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a brillent game to play.
  Its one of those games that make you want to do more than the story like explore and and do great 
 side missions.
  
  Story: this is one of my very few complaints: (minor **SPOILER**)
  the story is nice but your basically your in a memory machine the whole game because this great 
 assasian living in year 1191 is your ansestor so this machine kind of connects your families genetics 
 AND memorys together and this means you go back and aler he pass.
  (if you have not understood a word i have just said just keep reading)
  
  Gamplay:9/10
  The 
 game plays great climing fells really natural and looks great you can see your charachter putting 
 his feet into holes in walls etc.
  The games fighting systym is top notch eiter hack and slash your way through enemies or be smart 
 and let them attack, first then counter and watch your charachter brutally finish them of.
  Assasanating people is done excellently theres is dozens of ways to finish of enemys.
  
  graphics:10/10
 
  The graphics are brillent and it is a beautiful game to look at.
  I find this game more tecniacally impressive than Gears of war and more artically impressive than 
 oblivion.
  
  Value: Its a great game about 15 hours of story gameplay and then youv got side missions etc and 
 thy will take a long time and its up to you weather you bother with that or not.
  
  Sound: well not much to say hear apart from great music and great sound affects (like birds flapping 
 their wings, flap, flap well it sounds better than that)
  
  Online:- (none) -
  
  well thats mt reviews for assasains creed thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, I couldn't help but be a little bit skeptical if Assassin's creed would really 
 happen to be a good game or not - It sounded a bit too much like it was trying to combine genres 
 in hopes of making some superior game that would eventually dissapoint. Well, I think you can see 
 from the reviews for this game from the users, it hit gold.
  
  Altair's Story: Without giving away too much, it's based upon Altair's story involving his journey 
 in 1191 to save the holy land, involving the assassinations of 9 particular men. I will say nothing 
 more, and leave the rest for you to see.
  
  The Look of an Assassin: This game may look a little anticlimatic graphically in "part 1", but 
 it's easy to see afterwords that every part of this game has been made for the next-gen, and handles 
 it fantastically. The only glitches I have actually noticed are intentionally part of the game (you 
 even get achievments for "un-glitching" 85% of them.
  
  The Sound of Death: Good voice acting combined with some interesting music when the time is right (Typically 
 when you decide to end someone's life) . AC tends to let you listen more in to the ambience of the 
 city, and not some musical score by John Williams blasting at 100 decibels.
  
  The Gameplay: The gameplay will feel very similar in many respects, and completely different in 
 others. Just like in PoP, you can wall jump, climb on walls, all but affect time and the like. 
 The difference is the environment you'll be moving around in isn't some big room with random poles 
 sticking out for unknown reasons - It's an entire city in which you can seemlessly climb onto, 
 anything that in real life would've been climeable (Windows, a ledge, a loose block) . 
  
  The stealth side is a little less vicious than splinter cell, but still requires a little challenge. 
 As far as fighting goes, it plays quite flowingly once you learn it well enough (which may take 
 some time) . Counterattacks pay off for those with high reflex, but you can always deflect and combo 
 kill enough to make it through. Assassinations will slowly get tougher, but it isn't necessarily 
 a huge challenge, just enough to keep you on your feet.
  
  The Bottom Line: Much like Bioshock, it may require a certain appeal for the splinter cell and/or 
 PoP games to really get hooked to it. This game is nonetheless an immersive experience that changes 
 for me every time I play it again, and again. I can literally get a little too close to a guard 
 by accident and unknowingly start a 5 minute chase scene... where else can you get this? Don't 
 believe IGN's bad review, it's a good buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam437
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  In our most humble, convict opinions, there is so much Assassin's Creed gets very right that it 
 sometimes makes other elements that tiptoe the generic line stand out a little bit more. It's not 
 perfect - there are issues and points that will either get under your skin or not - but it never 
 fails to entertain throughout.
  
  Here's a point to mull over that is really going to guide the rest of this review: Assassin's Creed 
 isn't GTA. It's not an RPG - even casually. The setting is huge and somewhat open-ended, but the 
 game structure is not. If you were hoping for a game that lets you go anywhere and do anything, 
 then please understand - this is a platformer with action and a bit of stealth. It's not particularly 
 deep and you can follow a straight line from one goal to the next, just traversing rooftops and 
 through villages on horseback. If you can contend with this, then you're in better stead to enjoy 
 what is a game that only does a few things, but does them very, very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYNYSTER24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  treggtrtrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr fg fg 
 fg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg gg g ggg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g gg 
 g g g gg g g g g gg gg g g g g bg gg g ggg g g g g g g g g g g fdeg fdg fdg grewgr gr gr gre eqr 
 ge rgeqrg erqg req gre g erg erq getghtg tgegreg gqr g gerg er ger ger gregergreger gre reg reg 
 re greg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blink2691
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed
  
  
  ...... What kinda name is Hilary anyways?
  
  Pansy.
  
  
  Anyways, hai guys. I've been bestowed with the ultimate power of teaching you guys about how awesome 
 this "Assassin's Creed" game is.
  
  Well... it's a pretty nifty game. I'll give you the DL mah nikkas.
  
  Spoiler free as well....
 
  
  So I can't tell you the entire beginning, but I'll tell you that the twist is really cool... or 
 the concept at least, but yeah, you start off finding out what Jade and Co. has been keeping under 
 wraps story wise, you get a little tutorial, and then you jump into the action.
  
  You're Altair (as I'm sure many of you know) and you're a bad ass. On your first little quest, 
 you and your two Padawan Assassin's are on a retrieval mission, to recover the Ark from Indiana 
 Jones. Well the shit hits the fan when this Frenchie general douchebag shows up with his little 
 crew. Altair's cocky ass is all like "MUST KILL FRENCHIE!!!", so he jumps down and gets destroyed 
 by Frenchie McDoucherson, and gets one of his Padawans killed in the process. Altair escapes to 
 his Assassin HQ, where from thereon, you get bitch slapped by your master, get all of your nifty 
 weapons taken away, your rank stripped away, and all of the other Assassins think you're a dumbass. 
 Now you have to prove yourself to all of the Assassins and gain your rank back, while at the same 
 time, searching for the French asshole, so that you can avenge your Padawans and your name.
  
  In order to regain your old rank as an Assassin, and prove yourself to your Assassin master, 
 you must complete 9 hits for him. These 9 guys are all shit heads, they sell weapons, enslave people, 
 murder innocents, and so on and so forth... So basically, you don't feel bad when you kill them. 
 However, you can't just find these guys and stab them in the face from the get-go, you need to 
 do about four investigations in order to gain enough information to plan your hit. The majority 
 of these investigations are either: eavesdropping, interrogations, pickpocketing, or doing a task 
 for an informant.
  
  Now, I shall give you the skinny on how these investigations on performed:
  
  -Eavesdropping: 
 There's really nothing to it, you just find the marker on your GPS, and sit on a nearby bench, 
 target the two guys you want to listen to, and press a button... not very exciting stuff, but it's 
 nice to get an easy break in your investigation.
  -Interrogations: These are quite fun, you go up a town crier guy, and then follow him when he's 
 done. They all lead you to a secluded alleyway and then you get to smack the shit out of him... Then 
 they talk... Altair says the badass equivalent of "Goodbye" and spring blades the fucker.
  -Pickpocketing: These are pretty simple as well, the only problem is that the guy that you need 
 to pickpocket can be in guarded areas at times. Basically, you just follow a guy, watching his 
 movements, follow closely behind him, press and hold down the pick pocket button, and steal his 
 note, map, etc.
  -Informants: These guys piss me off. They're little pussy assassin's who are all like, "Help me 
 big strong Altair, I'm too much of a little shit to do my hit... do it for me, and I'll tell you 
 some information." So then like ten guards pop up on your GPS, and you have to take them out quietly, 
 without alerting any guards before the time runs out. These are the most annoying of the investigations.
 
  
  And in order to find out where you can conduct your investigations, you must scout around the city, 
 and find view points, so that you can scan the area... Then you get to do one of those nifty leaps 
 of faith.
  
  You can also find little side thingies. Which are basically just saving citizens from the corrupt 
 guards, by taking all the guards out. Then the citizen will tell you how grateful they are. If 
 they're a guy, you'll get some monks to hide with, if they're a girl, they'll get their.. five brothers 
 or uncles or whatever to fight the guards when they're chasing after you. This really comes in 
 handy. Thanks chums.
  
  But yeah, when you finally get to your hit, it's great, the game engages one of it's interactive 
 cinematics, and you watch how evil these guys you're bringing down are.. Then after the cut scene 
 you're left to figure out the time to strike. If you want to be slow and calculating, you can do 
 that, if you want to say fuck it and run after the guy, a chase will usually occur. These chases 
 are always great, because... you're just finding ways through your parkour to catch up to these 
 dickheads.. and when you finally do... it's so great.. it's the same animation everytime, but it's 
 beautiful. You tackle the guy, and smash your hidden blade into his head.
  
  Once you get your target, a little cut scene occurs with you and your target in some kind of purgatory, 
 where you basically say "Goodnight sweet child" to your target, and the target makes you questions 
 your actions and your orders. Then, boom. You're out of your purgatory, and back in the city... and 
 the cities on full alert.
  
  RUN BITCH RUN!
  
  Which brings me to my next point. Free running.
  
  Free running, is sex. It's amazing, like, 
 the fact that Jade Raymond put this in the game makes me want to do her even moreso. First off 
 the controls of the free running are great, all you have to do (in the case of the 360) is hold 
 down the right trigger, and the A button, and point the joystick in the direction of the object 
 that you want to look incredible on. You almost want to get chased by the guards, just so you can 
 humiliate them by effortlessly sprinting and jumping, leaping, bounding, from rooftop to rooftop. 
 These moments are truly cinematic.. and.. incredible.
  
  Now to my next point... The combat. The combat system in the beginning of this game kinda sucks... because 
 you can't really do anything besides block and hit with your sword... But once you rank up, omfg 
 nikka. The way Ubisoft did the combat in this game is like nothing else I've seen before, and it 
 works perfectly with the character and the flow of the game. Basically, if you didn't know already, 
 the combat system is really based off of studying your enemies movements, and making sure your 
 timing is right. And once you master the combat system, you truly feel like a stone cold mother 
 fucker. You'll easily dispatch about fifteen guards, all through a series of counters, grabs, and 
 stepping/dodging. It's great. Now, if you're a button masher, you can do that in this game too... but... you're 
 going to get your ass kicked pretty frequently if you do.
  
  The combat system and the free running are really the ultimate high points of this game, because 
 the thing that makes a game amazing for me, is if it makes you think differently when playing it, 
 and this is what Assassin's Creed does. When free running, you're constantly scanning your environment 
 for things to run up, jump to, or climb up, or hide in. When in combat, as said before, you're 
 analyzing your opponents, and determining the time to strike. You're not only analyzing when you're 
 in combat or free running though, you need to use it when you're walking through the streets, basically 
 watching out for guards, and making sure you aren't doing anything suspicious.
  
  But since I've brought that up, I need to talk about some of my gripes:
  
  As you progress 
 in the game, the guards become more suspicious of you, since your actions become more and more 
 well known. Which is understandable.. but very frustrating. I've found myself getting in trouble 
 with the guards for reasons unknown. I'll just be walking down the street and my blinker will suddenly 
 turn red, which is annoying... Because walking across an entire city like a monk takes a very long 
 time, and I'm not that patient. Another annoying thing.. Those fucking beggars and town retards/drunks/whatever 
 the fuck they are. Annoying as fuck. I can't stand it when the cities on high alert, the guards 
 are all searching for me, I'm walking slowly down a corridor, and some bitch beggar runs up
  "HALP! HALP! IM HUNGREEEE!!! FEEEEEED MEEEEE!" They block your path and follow in front of you 
 for about two blocks... It really tests your self control.. How badly I wanted to stab them Sad
 
  
  Then there's the drunks, these guys find a way to show up whenever you need to follow someone to 
 pickpocket, assassinate, or interrogate. These anorexic dipshits hobble over to you and smack you 
 around because they're angry that they can't get off the sauce. Then sometimes there's another 
 one nearby, so the two fuckos play ping pong with you, shoving you back and forth. GRRRRR
  
  I would have loved if if they could have toned down those things just a little bit. Because 
 it gets very annoying having guards chase you, just because you're galloping through the kingdom.
 
  
  Now for my last pro about the game: the story and presentation..
  This game's story is awesome, as I said before, the stories concept is really awesome... and when 
 I was craving more Assassin's Creed, I couldn't figure out if it was because I wanted to find out 
 more about the story... or because the game play was so great. I found myself trying to kill my 
 targets as quickly as possible, because I wanted to unravel more of the mystery, and overall story 
 of this game. And the story doesn't disappoint. The story is told through great voice acting, even 
 the citizens don't sound very cheesy. The presentation... yowza. This one of those games, where 
 you stop playing for a minute... and just look at what's going on around you.. How lively the city 
 and it's people look.. the lights/shadows.. and the dusty textures of the environment all make you 
 realize this is like a work of art. Like Bioshock, this is a game that truly immerses you in its 
 world and pushes the standard for video games once again. You didn't disappoint Ubisoft.
  
  9/10
  
  
  
  
  Btw. Kristen Bell.... What a babe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtabor5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed by far is one of the best and most innovative games of 2007. The game takes place 
 in both the past and the present so there are basically two story that you have to follow up until 
 the last 2 hours of the game where they are tied together. The graphics and the sound are some 
 of the best I've seen, and they add to the very deep and detailed story. The game last for about 
 12-15 hours if you run through it but if you take you time it should last you about 20 hours. A 
 lot of people do not like the ending because its confusing but its not really confusing its just 
 a cliff hanger and its kinda anti-climatic because of the two story's it tells. overall assassins 
 creed is a very good game that will keep you busy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  
  The Good: Climbing and fighting mechanics are intact and quite fun; graphics look great; amazing 
 soundtrack and voice acting; story is extremely innovative; gigantic world to explore; a lot of 
 different ways to approach your targets and tasks.
  
  The Bad: Cliffhanger ending; missions may feel repetitive at times; talking sequences can get boring 
 after a while.
  
  Most people had heard of Assassin's Creed prior to its release. Be it from the demo shown at E3, 
 or various articles or videos, most of us were in awe when seeing its unique features. Climbing 
 on buildings, diving off of ridiculously tall structures, gently pushing citizens out of the way 
 to get to your target, a knife that comes out of your hand! All of these things were eagerly awaited. 
 Finally, Assassin's Creed is here. All of the features that you know of are intact, as well as 
 a couple of new ones, but in ways that feel different from the demos and videos. However, this 
 is one experience that shouldn't be missed... by anyone... well... what are you doing? Go and get 
 this game NOW... after you're done reading this review, so you know what you're in for.
  First off, the beginning of the story has a very unique twist to it, one that I probably shouldn't 
 spoil. But anyway, it takes place in the year 1191, during the Third Crusade. The main story follows 
 the adventures of Altiar Ibn La-Ahad, or just Altair. Altair, as you've probably guessed, is an 
 assassin in a cult... of assassins. At the very beginning, he and two other men are stealthily exploring 
 a cave looking for a treasure that their master had requested. However, on finding the treasure's 
 possible location, a rival cult intervenes. Altair disobeys the creed of the assassin, or the Assassin's 
 Creed (Yeah, that's where the title comes from) and confronts them, believing he is above the Creed. 
 It turns out, he's not. He's separated from his men after trying to take on the leader of the cult, 
 and escapes from the cave, leaving his comrades to die. 
  He returns to his master, giving him the unfortunate news. His master, who is furious, demotes 
 Altair to a novice, removes his equipment (and somehow his abilities ???) , and gives Altair the 
 chance to redeem himself. Altair has no choice but to accept. He is asked to kill nine specific 
 men, who have, supposedly, been commiting horrible crimes. These aren't just your average, everyday 
 guys either. They're leaders of organizations, rich men and/or crazed psychopaths.
  To get to these targets, who are strategically located throughout the Kingdom, you must travel 
 to the city where they have been seen, and go to the Assassin's Bureau, where you will receive 
 places where you can find information on your target. After you find the location, you need to 
 find the specific location. What better way to do that than by climbing a tall structure to orient 
 yourself? After climbing a couple of towers, churches, ect., you can actually begin your investigation 
 on your target's schedule, weakness (es) , attitude, and occupation (s) . You'll usually have about 
 four to six different sources where you can get your information, but you only have to choose three. 
 There are a couple of ways to get information. You can eavesdrop, pickpocket, interrogate, or do 
 tasks for other assassin's in your cult.
  After getting all of your information, you return to the assassin's bureau to recap on all that 
 you've learned. You then must find, and assassinate your target. The way you do this is pretty 
 cool. When you find your target, a large crowd, which you will stealthily blend into, will be gathered 
 around him. At this time, all you can do is watch. After, probably, killing someone, or causing 
 a commotion, he will tell the crowd to disperse. At that time, you follow, and strike.
  You repeat these same actions 9 times throughout the game. Although they do feel repetitive at 
 times, it provides a fun little mystery aspect to the game, and challenges you to kill your target 
 as quick and anonymously as you possibly can.
  As you kill your targets, you will get new weapons and abilities that you can use in battle or 
 moving through a crowd. All of these work very well.
  The main mode of battle is a sword fight. Pressing "R" gives you a defensive stance, and "X" is 
 your attack button. Again, many other abilities are available, and really change the way you fight. 
 
  As you're walking, or hopping, around the towns, you have two main modes: high and low profile. 
 In low profile, you simply walk around. Your "B" button is a gentle push. Holding it through thick 
 crowds will get you through them easily. The "A" button makes you blend into the crowd. You can 
 assume the position of a scholar, and although you move extremely slow, you're mostly safe. The 
 "L" button lets you lock on to specific people when you want to track or follow them. Finally, 
 the "X" button brings out your currently equipped weapon. When you want to go into high profile, 
 you simply hold down the "R" button. In this mode you can run, sprint, and jump with "A", you can 
 grab and throw people with "B". The "X" button is, again, your weapon, and the "L" button is still 
 lock on. The controls work fluently, and make controlling Altiar a breeze. 
  Climbing structures is easy. All you have to do is find something that you can grab and use the 
 control stick to move Altair around. Although generally simple, it works quite well.
  If you're running from guards, or just exploring, you've got a lot of room to run. The towns are 
 gigantic. There's plenty of room to run around, and there are a lot of people to knock over.
  When it comes to graphics, Assassin's Creed looks really good. There's a lot of lighting effects, 
 and every little detail about the characters and cities is filled in gorgeously. 
  The soundtrack is amazing. When you're escaping or fighting, the music gets very serious while 
 still retaining that Third Crusade feel to it. Along with the music, the voice acting is beautifully 
 done. The voices are just done extremely well.
  The game can be finished in over ten hours, possibly fifteen or twenty... somewhere between those. 
 The game doesn't feel too short and doesn't feel too long either. 
  Altogether it's not exactly what admirers may have expected, but when you really think about it, 
 that's not really a bad thing! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xivalai72
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the most amazing game ever. The game is about scientists going through your 
 mind about your ancestors to find something. In your mind you get to control your ancestor and 
 do what he had to do. Throughout the game you have to assassinate 10 major people. (If you haven't 
 beaten it yet you'll know what I mean by the tenth person when you do beat it.) The fights on this 
 game are very fun and intense. If you save a citizen being tortured by a guard they will tell vigilanties 
 or scholars to help you. The scholars will let you blend in and you can pretend you are one of 
 them. The vigilanties block the guards' paths so that they can't catch you and you have a chance 
 to get away. In my opinion, this is the best game UbiSoft has ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lifetaker22
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is so repetitive to the point that it's a chore to get through. There's only 4 
 ways to get information (eavesdropping, interrogation, pickpocket and informer) ... once you do all 
 4 and kill your first target you've seen the whole game. Everything gets old very fast.... from 
 having to sit there through the spinning camera on top of view points to the same dialogue from 
 saved NPC's (they literally say the same line over and over and over) .
  
  As far as fighting, once you get the counter and grab break not even a group of 20 guards can kill 
 you.... so there's no fear of being caught or reason to run and hide (even though the game revolves 
 around both concepts) . 
  
  The graphics/sound are good but Altairs voice acting is horrible to the point that it makes the 
 others sound great... maybe that was their money saving plan? You'd think the main character would 
 have the best voice acting since he's talking all the time.... but nope.
  
  I've also experienced frame rate problems in Jerusalem.... must've been my 360 falling asleep from 
 boredom. There's also a good amount of graphical clipping in the game also.
  
  Overall i'm disappointed.... if they make a sequel hopefully they give it more depth. Hopefully 
 when I trade it in for Mass Effect i'll get at least $25 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko1o3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  If you've played any video games at all you pretty much know what's going to happen through the 
 whole story from the get go. Every mission you get is the same, you just kill a different person 
 in a (sometimes) different location *cough* Crackdown *cough*. Combat is fun for the first hour 
 or so but after that you seen it all and then it get old and VERY easy. One of the easiest games 
 I've played in a long time actually. 
  
  That's just the bad stuff though. This game is actually a lot of fun if you just rush through it. 
 Graphics don't get any better. Very few glitches.
  
  Great game to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This is a graphically stunning game, although not quite the perfect article in other areas. The 
 positives are:
  
  * Wonderfully realistic environment recreates twelve century holy land perfectly. 
  
  * Sound 
 effects are excellent, from the hustle and bustle of villagers going about their business to the 
 calm and serene sounds from high above the street. The sound effects when travelling on horseback 
 are also very good.
  
  * Good gameplay elements give this the feeling of a cross between Shadow Of The Colossus, Prince 
 Of Persia and Hitman.
  
  However before we crack open the champagne, here's what's not so great:
  
  * Without giving 
 too much away, you are pulled out of the twelfth century too soon and for too long. You're given 
 the plot of the game far too quickly.
  
  * You don't have to perform a stealth kill on your main targets. I feel this is the biggest problem 
 with the game. Sure you should be able to attack the lower level soldiers any way you want but 
 the whole point of the game (as suggested by the title) is to be an assassin. Assassin's are silent 
 and deadly. I was able to run and follow the second main target around and kill him in open view 
 and using full attack methods. Not good.
  
  * If you were forced to employ stealth tactics only when killing the main targets, then the investigation 
 missions would have more meaning. They would actually help you to complete your mission the way 
 you would have to. As it is, these missions serve as mere distraction. 
  
  If it weren't for the above points the game would have achieved a far higher rating. As it is, 
 it is a very good game, but not perfect. So to the overall score, which I give as being 8.8.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazona
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Just admit it, even you have thought about what it would be like to be an honest-to-god assassin. 
 Or better yet, what it would be like to be an assassin in the medieval ages. We all know that it's 
 something that'll never happen, but one can always dream. And thanks to Assassin's Creed that dream 
 has become so much more vivid. It really wouldn't be much of a surprise if this is how it was really 
 done back in those days. It almost makes you wonder exactly what kind of research Ubisoft did for 
 the development of this game. Creepy, sure, but whatever they did, it was certainly worth it.
 
  
  For those of you who have been hibernating in a cave on the north pole for the past two years or 
 so, Assassin's Creed is a game where you play an, you guessed it, assassin. You find your targets, 
 you kill them, and you try to get away unscratched. Sounds simple enough. But thankfully it's not 
 that shallow. There is a lot more depth to the game that one might think at first. The first time 
 you'll notice the depth of this game is when you first walk around in one of the big cities that 
 are featured in the game. These cities, and everything in between, look about as beautiful as you 
 can get. Each city is big and unique in its own right, with alleyways, merchant stalls, and beautiful 
 architecture to be seen everywhere you turn. The use of shadow and light is about as good as it 
 can get in the game, with shadows being cast appropriately, and just the right touches of bloom 
 lighting to give the whole a slightly more dreamy appearance. 
  
  And there's more to the cities than just a pretty look, as each one is just bustling with life. 
 Every corner you turn you'll hear or see something going on. Even though it's completely artificial, 
 the cities just breathe life, almost as if you could just reach out and touch the people in it. 
 And it all just sounds great, too, as does just about everything in the game. You'll never encounter 
 a moment of complete silence, but despite the constant chattering and other sounds that are part 
 of a busy city, the whole is never overwhelming, and instead adds a nice layer of realism and life 
 to each city. And the people in the cities don't just walk around oblivious of your absence until 
 something actually happens. The citizens in the city are most definitely aware of your presence, 
 and they'll do such things as frown upon your sanity as they see you climbing up the wall of a 
 nearby building, or scold you as you bump into them too hard. And the guards are just as aware 
 of your presence, and they become even more so the further you progress as they learn about your 
 deeds. Granted, their behavior isn't always flawless as sometimes you'll end up alarming them for 
 no obvious reason, but those are rare occasions, and generally speaking they do watch you closely, 
 suspicious of your actions, but they won't actively react until you do something particularly questionable 
 like running away from the scene of a crime (in your case an assassination) .
  
  Best of all, despite the size of the cities and the amount of people that inhabit them, the game 
 runs pretty much without a hitch for most part. Every now and then you will see a slight hiccup 
 or a small drop in frame rate, but these moments aren't nearly frequent enough to negatively affect 
 your enjoyment of the game. The only time that these frame rate drops become more noticeable than 
 usual is towards the latter quarter of the game when you see yourself facing more enemies at once. 
 This seems strange at first because despite there being more guards to face off against, the general 
 amount of people on screen at once is pretty much the same. But when you pay attention you'll realize 
 that the fighting sequences with the guards have far more animations to them than just walking 
 through a group of citizens. In fact, the citizens in the game are probably the least smoothly 
 animated, with the guards be the second smoothest in terms of animation, and Altair himself having 
 the biggest number of different animations. But even though the citizens in the game can have slightly 
 jerky movements at times, it's hardly noticeable and not even worth worrying about.
  
  When the guards do take action, you have the choice of either fending off with your sword, or you 
 can run as fast as your legs can carry you and find a place to hide. Considering that you're an 
 assassin and your goal is to kill your target and nothing more, you might as well just do the latter. 
 And there's more to it than just running around the streets until they give up chase. To get away 
 from the guards with their sharp swords, you can scale nearly every building you see, and continue 
 your flight over the roofs. And the way your character, Altair, climbs up those buildings is incredibly 
 fluid and realistic. It's quite clear that the developers have taken a lot of inspiration from 
 free running. Altair's movements are very smooth as he climbs and runs along the rooftops. It's 
 great fun to jump from one roof to the next, or to jump from a beam, then swing off a flagpole, 
 onto another beam, and then up a wall of yet another building. Heck, once you get into the spirit 
 of the whole free running concept, you'll probably never want to set foot on the ground again. 
 You'll have to at times, of course, but you likely won't want to regardless. And you really don't 
 feel as if the cities were built with just that purpose in mind. In fact, if you didn't know that 
 about it, you probably never would have guessed that you could climb up nearly everything that 
 sticks out 2 inches or more.
  
  The only flaws that you'll occasionally encounter when doing that are that sometimes Altair doesn't 
 seem to jump into the direction you intended him to, and that the controls can, on occasion, lag 
 a little. So every once in a while when you plan on jumping to that next rooftop in front of you, 
 it could happen that instead you'll end up going just slightly to the right, missing the roof, 
 and falling to the ground instead. Luckily this doesn't happen much, especially when you really 
 get a hang of the controls, and the chances of dying from a plummet to the ground are very slim 
 as well. The control lag, albeit even more rare, can be more annoying than the occasional falling. 
 For instance, you're desperately trying to get away from the guards chasing you, and you try to 
 climb up a nearby wall. The wall happens to not be very suitable for climbing, however, so you 
 want to run up the nearby structure instead. So obviously you turn the analog stick in that direction, 
 but instead of him immediately reacting to the change in input, he'll happily attempt to just climb 
 up the very same wall again. To get him to go up the other object, you'll have to let go of the 
 controls, turn him around, and then try again. This actual process only takes about a second, but 
 by that time you'll probably have ran up that un-scalable wall about two or so times. By which 
 times the guards will have caught up with you to give you a good old fashioned beating. Doesn't 
 mean you're automatically doomed as there's usually still plenty of opportunity to get away, but 
 it can be a source of frustration nonetheless. So thankfully, this kind of glitch only happens 
 on very rare occasions.
  
  And should you really see no means of escape anymore, then there is always the option of standing 
 your ground and fend them off. And while the combat system may appear simplistic at first, you'll 
 soon find out that there's a lot more depth to it than meets the eye. One of the most effective 
 ways to dispatch your foes is to counter their attacks. Like most games, this is done by assuming 
 a defensive stance, and then pressing a button at the right time as someone attacks you. But if 
 you're the impatient type, you can also try to simply bash their skulls in. But despite the use 
 of the word bash, one really can't speak of any form of button mashing. While you can get away 
 with doing this in the earlier stages, doing so will most certainly get you killed later on. Instead, 
 the timing for your offensive strikes is just as important as it is for your counters. Getting 
 the timing of your strikes right allows you to create an opening in your opponent's defense, giving 
 you the opportunity to do some damage. Get the timing wrong, however, and you risk the chance of 
 a pretty damaging counter attack. Keep in mind, however, that even if you get the timing of your 
 strikes right, there's pretty much always more than one guy around you, and the rest of them usually 
 won't just idly stand by and watch their buddy get mauled, so you will have to keep that in mind 
 as well and wait for the right moment to strike. A nice little addition is that sometimes you'll 
 see a guard panting or reaching for an injury, giving you a nice window of opportunity, provided 
 his friends don't get in your way of course.
  
  Of course the core of the game is the actual assassination. You basically receive your targets 
 from an assassin bureau of which one is located in each city you visit. From there on, it's off 
 to find a viewpoint and use it to scan your surroundings. After a few view points (or going up 
 the right one right away) , you'll get a couple of new icons on your radar, called a gps in the 
 game. These icons represent the different ways in which you can acquire necessary information on 
 the whereabouts of your target. They're such things as eaves dropping, pick pocketing, interrogation, 
 and informants. All but the informant ones should be immediately obvious what the entail. The informant 
 icons don't pop up as often as the rest, but they are probably the most fun to do. Each informant 
 you speak to will ask you to perform a task for them before they give you any information, which 
 usually involves killing a number of targets without drawing any attention to yourself, yet within 
 a certain time limit. Simple in theory, but a whole lot more fun in practice. The nice thing is 
 that you don't actually have to find a viewpoint first before you can actually do those things. 
 If you happen to come across a target for pick pocketing, any of the other things, or an informant 
 you can just start them immediately.
  
  Once you've acquired enough information, it's back to the assassin bureau for a quick report, and 
 to get permission to go after the target. And then you're off to the target, whose position will 
 be handily available for you on your radar by that time. Once there, you'll be shown a small scene, 
 and then it's time to finish your mission. Of course you can't just walk up to the guy, say hi, 
 and stick your sword in his gut. You can try, but the guards will be all over you before you get 
 within 5 feet of your target. If that's really how you want to go about it, however, you're free 
 to do so. But considering how heavily guarded your targets usually are, it's going to be one hell 
 of a fight, so choosing the way of the least resistance is usually the way to go. This means finding 
 a way to get as close to your target as possible and killing whatever guards in your way, without 
 drawing any unwanted attention to yourself.
  
  When you've gotten sufficiently close to your target, it's time for the kill, which is always one 
 of the most thrilling moments in the game, partly because the actual assassination looks so cool, 
 and partly because you know you're gonna have to run as soon as your target is dead. But before 
 you get there, you're first treated to a scene in which a short conversation takes place between 
 Altair and his target, giving you more insight into the person you killed and his motivations. 
 The best thing about these little conversations are that they soon start to make you wonder about 
 the connection between your targets, and they also manage to really make you doubt whether what 
 you're doing is the right thing. Obviously it's not just the player wondering about such things, 
 as Altair will be doing exactly the same. And that's what makes the story so good, because as you 
 progress you learn more and more, but you never really get that final answer to your questions 
 until much later on. But even when you get the answer to your question on the purpose of killing 
 those people, it still isn't the absolute definitive answer. And you won't get one either, as the 
 game ends on a note obvious enough that there is supposed to be a sequel coming. Some people are 
 going to be disappointed with such an open ending, but considering that it's been made clear that 
 Assassin's Creed will span a series of games, it should be obvious that the story that accompanies 
 it will as well. In fact, in one of the interviews or previews of the game it was said that the 
 story would be told in ways of a trilogy. So it's rather unfair to fault the game in that regard.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed is a solid, complete package with plenty of content to keep you entertained for 
 15 to 20 hours for just the main quests alone. Do all the side quests, including collecting all 
 the flags, and you'll probably come closer to around 40 hours. The game does get a bit repetitive 
 at times because a lot of it revolves pretty much around the same concept of performing your task 
 without getting caught. But despite these obvious similarities between each task, they all do have 
 their unique flavor to them depending on how you approach them. For those who are real sticklers 
 about having as little repetition as possible in a game, this game might not be the choice for 
 you. But for anyone willing to look past that, and just take it for what it is, this is probably 
 going to one of the most enjoyable games you've played in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a damn fine game. There's no doubt about that; but what it isn't is the instant, 
 lasting classic that everyone expected it to be.
  
  The thing is, that whilst there's a lot of great stuff in here; there's also one hell of a lot 
 of unrealised potential. There are only five (not the prophesied three, but still not exactly a 
 huge number) of ways of obtaining information when there could've been so many more. The Kingdom 
 is also a bit of unrealised potential; maybe in the sequel we'll be able to see Altair (or whoever) 
 free-climbing up cliff-faces in there, but as it stands it's a little redundant (although on the 
 360 it's a little less redundant, given Achievements) .
  
  But! The free-running is a whole heap of great fun, the combat has great depth and entertainment 
 value (especially later on in the game when you unlock the various funky manoevres that Altair 
 can do) , and the story is interesting and understandable so long as you have your brain switch 
 to ON!
  
  So overall it's damn good, but it could've been close to perfect. Bring on the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed unfortunately, or rather, fortunately, falls into the realm of crusader history, 
 and as such, I am forced to be very strict with it, as I was with Medieval II: Kingdoms display 
 of the crusades.
  
  That out of the way, lets begin. Assassin's Creed is an action adventure game with stealth mechanics, 
 but at its core its an adventure game. You run, jump, swing, leap, dive, and do many other maneuvers 
 in order to accomplish your objectives.
  
  The objectives range from sneaking up and pickpocketing a man, to stalking and pummeling another, 
 to helping out with assassinations that your other brothers have been assigned. The objectives 
 don't really change as the game goes on, but the targets and situations do, so its never a carbon 
 copy. Towards the end of the game, people you stalk tend to go into high security areas, and more 
 than once guards would let him pass and block me, so I had to do some fast thinking improvisation 
 to get around the guards without alerting him.
  
  The main 9 targets are always fun, with interesting cutscenes that keep the story, of which I can't 
 really talk about, flowing nicely throughout.
  
  Historically, my only fault with it is that theres a high percentage of Teutonic knights at the 
 Acco (Acre, but seriously, its pronounced Acco, its israeli) docks, when in reality there was not 
 such a strong concentration. Also, templars were more common. But at any rate, Crusader Jerusalem 
 and Acco are still standing to this day, and after visiting both twice in real life, I wasn't dissapointed 
 to see how they were rendered in game. The cities were accurate to the actual cities, or rather, 
 as accurate as they could be given the confines of the game. The mosque of omar (Dome of the rock) 
 was right smack dab up on the temple mount, and the docks of Acco had the customs house thats now 
 a restaurant. 
  
  Now would be a good time to touch on the graphics. I can sum them up very easily. Gorgeous. This 
 game is visual eye candy with stunning art direction, fluidity, and style. The animations flow, 
 and after 20 hours of play I've encountered two actually errors, neither of which were game breaking. 
 Just a strange animation while falling to my death, but then again, it only happened twice, so 
 it might just have been a glitch. The cities are huge, the citizens react, and the world breaths. 
 Its a small joy to break up gatherings by stabbing an imam in the neck.
  
  The story is fun to a fault, but I can't really touch on that without giving anything away. My 
 main problem is that it starts off very vague, and, much like Bioshock, the story is trying to 
 catchup to itself for the rest of the game. But by the last 3 of 9 you have a good idea of whats 
 going on, so its not game breaking.
  
  The controls are solid, they take a bit to get used to, but once you learn to just hold down on 
 R and A, you become the worlds greatest ninja-acrobat, leaping from beam to beam to roof top, then 
 a quick tap to leap onto the guard from behind and plunge a blade into his neck.
  
  If you have any interest in games like Prince of Persia, Splinter Cell, Metal Gear Solid, or pretty 
 much if you enjoy games in general, Assassin's Creed is a good time to be had, and well worth the 
 $60 investment. Also, the value increases if you go for all the memory glitches and fulfill every 
 task in the districts of town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the long-awaited adventure game from Ubi Soft's Montreal Studio. The team behind 
 the superb Prince of Persia: Sands of Time. The setting in AC isn't too unfamiliar to PoP fans, 
 as the game takes place in the medieval Middle East in the cities of; Jerusalem, Damascus and Acre.
 
  
  Story:
  
  Certainly, story wise, not all is how it would seem, even if you've seen all the trailers for the 
 game. The game's major plot twist occurs within the first 5 minutes and after that the plot gradually 
 gets more and more convoluted. It does hold your interest throughout the game but once you're finished 
 you'll probably be saying "what the hell was the point of all that?" Basically, the story just 
 feels like a cheap gimmick to make you pay for the inevitable sequels.
  
  Graphics:
  
  As a technical showcase the game is quite incredible. Considering the size of the environments, 
 the textures are phenomenal. This is combined with an awe-inspiring level of draw-distance to really 
 create a sense of the size of the cities. At street level the sheer number of NPCs makes you feel 
 like you really are in a living breathing environment. On the other hand, apart from the character 
 you control, the character models are very poor, even for some of the more important characters 
 which you often see close-up in cut-scenes. This isn't a huge problem, but it does standout in 
 an otherwise incredibly realistic looking game.
  
  Sound design:
  
  In terms of sound AC is incredibly complex. This needs to be the case in order to properly create 
 a sense that the cities are alive and its been executed well. Push a guard off a rooftop and you'll 
 hear the pedestrians below screaming. Walk through the streets and you'll hear NPC's talking to 
 each other in the crowds.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Assassin's Creed basically plays like "Crackdown" for the medieval times.
  
  Platforming requires 
 almost no input at all from the player. Hold A and Up on the analogue stick and your character 
 will scale pretty much anything on his own. It does look visually beautiful thanks to the superb 
 animations but the satisfaction is lost by your own lack of involvement. Comparing it to Crackdown, 
 a similar open-world game, its just not as entertaining in this area.
  
  The basic mission layout in AC provides you with 9 bosses to take down with you free to choose 
 how you locate and defeat them. This is exactly the same as the core missions in Crackdown. Some 
 will say that in AC you have the choice to carry-out these missions in your own way, more like 
 a Hitman game, but you can do the same thing in Crackdown.
  
  On the other hand, the side missions in AC are very unique; involving aiding citizens of the cities 
 and gathering intel on your targets by eavesdropping or pickpocketing NPCs, or sometimes just beating 
 information from them. These missions also suffer though, in that they are extremely repetitive. 
 There are very many of them in each city but most of them ask you to the same thing over and over. 
 Its incredibly unimaginative.
  
  Finally, the game also owes the notion of "collecting flags" to Crackdown. In Crackdown you collect 
 "orbs" which are hidden throughout the city, primarily on rooftops, and these allow you to upgrade 
 your character. The only difference with the flags in AC is that they don't contribute to your 
 character's skills and abilities.
  
  Of course AC has plenty of unique and interesting things going for it as well. The combat is very 
 visceral and satisfying. Its all about timing your blows with the sword to break enemies defences 
 and then striking when the time is right. The finishing moves are brutal and really give reward 
 for your efforts. The mechanics of moving through crowds by gently pushing aside pedestrians are 
 a brilliant idea and really add to the sense of a realistic city. Also, despite the lack of control 
 in platforming, you can't deny that running accross rooftops to escape "Parkour" style is fantastic 
 to look at.
  
  Overall:
  
  Assassin's Creed is a game which owes a huge amount to others that came before it in the open-world 
 genre. Much of it is borrowed from other titles and simply re-applied to the new context of the 
 medieval setting.
  
  On the other hand, even though anyone who has played Crackdown will spot the lack of originality, 
 Assassin's Creed is still a fun game to play and, if you take into account all the side-missions, 
 its one of the longer games released recently. And of course it looks pretty stunning as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ad_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Got the game yesterday and after a few hours play im beginning to get bored. Im not saying that 
 the game is bad its just so repetative. The first couple of hours were awesome. Counter kills look 
 impressive, assissinations are awesome, the horse was cool. All in all i was pretty impressed and 
 was looking forward to getting stuck into the story. Once i had killed the first 3 targets and 
 done everything in each opening district of each city i was pretty satisfied and happy. The game 
 is deep and rich in story. I enjoy doing little side missions and working through the extra content. 
 Free running never gets boring and its fun doing different routes across the roof tops. The game 
 looks amazing. Each city has a different feel and look. The countryside however i hate. Its filled 
 with guards and if you dont walk past them you end up being chased and end up having about 10 different 
 sword battles before you reach your final location. The countryside could of been a lot better 
 I think. 
  If you want a game with a decent story and pretty good game play then id deffinetely recommend 
 you buy it but if you want something that does get boring fast pick something else or wait for 
 mass effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolysockofdoom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  You may have heard of Assassin's Creed, but nothing you read or see about it prepares you for the 
 experience. You can expect to play a great game, but be you will still be stunned by its enjoyable 
 gameplay with a twisting story and cinematic quality to it. After playing it so much, I still feel 
 bewildered by watching the moves that the character, Altair, performs.
  
  To be frank, Assassin's Creed plays great. You can read about the controls like I did, with this 
 so called "High Profile" and "Low Profile", and think what the hell is this. But in the game, it 
 makes perfect sense, and flows flawlessly. From running through town, throwing people out of your 
 way, to counter-attacking your enemies moves or jumping from rooftop to rooftop, the controls feel 
 intuitive and just right. And with Altair's actions animated beautifully, it creates quite the 
 experience. You will see Altair make grabs, jumps, rolls and thrusts that flow incredibly smoothly, 
 including on his robe. Some of the best moves I feel are when you watch your character climb up 
 the highest towers in the game, and cringe as you see him make the jump and grab that looks impossible. 
 With fun and easy controls, and a sandbox-like gameplay world but with a linear story to follow 
 (and an interesting and provocative backstory) , Assassin's Creed takes gaming to the next level 
 of an interactive experience.
  
  The graphics of the game are amazing. The textures are well done, with great character models and, 
 as previously stated, animations, especially for Altair. There are some great panoramic views from 
 the high towers, and it looks great to see the entire city surround you, with the surrounding lands 
 and mountains in view as well. Assassin's Creed really is a beautiful game, artistically done in 
 such a way that it gets the point across in a great manner. In my gaming so far, I have only run 
 into a very few graphical errors (mostly a few building textures that look to be about 20 pixels 
 too far away from each other) , and I never ran into a slowdown for the frames per second.
  
  The sound has kind of gotten to me a bit, with too many people in the cities saying the exact 
 same lines, sometimes from the same voice actor but other times its clearly two separate voice 
 actors who read the line again! The worst are the crowd-gathering propaganda speakers on the street 
 corners, because you can hear them from so far away. However, the music is great, with an inspiring 
 score, and the battle and ambient sounds are well done. Hearing pots crash to the ground, swords 
 clash and men die from the blade all sound perfect.
  
  Assassin's Creed really pulls off an experience that you would almost have thought impossible for 
 a game to do. With its engaging story, incredible gameplay and awe-inspiring graphics, the game 
 makes a package too fun to pass up on. I highly recommend buying this game to anyone with a 360 
 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffcub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  This game was the reason I bought an Xbox360. I've been watching the preview videos, suspecting 
 that it couldn't look that good in the final version - the levels couldn't be that big, or the 
 motion couldn't be that fluid. How wrong was I. It's an absolutely stunning game to play. Agreed, 
 the premise is a little shaky, and for those of you who've been on Mars, I won't spoil the plot 
 (although you have to wait about 2 minutes of gameplay before all is revealed) , but it is totally 
 immersive, and I've had to physically pull myself away from the controller from 'just another 5 
 minutes' sessions which have turned into hours. So this game made me buy a 360 - it's also going 
 to make me buy an HD TV, as my crappy old CRT is just not cutting the mustard and giving the visuals 
 the credit they deserve. 
  
  The gameplay does get repetitive, but only if you follow the 'script' - there's plenty of opportunity 
 to go your own way for a while, and explore the massive cities. Get to know the people, the landmarks, 
 and the exquisite details of the buildings. Everything just looks as though you could reach out 
 and touch it.
  
  I'm so impressed with this game. I suspect it could have been even better, but let's wait for the 
 obvious sequel in a few years, and see what they can do with it then! Just get out there and buy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seoulja_Boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE 
 TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE 
 TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE 
 TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE 
 TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE 
 TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE 
 TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE 
 TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE TOO REPETITIVE Just like this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armeniankid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Ok if u r still reading as i wrote the turn off in this game r basically i dont like how it makes 
 me wait when they talk or when i am his oldest grandson it just really annoys me!!!!!! i dont wanna 
 see a kid being watched and talkin bout pointless stuff i wanna own people! lol but i really wish 
 this game was online because if u were a team u could assasinate the people or fight other people 
 who knows but anyways those r most turn offs the whole fighting system coulda have been done better 
 but its not that bad but the good things are i like the free roam i played at my freinds house 
 and didnt exspect what i was playing i thought it would be a over rater game that just has hype 
 behind it but take my word if u like roaming games then its really fun but this my turnoffs for 
 this game the rest is great the using anything to run away is fun =) but thats my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlobalHazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed sets itself from the rest. The fundamentals of this game are superb, from the fighting 
 style, to the environment and story line. When I bought this game I knew it was going to be a good 
 one, I was expecting something different. The story was surprising and interesting and kept me 
 glued to my TV longer than I should of been.
  
  The environment is huge., If you don't watch your step when running you end up falling and meeting 
 the wrong people. The fights are great, when starting off they can be a pain, but once you play 
 for longer than 30 minutes, you can be a pro. If you are a fast thinker, you will go through this 
 like a cake in the park, when it comes to running and fighting and getting around.
  
  The story reminds me of MGS 2 Sons of Liberty, GTA 3, and other sword fighting games, the freedom 
 is well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkflip15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I keep on finding new ways to kill enemies and i almost beat the game. It seems almost every time 
 i get into a fight with a group of guards, there's always a new and gruesome kill that arises. 
 If you have the game, try fighting with the hidden blade; while its kinda tough and gets a little 
 getting used to, it is soooo satisfying. There were a few minor visual glitches but nothing to 
 complain about too much. The story was immersive although it didn't make much sense in the end 
 (better be another) . All in all, i enjoyed it a great deal. Fantastic game. I'm really glad i picked 
 this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whatsit2u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed starts off in a somewhat unexpected way. You begin playing as a character named 
 Desmond Miles, who has been kidnapped by a somewhat odd and mysterious corporation. All they ask 
 of you is that you step into the Animus machine to go back in time and learn something from your 
 ancestors. The game is really composed of two stories, the first being set in the future, where 
 you play Desmond, and the second where you are playing in the past as Desmond's assassin ancestor, 
 Altair. 
  
  Once you make your first trip back into time, you get a small amount of time to experience all 
 the cool weapons and abilities you have. Due to a mission that went awry though, you soon lose 
 all of this, and start anew. As soon as you receive some weapons in the past, you will want to 
 stay there forever, but the scientists in the future will remove you from the machine, and this 
 can sometimes become a minor annoyance when the action is getting intense. 
  
  The controls are not at all difficult to master, being pretty simple. The game appeals to people 
 of all playing styles. When sent on an assassination mission, you can slaughter all the soldiers, 
 or silently sneak your way around assassinating as many or as few people as you wish. 
  
  The combat in the game is actually pretty interesting. You can swing away by simply pressing X, 
 grab an enemy and throw him (even off of roofs) , parry attacks, counter attack, and combo attack. 
 All these attacks will last you for hours. You receive throwing knives, a sword, a short sword, 
 and your assassin blade. In the counter attacks, which are somewhat easier to master than combo 
 attacks, you see about 20 counter attack moves for the swords, almost 10-15 for the short sword, 
 and you can use your throwing knives interestingly in these attacks. Right now, it is unknown to 
 me how many different cinematic attacks there are for combos, because the timing on these moves 
 are harder to master. You can also use your assassin blade in these fights, and it comes with its 
 own set of cinematics. The cinematics for each weapon are spread out between each other enough, 
 so that seeing them never seems to become uninteresting. 
  
  The mission types in the game lack variety, but are still fun in the over-all game. 
  
  This 
 game is definitely hyped up to be, and will please players of all playing styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Another HUGELY Awaited game here, Assassins creed, you are a Assasin in older times and that's 
 pretty much all that people needed to here before they looked it up and got hooked and soooo excited 
 to play it.
  
  Story-
  Sorry, not telling any story here, because a big twist happens at the very beggining.
  
  Gameplay-
 
  Awesome, just awesome, you have a set storyline to complete, but it's just so incredibly fun to 
 run around towns and push people and assassinate random people and then try to escape the guards 
 by running out of their site or jumping into a hay stack, or in a roof garden etc. Some missions 
 get repetitive but not really enough to make it unenjoyable, just a bit less enjoyable. 
  
  There isn't really much more to say that should make you go get this, it's a good buy, but you 
 could get through most of it with a rent. If you just wanna run around freely and mess with people 
 all the time, then go ahead with a buy though haha. The Story starts out slow but picks up with 
 momentum very soon so go ahead, what are you waiting for........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYGamer164
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Coming into 2007 Assassin's Creed was one of the most hyped game and the game definitely lives 
 up to it. With all the shooters on the 360 its very nice to see something different that actually 
 succeeds at it. One of the many positives in this game are the huge and like life cites. Every 
 person in the city is unique and the cites themselves are gorgeous. Running and jumping on rooftops 
 are very fun. In this game you have a choice of either being sleathy or going inguns blazing" 
 and both of them are very good. The controls are very unique, which is also a good thing, it takes 
 some getting used to, but once you do there is a lot of fun to be had. All in all this a great 
 game and a must pick-up. GO BUY THIS GAME NOW! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casey_mcqueen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype surrounding this game, I had a sense it might be a let-down; however, it turned 
 out to be a very enjoyable and entertaining game.
  
  After you get past the long intro setting up the complex story line, you finally gain control of 
 your assassin, Altair. Of course the first thing you realize about the game is the amazing graphics, 
 the second thing you'll realize is the sharp realism the game puts forth. Literally hundreds of 
 citizens, guards, beggars, and other people line the streets of the HUGE cities of Jerusalem, Acre, 
 and Damascas. The interactivity of the game is one of the key features which make it a great game; 
 likewise, another feature that makes this truly next-gen are the little things that really stand 
 out such as being able to move around during cut scenes and when walking away from a crime, hearing 
 a guard yell out:" Who did this, show yourself!" It's honestly an experience no true gamer should 
 go without.
  
  Like all other games, this game too has its faults. Perhaps the greatest one would be the repetitiveness 
 of the mission structure which didn't bother me, but would bother many gamers. Another problem 
 that occurred at times was bad camera angles during combat. Although these problems exist, they 
 really don't stand out when looking at the game as a whole.
  
  The story of the game is remarkable, holding great originality and interest. I highly look forward 
 to playing the next installment in this awesome new series.
  
  Play it, I promise you'll smile when you commit your first assassination! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrall-3-20
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I fully played and beat this game, and I have to say its amazing. Theres so many character animations, 
 and they all flow perfectly. The combat looks amazingly realistic, and is pretty fun. Some people 
 seem to have trouble with doing combo's, but it's really simple. All you do is hit X just as your 
 attack hits, and keep doing that and you combo, and finish them with a fancy attack.
  
  Voice acting is good, but Altair (Main character) is probably the worst voice actor in the game. 
 I'm not saying it's bad, just not as good as the rest.
  
  Story is nice, engaging, though confusing at times, but you can just read up on the internet to 
 clarify anything you don't understand.
  
  Worst thing about this game: "Co-Op Glitch." The co-op glitch happens in "Memory/chapter 6" where 
 you can fall through the ground, and when you restart at your checkpoint, theres 2 of you, and 
 cutscenes wont work. To fix this though, just unplug all your controlers but one, and unplug the 
 internet from your 360, and it should work out. 
  
  But yes, this game is amazing, huge towns to run and jump around in, a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I had to edit my review after completing the game, because, it's even more stupid than when I was 
 half way through it.
  
  This game is kind of a cross between Grand Theft Auto and Spider-Man games. It sort of has an open 
 world, although much of it isn't available to you until the end of the game, but it's okay, because 
 there isn't anything to do but repetitive, mind-numbing, and extremely stupid side missions. You 
 can skip some but the main missions in each town requires you to do several. Boring, I'd like to 
 emphasize boring... because of how totally annoyed I am with this game. It's so boring, it's like 
 talking to your Mom about bowel movements. It's so boring that it's like having to watch your little 
 sister in a school play at elementary school. It's really really boring. Imagine that your girlfriend 
 dropped a hundred onions in front of you and said, chop them all the same way. That's what Assassin's 
 Creed is all about.
  
  The world is ridiculously huge, but pointless. There is no reason to even go to 90% of it. It all 
 looks the same, all the people do the same thing, and the missions are all the same. There is something 
 you can do in the gigantic world of repetition... collect lots and lots of flags! Oh boy! As soon 
 as I realized how every town is exactly the same, I forgot about the flags because all they meant 
 were achievment points, and only 10, so that was stupid to me. 
  
  Next, you are supposed to be an assassin, but forget about stealth. It's an advanced hack and slash 
 game with an annoying targetting system, and hope that you are in an open area when you are fighting 
 3+ guards. By the way, it's always guards, always. Unless you botched a a joke of pickpocketting 
 job (you can only pickpocket chosen characters for knives) , it's guards. This is the only thing 
 I enjoyed about the game because the fighting gameplay is pretty decent. Still though it gets really 
 boring after a few hours, it's especially annoying because most of the time you didn't even want 
 to fight. There isn't much of a way to stealthfully kill a person because every city and area takes 
 place during the day. Even if you travel for hours and hours it's still daytime. Which wouldn't 
 be a big deal if they didn't call this Assassin's Creed. It should be Samurai Creed. Because it 
 feels like watching an old samurai movie when playing. You're ONLY satisfaction of killing someone 
 without any one knowing instantly, is on the rooftops and you have to be lucky. Almost every situation 
 where you kill someone winds up with 3-5 guards who all do the same moves, say the same things, 
 and die the same way.
  
  So basically the open world and the idea of an assassin has completely shed itself from the game 
 within two hours of playing. What you wind up with is a huge but unnessesary world that looks breathtaking, 
 while the gameplay is good at first, it gets boring after an hour or two. In every town you will 
 save a citizen, eavesdrop, interrogate (this is in between the 6-12 viewpoint climbs that reveal 
 the map locations of every side missions which is also very annoying) , or pickpocket. Later on 
 you'll have to get some flags within the alotted time, or assassinate some schmucks without alerting 
 guards which can be WAY too annoying to even want to do over and over because if you fail you are 
 punished with the same dialogue that you can not skip, and it is very easy to fail. As if the side 
 missions aren't annoying, the main missions are just as bad, same basic elements, you go to a town, 
 talk to the guy affiliated with your creed, do a few annoying side missions, then you get to go 
 watch the bad guy kill a person (almost everytime) , in some fashion then wander off. After that 
 you have to get by lots of guards, if you want to try and assassinate the main bad guy, good luck. 
 It's close to impossible for most of them. They will most likely see you before you can ever get 
 close enough to attack. Every so called boss (who are the same as guards, no special moves but 
 more annoying because usually they run through the city so you can fight more guards) , is the same 
 as the next one. 
  
  The story might have been interesting but I couldn't follow it because it was really anoying to 
 listen to them talk to each other. The "Assassin" you play as has a voice that is gutwrenching. 
 He sounds like a monotone snob, he's completely annoying. That's your Assassin?! Say it ain't so. 
 It's okay though because the end of the story doesn't give you any satisfaction, it makes no sense, 
 and it's very frustrating. Finally leaving you with this feeling that you shouldn't have even played 
 the game at all, there is no meaning, no moral, nothing of interest, and very typical. It's kind 
 of a Matrix style story with two annoying people running the machine. In between the guts of the 
 game, you are taken out of the game world and brought into "reality" where you can listen to an 
 old man whine, and a girl obviously take your side. When walking around in this part of the game 
 that's all you do. Walk and listen to the other main characters. There is a part where you take 
 a couple of pens... but nothing ever comes of it. Also these two characters have a computer, which 
 you can just read their email and figure out whats going on but you can't do anything else but 
 go to sleep. That is if you can place your character in the right spot to hit the button that allows 
 him to interact... you may have to walk back and forth until it pops up on the screen.
  
  While this game is mostly nonsense, it does have good graphics and gameplay. You do get some enjoyment 
 out of running across rooftops and climbing towers, and killing people. Once that cool factor goes 
 away, you realize it is definitely not an assassin game, because you don't ever assassinate anyone. 
 You'll run in or climb in trying but wind up being seen and you murder them all and the whole town 
 knows, it really isn't much of an open world game either until you complete it... but then there 
 really isn't anything to do but collect flags and kill people. The best parts of Assassin's Creed 
 is near the end when you have all the weapons and moves available to you, but it's because it actually 
 has some scripted events. The fighting parts of the game really feel like watching an old Samurai 
 movie, where the main Samurai sits patiently waiting for an attack, and then pulling some amazing 
 counter in the midst of twenty or thirty foes. 
  
  In the end, it's not a 9.0 game, it's not worth 60$, it's not what it says it is. It's just a really 
 pretty world with nice controls. After that it's no fun anymore. Unless you don't mind just running 
 across rooftops, killing people, and wandering around a totally unnessesarily huge world like most 
 of these people who rated it 9 and 10. 
  
  It's a mindless, meaningless, repetitive game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke056
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have for the PS3 and the Xbox360. It offers a a beautiful and unique experience 
 to all. Great game play, outstanding scenery and much more. There's very little fault to find Assassins 
 Creed and if you do find one, its very forgivable. Ubisoft has extended the idea on PoP to a whole 
 new level. Only those who purposely despise it will never appreciate it. It lets you go into the 
 shoes of an assassin. Interrogation, Pickpocketing, Eavesdropping is all in a days work for an 
 assassin. All of it is fun including the vantage points. It gives you a stunning and unique perspective 
 of your surroundings. The fighting is brilliant and realistic, unlike its predecessors. You cant 
 be hit 100 times and still stand. All it takes is 3 hits to die. That's an assassin for you. Altair 
 himself and the city is very detailed, even to their shadows! You can pinpoint cracks and crevices 
 in the buildings and even dirt in Altair's robe. It has exceeded my expectations. So, what are 
 you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglesviper_90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what anyone else says, on November 13th, when the first copy of Assassin's Creed was 
 sold, the way that games should be made changed.
  
  This game, in my opinion, is amazing. It's easy, yet complicated. It's dull, yet exciting. 
  
 
  I'm not going to lie to you, this game does get very repetitive.. but so do racing games. This 
 game is all about assassinating, fighting, and then getting the hell away from the 30 guys that 
 are chasing you. It is not a bad repetitive.
  
  The fighting is amazing, even though it's one button combat. It seems easy, and the controls makes 
 it feel easy, but you have to be able to read your enemy and see when they are going to strike. 
 By improving on this, only then will you become more deadly with your blade. So it's true that 
 it's only one button combat and one button counters (that look frickin' sweet, and i can't stop 
 myself from yelling at the game because it's so sick, and then I feel it necessary to act out what 
 Altair just did) , but Ubisoft does it well. They give you a chance to be a master assassin by making 
 it a bit easier to control Altair, but you still have to pay attention, especially when you're 
 fighting templars.
  
  As for the evading, I think it's great. The free run allows you to focus on where you want to go 
 and where you want to hide instead of performing un-performable tasks by pressing A everytime you 
 wanted to jump, then hold B to hold on to the pole, plus you have to judge the pressure you have 
 to put on the buttons....
  
  Yikes, it can get confusing.
  
  But Assassin's Creed makes it simple, yet still challenging.
  
  So to all of those people who 
 game it bad reviews- you're taking the game to seriously. This game should take you way longer 
 than 15 hours to beat. Enjoy yourself, walk around and look at the scenery (appreciate the game 
 and don't sprint everywhere) , go and find all the flags, try different things. Just have fun with 
 it. Reviewers now-a-days forget how to have fun, and I think that it's time for us, the gamers, 
 to just forget about all the the technical stuff and what COULD have been done to make it better. 
 They hyped it up so much that no game would have been able to live up to it's expectations.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a solid game. Enjoy it for what it is. Embrace it, take your time, and 
 I'm sure you'll love it.
  
  Honestly, don't listen to any reviewers, good or bad. Go out and try this game for yourself. Good 
 luck, and have fun with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HKBrad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  If only they had held this back 6 months....
  
  So, I like Assassin's Creed. The game engine is fantastic. Very few game experiences have been 
 as cool as free running with your assassin through the streets of medieval Jerusalem. Not only 
 is that system awesome, it's pretty cool to look over and see the Dome of the Rock, or other historic 
 landmarks. The story line is also fresh, adding to the immersive experience. So, the graphics, 
 the controls and the immersive experience all add up to one of the most interesting titles I've 
 seen in a long time. Just running around is actually a lot of fun.
  
  But, they forgot to finish the game. It seems like they spent so much time on the engine that they 
 ran out of time for the game. The missions in theory are cool in that they build and form an interesting 
 story line. But, as you've probably heard, they are all the same. The developers should have spent 
 a bit more time to but some variety into the mission set - now there are only 5 basic missions 
 (help a citizen, pickpocket, listen in, interrogate, do a favor) . Honestly, if they had just gotten 
 it up to 10, they would double the mission set and allow for some variety. As for NPC interactions, 
 there basically are none. 
  
  In the end, this is still a fun gaming experience, but it does make you wish the developers had 
 spent some time playing Oblivion and noticing that mission variety makes a big difference. This 
 is a title that you're really going to have to enjoy the ride and stop and smell the digital roses 
 - otherwise you're going to hate it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chik_magnet_08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow ! As soon as you start the game off things become interesting. I mean at first its boring. 
 But once the tutorial is done then the fun begins. I'm actually still in the beginning because 
 I'm having sooo much fun just jumping around. Probably one of my favorite games i own. I would 
 say forget renting, just go straight to the store and buy it. This Game is off the hook. I even 
 bought the game guide and art book. The Game is Absolutely phenomenal. And worth all the money. 
 I spent my money i got for my birthday on this one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos030401
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The best assassin game yet, I don't think it will get beat for a long time. people need to make 
 more games like this one. I just can't wait for kingdom under fire to come out because it just 
 may give this a run for its money but even so this game is a must have. Assassins Creed is the 
 best action RPG assassin game of the year hands down I love everything this game has to offer and 
 I can't wait until part 2 comes out. The one thing i love the most about Assassins Creed is the 
 sword fighting and the blood. I also like how you are like a Rogue Assassin, You can just kill 
 at will and walk anywhere in the game and I love the fact that is had a Sci-fi twist. I play it 
 on the Xbox 360 Elite and a 42" HDTV so i see it for it truely is a thing of beauty.
  
  Thank you
  Kratos030401
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say perfect blend of stealth and action and i like the way you are more involved 
 with how you control the character. the controls feel exacly right. the graphics are amazing. and 
 the living breathing world that ubisoft has created is utterly brilliant. combat is a bit tricky 
 i found though as i play the game more and more the combat is obviously getting easier and easier 
 but the enemies are quite tricky especially when they attack in large numbers i find the difficulty 
 pitched just right. the stealth is an option you can do or not you can play as a mad man and kill 
 everythin in sight but you won't get far stealth is a mixture of careful planning and observing 
 your surroundings from rooftops or walking around the streets i find best done on the roofs less 
 chance of getting attention to yourself in a nut shell just buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emm333
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I've only played this for about 5-7 hours, but I'm though enough missions and objectives to see 
 what I have. It's a GTA style game were criminal actions have been replaced with self/clan-righteous 
 intentions and the grit has been replaced by religion and technology: sources of faith or belief 
 in our past and our future. Love the amount of detail and depth of the free-running system, I just 
 can't get past overly sensitive controls, graphic glitches, and a game design that looks like it 
 incorporate its glitches and flaws into the storyline and gameplay in order to compensate for problems 
 in engineering and programming it. A great attempt, but a few years too early and on consoles that 
 have not been fully fleshed out technologically. I wonder how a PC version would do? Probably still 
 too early. Ambitious, majestic, even even great at times, but ultimately a flawed game with too 
 many of its imperfections showing.
  
  Plus, I swear I know more about this being produced by Jade Raymond then I know about the game 
 itself. Ubisoft: Jade is a fine marketing tool and so are your Frag Dolls, but please make more 
 technologically stable/sound games with all those dollars you pump into advertising and parading 
 your producer around. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Hype has once again created this cloud of lies about a game being better than it is. I have been 
 waiting for assassin's creed since i first saw the video of Altair jumping in the air and running 
 the crusader through with his wrist blade. Sadly thats as exciting as this game gets.
  Basically the story goes you're an elite assassin and theres some bad men that need to be killed, 
 without giving away any spoilers. The process you'll find these men is the same every time. Locate 
 a high point, rough up/pick pocket some guy, then kill your target. 
  Side missions are a complete waste of time considering all you get are some guys who hold guards 
 in place or chanting monks who look like you. The side missions arent varied at all either. Either 
 guards are harassing some guy or attempting to rape some woman. If you choose not to do anything 
 fear not, because there are no consequences to doing nothing. They'll still be there making idle 
 threats and just pushing around the person. Other diversions from the brief story are finding all 
 the high points so you can find more people to save, which again serve almost no purpose other 
 than filler content or fetching flags.
  The voice acting in this game is ok at best. Most of the characters voiced in this game fit their 
 role with the exception of Altair. He sounds like he just walked off the set of a Power Rangers 
 show with a performance so hollow, its extremely easy to tell hes just reading a script.
  You might be saying, Well what about the story, amazing graphics, and intense game play!?" Well 
 i didnt really care for the story too much with the whole youre in the future but you travel to 
 the past through the memories stored in your genes schtick. The game play is lackluster at best. 
 Guards are easily dispatched as soon as you get the counter move, making the dodge mechanic worthless. 
 Why dodge when you can score a one shot kill or knock the guy on his back and slash the hell out 
 of him? Speaking of guards theyre just programmed strangely. Youre supposed to be the best assassin 
 in your part of the world and yet with all those years of training, guards wearing iron armor can 
 leap and run just as fast as you being some common peasant in a tin can. Some how they make the 
 connection that if you fall from a rooftop youre an assassin as opposed to asking, "are you alright?" 
 They even let beggars wail on you but if you strike back youre an assassin.
  This game had so many chances to be great but is weighed down by its own redundancy and wasted 
 opportunities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimnet00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I really don't understand how a great deal of websites have given Assasin's Creed, such a undeserving 
 low score. I could, to an extent, understand an 8.0, but anything less then that just boggles my 
 mind.
  
  Story
  The story in this game was fantastic. It weaves historical fact with fictional elements, to create 
 a very believable retelling of the 1100s. Then you mix in the Scifi element to it, it creates a 
 story, which is amongst one of the best in any game. Now, I don't want to spoil it, but rest assured, 
 it is beutifully written -- and masterfully crafted into the seemless cutscenes. This coupled with 
 the fact, that while this game has it's own self-containing full story. It is also part 1 of 3, 
 in what will eventually be a trilogy. 
  
  The references used in this game are too many to number, but I do suggest everyone to check out 
 CVG's blog entry after they beat the game: http://www. computerandvideogames. com/article. php? id=175552&site=xbw
 
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is just wonderful. It is like Splinter Cell meets Price of Persia. The missions are 
 vast in number, and do not get dull in the least. Now, on the contrar, many of these crap reviews 
 claim that the gameplay is "overly repeatitive". First of all, it really isn't... unless you skipped 
 through the game, only doing all the bare minimal required tasks needed to advance the story. I 
 agree with Penny Arcade, where they make this very accusation, and I stand with them. Whoever gave 
 this game a low score, did not give it the intimate time it deserved. If you rush this game, and 
 don't saver the atmosphere... sure, you will be disappointed, as you rightfully should be. I do 
 imagine though, that any paying customer, who buys this game will do just that.
  
  Sound
  Right where it should be
  
  Graphics
  The best in it's class. 
  
  I decided to leave 
 this review fairly short. Simply because I wanted to expand upon Gamespot's review. Everything 
 else is very well written in theirs, and I agree with them completly on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wifout_teef
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing, much more than I thought it would be.
  
  Graphics: No matter where you go in this game, the graphics are top notch and never cease amazing 
 me. You'll see shadows from 99% of the objects in the game, amazing bloom effects, just the right 
 amount of blood, and much more. Also the draw distance is just amazing, you can go on a hill and 
 see an entire city without any of the buildings disappearing when you back up.
  
  Sound: The sound makes me feel like I'm really there. Each person has a unique voice and the voice 
 acting is superb. I love the sounds of blades clashing against each other. Also the sounds when 
 you assassinate someone are awesome. The only sound flaw that I've noticed are that the beggars 
 sound like they are talking into a mic.
  
  Story: Surprisingly, this free roaming game's story is not bad. Though most of it I can't give 
 away. What I can say is that you have to assassinate 9 people promoting the crusades throughout 
 Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem. All of these people are unique and likable/unlikable in their own 
 ways. Oh yeah and you play as Altair, master assassin who is probably the best original character 
 of the year.
  
  Gameplay: This is what really makes me love the game. The combat is simple yet extremely satisfying 
 and addicting. You can either be in a defensive stance and counterattack people with brutal moves 
 or you can try to break an enemy's defense and kill him. You can also climb any building you see 
 by grabbing onto ledges, windows, etc. This is very fluid and is easy to learn how to do. Finally 
 comes the stealth aspect. This is no Splintercell game where you hide in shadows and any person 
 who sees you starts attacking you. You hide in the crowds instead and become a blade in the crowd. 
 You can get past guards this way without them suspecting a thing.
  
  Replay Value: Didn't one of the producers for this game say there were hundreds of side missions? 
 Well whoever said that is right. There are 60 extra assassinations, tons of rescue missions, etc. 
 DLC would be nice though.
  
  Summary: This is one of my favorite games of the year and is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuey-griffin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is game of the year potential and what really makes it good is the obvious care and attention 
 that has gone into creating the world altair inhabits you can easily spend hours if not days playing. 
 Another thing i like is that the 9 men altair has to kill did indeed die and or dissappear in the 
 time the game is set. This helps make the story that little but more belieable and helps get drawn 
 in to altairs world. Unlike some action games this is a game that has a heavy story line to back 
 up the gameplay. One criticism i will be mentioning is the vioce acting for altair compared to 
 the other characters (whose vioces are top notch) altairs sounds disticntly american and this can 
 draw you away from the story. However through the combination of exellent gameplay and even better 
 graphics in my opinion assassins creed is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok Ive been waiting for this game for a very long time like many others. I put it in and I like 
 it a little but I started to get into and I enjoyed it. The Graphics are really good not the best 
 but its way up there. This game is super diffrent from other games other than the prince of persia 
 on walls and stuff of that nature. The combat is really good theres alot of ways to take out your 
 target. There are some really cool weapons . The controls are pretty easy to get use to. 
  
  The game is kinda gets boring a little in the story because your doing the same thing you find 
 intel that takes a while to find them and then you watch and listen to them or pickpocket them 
 or even interogate them. Then you take out your target then you get a weapon and ability. And it 
 starts over so..... The main thing they need is something a little more for the game other than 
 doing the same thing. This game is a good rental even buy thats up to you dont misunderstand me 
 its fun but it needed a little more for the time it took 4 yrs. But over all rent it and if you 
 dont have xboxlive this is what you've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckKoto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The game takes its time letting you learn how to use the different combos, how to climb walls and 
 the such, and how to use all the different weapons at your disposal. If you forget one of the few 
 combos then just go to the practice arena and get that back in your head. 
  It feels really realistic also. When climbing, if it doesn't look like something you can grab onto, 
 you most likely cant, but most buildings have stones, windows, cracks and so on to get you up to 
 where you want to go. Getting on top of some of the highest structures can give you an amazing 
 view of the huge cities you play in.
  Having an interactive cinematic also helps make this game fun, being able to walk around or change 
 the view actually helps you pay more attention to.
  The best part for me would be the assassinations and the fights you can get into. It always feels 
 amazing to see you run up and kill your target with that hidden blade and then have to run from 
 practically every guard in the city.
  
  This game is an instant classic in my eyes and its sure to amaze you. 
  Don't believe the people 
 giving this game low ratings because of the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozzi07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well i gota be honest ive read a few bad reviews about this game before it was Relased which kinda 
 i mean kinda threw me off. I got the game put it in my X-box and it blew me away. The Story is 
 superb im not going to give anything away but its leaves everything open. And Everything else ties 
 in.
  
  Gameplay is split into to Combat And Movement. Combat is Repatative yet fun and why not repeat 
 something that is fun?? Its not the combat that really stands out but the whole way of controlling 
 Altiar, you can jump buildings with ease, jump from roof to roof or just simply blend in with your 
 surrondings. Climbimg has to be the best part about this game. Its so easy yet effective. I havnt 
 seen a game that has pulled this off or even got a close to the real thing then "Assassins".
  
  The truly amazing this are the graphics animations and the whole world you are left to play 
 in. The graphics are superb the make he most of the next gen tecnology and the animations are top 
 drawn and youll begin to take them for granted as you watch Altiar smoothly move around the living 
 world.
  
  Well if you really want to experience this buy the game im 100% sure you will enjoy it 
  
  
 Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiBob
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, and I have to say this is probably the first game I have ever wanted to 
 review because I enjoyed it so much.
  
  So to begin, we'll talk about the story, since that seems to be what has everyone up in arms.
 
  
  The story starts out with Desmond Miles, a simple bartender plucked out of his home and strapped 
 into a machine called Animus. The Animus can read the genetic memories of a subject, allowing the 
 subject to review those memories as if they were his own, in a 3-Dimensional view with an Avatarian 
 construct. Admittedly, there are some petty details and plot holes involved in this, but what game 
 doesn't have those? Moving on, you have two other characters you readily talk to as Desmond Miles. 
 The Doctor, Vidic, who is a total louse and jerk when it comes to you, though he freely admits 
 this, considering what they plan for Desmond anyway. The other is Lucy, voiced by Kristen Bell, 
 who is almost more engimatic than the doctor even though you actually have more conversations with 
 her than anyone else outside of memories. As far as the memory portions of storyline goes, it starts 
 out with Altair, Master Assassin, basicly being a complete and utter douche about the Creed (Stay 
 your blade, Be discreet, Never bring harm to the Brotherhood) . So in the first chapter, he manages 
 to break all 3 parts of the Creed, forcing his Master to strip him of rank, weapons, and abilities 
 (how they strip someone of an ability such as dodge or sword parry I have no idea) . He starts out 
 as a novice to relearn how to obey the Creed. From here on comes the most in-depth character building 
 I have ever seen in a game. Altair starts out as a dick, but as he learns more and more, retraining 
 his abilities and gaining knowledge about his targets and what it truly means to be a Hashashin. 
 I don't wanna give too much away, but know that the story inside the Animus is beyond well-done, 
 even if the parts outside the Animus are lacking (they are more like plot points for Part 2 instead 
 of being anything useful as Altair) . Needless to say, even if you just rent the game, I recommend 
 giving it a try for the story alone, especially if you love the history of the Crusades.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The controls are super smooth, and I never felt overwhelmed by something that needed 
 to be done with an extra finger (so many games are having you look around, move, AND hit X, Y, 
 B, or A. I ran out of extra fingers when I evolved from an Amoeba, thanks) . As said in the Gamespot 
 review, it's true about moving from rooftop to rooftop and climbing walls: it never felt as if 
 things were put there so you had an escape or a way to get up. Everything seemed organic in the 
 architecture and it really did feel like you were climbing things because they were there, not 
 because they wanted to you to be able to climb. Admittedly, some of the side quests are a little 
 contrived (why offer a time limit on assassinations, it seems silly to me, and WTF is with the 
 flags?) , but all in all, I found them fun and challenging, not to mention they really assisted 
 in learning how to play. 
  
  Visuals and AI
  
  The graphics, animations and AI are the best I have ever seen on a game, Halo 3 and Gears of War 
 included. The realism of the characters, the fluid animations, even how people reacted to solid 
 objects in their paths; it all seemed accurate and well done. You can really tell they wanted the 
 world to feel natural and real, even if some of the guards AI was a little poor (climbing around 
 a corner. 'Hey, you're not supposed to be here!' Inch back around the corner, and the guard goes 
 back to his business) . There is very little investigative work to be seen by the guards except 
 when they are chasing you, and even then, I would have enjoyed seeing them poke at haystacks as 
 they passed, look into the gardens on the roofs, or stare a little closely when seated on a bench. 
 Something to actually give you a moment of panic when you're trying to get into hiding. All in 
 all though, the joy of running through the streets to get away is almost as good as the thrill 
 of the chase for the removal of a mark. To top off my review of the visuals, I have to give this 
 game a great review on the shadows alone. Yes, some of the shadows get bad at times (like when 
 a character's head is casting a shadow on his chest, it just seems, I don't know, off) , but those 
 are the only real times I noticed an issue. The standout moment of shadows is when I was on a rooftop, 
 and I was scanning the ground below for a mark. I caught my shadow at the top of a roof's shadow, 
 JUST LIKE real life. I had yet to see a game do that properly. And in a place where a person casts 
 no shadow to begin with, such as being in a shadow already, no one casts one. It's a wonderfully 
 realistic effect, and it went a long way to helping immerse you in the game world. Not to mention 
 the great expanses of the cities just begging you to climb to the tallest points for the view.
 
  
  Endgame
  
  I have already beaten the game, and I did all the side quests (though I still need achievements) , 
 and I would say I probably did it in under 40 hours. Don't think I didn't enjoy myself incessantly 
 though. I can't wait to play through the game again, and I will probably be able to do it quite 
 a few times in a row, let alone down the road. None of the game felt repetitive to me (at least 
 the non-Informer quests) , and the story made it entirely worthwhile to me. It's just gonna suck 
 waiting for Part 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicodin4urPAIN
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics = 9
  Gameplay = 6
  Sound = 2
  Story = 7
  Overall = 6
  
  Wow, what can i say. Are there really that many gamers out there that like this game? We should 
 all expect more out of our games then just a pretty exterior. I could get into all the flaws of 
 this game but i would be sitting here much longer then i want to. All i have to say is that make 
 sure you rent this before you buy it. If you like to repeat things over and over and you like to 
 hear people say the same things over and over then this game is for you. I know that Call of Duty 
 4 is a first person shooter. But if you want to see what i rate a 9 or 10, then go take a look 
 at that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  
  Purrrrdy and well-oiled. This game definately takes home that prize: finaly a next-gen game that 
 not only looks the part and 'hasn't been rushed to the shelves. The models, the architecture, the 
 moves, the audio: this game really sets a standard for craftsmanship.
  
  The gameplay, however, gets dull in a hurry. If this game wasn't as slick as it is, I doubt it'd 
 be getting the ratings it's raking up. If you look past the glitter, there's actually little gold 
 underneath. The missions are set up pretty much the same way every time, with a very limited number 
 of preset actions leading to the climax (pickpocket, eavesdrop or run an errant) . This basically 
 leads you to a bad guy who needs to be killed. After that, rinse and repeat. This game lacks the 
 mini-games or the sense of exploration that GTA has and the story-elements are too scattered and 
 generic to draw you in like Splinter Cell did. 
  Combat looks sexy, but really is quite awkward to pull off right, especially when dealing with 
 larger mobs. The camera has a tendency to duck behing scenery and it's quite difficult to select 
 the right opponent in a split-second, often losing you your chance to counter-attack in time (resulting 
 in you getting clobbered, of course :) ) .
  
  So, does this game suck? No, not at all. It's right up there with the best of them. But the reviews 
 on this game are too much about the looks and not enough about the actual gameplay. Pretty much 
 like the reviews for the first X360 games. Here's a game that is fun to play, cool to watch but 
 really needs a lot more depth to take away the '9', where I'm concerned.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haza1995
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  this is simply the best game i have ever played. there is so much to do in this game and it jus 
 never gets boring. its really exiting and adreniling pumping i couls literally play it all day. 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Stunning, also how well the cities are done. Assassin's Creed is sure to push your system 
 (Again) to it's limits....
  
  Sound: Music is very authentic, and voice acting is superb, and convincing. 
  
  Replay Value: 
 Downloadable content could be a possibility. But again even with no multiplayer or Co-op the game 
 is open ended, so the second time you play it, it's sure to be a whole different experience. 
 
  
  Game Play: You are a Assassinand your job is to kill people. Simple enough?
  Don't forget you can pickpocket unwary bums and even eavesdrop on the latest goissps. You have 
 a varity of Weapon, the hidden Blade (you primary weapon for assassinations) a long Bladed sword 
 in case it gets too hot, and a couple of throwing knifes and a crossbow. (and lots more) But hey 
 your an assassin so you gotta do it all cool and bond style. (No put away your Night vision goggle, 
 your not Sam Fisher in here) Instead, AC has a very interactive and breathing crowd! The people 
 (I know hiding among peasants is not your thing but hey!) If not you can scale the roofs of the 
 city, and even hide in Hay carts or pretend your a monk and wander the streets, who would suspect 
 a monk? Anywho the game is really an enjoyable experience, so please buy this game....
  
  Summary: If you're looking for an awesome Action Adventure game Assassin's Creed is for you!!! 
 Now go on, unleash your inner killer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberpwner93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game has everything and more. I thought it was just gonna be a run of the mill adventure game, 
 hell was I wrong. When I first started playing, I thought, crap, it sucks, but i was wrong. Between 
 the awesome acrobatics, and combat, I thought I was In heaven. Seriously the best game I've played 
 to date. No game will ever beat this game in the gameplay field, great controls, amazing graphics, 
 makes for an awesome game. I feel this is a game for everyone, even the FPS guys, and people who 
 are new to video games, this is a perfect beginners game because it show all that gaming has to 
 offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  So I heard about this game a long time ago, and I have been fallowing it ever since. Might I also 
 add I was also THE FIRST PERSON to own it in the city I am going to college at. But time to get 
 to the game...
  
  I didn't want to give it a review until I beat it, but since I did not bring my 360 home with me 
 to instead write my paper I will review it with about 1/3 of the game done.
  
  The graphics are jaw dropping, and I am talking about in game graphics not cinamatics. And even 
 though you do do the same thing it feels over and over again I am still addicted to doing them, 
 so no I do not believe it is repetitive. That is like saying robbing cars in GTA gets repetitive. 
 The story is interesting so far, might I add I almost cried when I found out what the game was 
 really about (out of sadness not happiness) but the story seems to be pretty fun anywho.
  
  Gameplay is extremely easy up to the point I am at. Everything you need to do is put on the map, 
 time challenges give you more than enough time, your life replenishes very quickly, and fighting 
 off dozens of people is way to easy... but since I was paranoid the game was going to be overly 
 painful to play because of the difficulty I am content with the easiness.
  
  All in all it is a fun game, you can run around on the roofs, and assassinate some higher ups. 
 So go ahead and buy this game... just watch out for Mass Effect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Sometimes, a game's promise is far far greater than it's execution.
  
  
  
  No pun intended, but in Ubisoft's new game Assassin's Creed, that execution is somewhat disappointing. 
 In a lot of ways, Assassin's Creed is a whole lot of fun if you can take it for what it is, but 
 exactly what this game IS can be somewhat hard to define. 
  
  Story-wise, Assassin's Creed is a relatively strong game. You'll play as Desmond Miles, a former 
 assassin in the modern day who has since gone legit., becoming a bartender and leaving behind his 
 past. That is, until he's abducted by a pair of scientists whose work is concerned SOLELY in the 
 past. They toy with the idea that animals, as well as humans have something called genetic memory, 
 which allows them to understand things that their predecessors did without any first-hand experience. 
 They place Desmond in a machine called an Animas that lets him relive the past memories of his 
 ancestors, and as such, have him reliving the life of his ancestor Altair, an assassin during the 
 Crusades tasked with killing 9 important leaders to "bring about peace" to the Holy Land. How these 
 two realities relate to one another reveals itself throughout the game, and overall, the story 
 is one of the stronger parts of the game.
  
  Then we get into the actual game. Watching Assassin's Creed, one will notice it's a very good looking 
 game. The settings look very authentic, Altair moves with a certain grace and style that is actually 
 very fun to watch. The rest of the citizens of the cities don't necessarily share his good-looks, 
 but considering how many of them that there are, it's not really a flaw, so to speak. The lighting 
 is actually one of the best in any game engine, and hopefully in the future, Ubisoft will use it 
 in future games.
  
  Gameplay, which should be the high point of the game, is actually when the game starts to come 
 unglued. There are some really cool things to do in Assassin's Creed. Altair can pretty much climb 
 on any surface that sticks out far enough for him to get a handhold on, and you can move along 
 the rooftops, rafters, dive off towers and become lost in the crowd to camoflauge from guards and 
 to get close to your assassination targets. When it does come to fighting, you're gonna have some 
 options whether you want to try and take enemies out stealthily with your hidden blade, from a 
 distance with throwing knives, or use one of Altair's swords to fight enemies head on. During these 
 fights, you can slash at enemies normally, but your most efficient fighting skill's gonna be Altair's 
 counter kill. It's a neat little trick that lets you counter a move and follow up with a sweet 
 looking attack of your own. It's definitely fun to watch, but then it turns into every battle being 
 the same, since this technique is just so darn effective. Put your guard up, watch for somebody 
 to attack, counter kill, repeat. It gets repetitive.
  
  And that's Assassin's Creed's biggest problem. You'll be doing the same thing... a lot... over 
 and over and over again. You need to do investigations to get to assassinations, which involves 
 only about 4 different kinds of missions, and you'll be doing these before EVERY... SINGLE... ONE 
 of the games 9 assassinations. You'll need to find viewpoints to find these investigations, and 
 you'll be climbing similar looking towers before EVERY... SINGLE... ONE of those investigations. 
 But hey, that'd be fine if there were some variety in side missions. Sadly... there aren't. It 
 just feels like Ubisoft created this world, but forgot to give you something to do. Assassinations 
 are good fun, and there is a lot that you can do to make your own fun (ie climbing, killing random 
 people) but since you're doing these things enough just playing the game, this too gets old after 
 a while.
  
  The sound in Assassin's Creed is a mixed bag. The soundtrack and crowd noise sets a really nice 
 atmosphere for Assassin's Creed, and there's a lot for your ears to get into here. The voice actors 
 all do a decent job, save the actor who plays Altair himself. Where all the other guys sound realistically 
 from the town period, Altair sticks out like a sore, Hayden Christiansan-esque, thumb. Other than 
 that, the rest of the respective sound effects sound up to par, and the game overall sounds good.
 
  
  It's not that Assassin's Creed is a bad game, it just seems like for a game that made so many promises 
 during development, it doesn't really shine through as anything really new, breakthrough, or particularly 
 creative. Not that a game must break the mold to be good, but this game made claims that it just 
 doesn't uphold, and is overall just not that much fun to play for that long. It's repetitive, but 
 does have some life in it. By no means is it not worth a play, just be sure you realize what you're 
 getting into when you fire up that disc.
  
  I give this game a 7/10 for intuitive gameplay mechanics, great presentation, but repetitive gameplay 
 and disappointing delivery on it's potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriscarder
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  All that Glitters is Not Gold
  
  If you are fascinated by shiny objects like a bit of tinfoil, you will probably dig this game. 
 You will want to like Assassin's Creed. But if your honest with yourself, you won't. The graphics 
 and sound are unrivaled and really show off the power of the next gen hardware. However, don't 
 get sucked in by its Sirens song before plunking down your $60 bucks because this game is like 
 dating a Playmate with a meth addiction. It might look gorgeous, but the experience is going to 
 be shallow and awful. When it comes to mechanics, there's about as much going on here as any Atari 
 2600 game. 
  
  The cities are huge. There is nothing to do in them outside of climbing a tower and pressing a 
 button. Sometimes, to advance the story, you will have to sit on a bench and press the button to 
 eavesdrop on a target. Sometimes you will have to walk behind a target and press a button to pickpocket 
 them. And don't think you can do this to the hundreds of NPC characters that walk the streets and 
 breathe "life" into this world. These people have about the same personality as the vehicles did 
 in Frogger. In fact, outside of the few characters relevant to the storyline, you don't interact 
 with anyone else in the game. Oh yeah, you can climb around and collect flags. 
  
  Running causes you to be noticed by the guards. What?! Am I at the public pool? Now a beeping tone 
 starts. It has the charm of the "Fasten Seatbelt" tone in your car. Want to make it stop? Go hide 
 in a haystack or sit on bench. Hmm. What do you want to do now? Oh yeah, climb another tower to 
 press the button or go find the guild boss to advance the story line. Maybe if I did that, then 
 I could sit on a bench and eavesdrop on someone again. Sure, you could assassinate that "red" guard 
 you see through your Eagle Eye, but why? There is seemingly no benefit in doing so. You don't gain 
 experience or money and if you're killed in the sword fight, you will fall mercy to game's confusing 
 save system.
  
  I really do want to like this game, but there is simply not much to do. It's like GTA with zero 
 side quests. I feel let down by the developers who obviously thought that the game's wonderful 
 graphics would be enough. The story is mediocre and not compelling. Ironically, climbing and sword 
 fighting is fun for exactly 1 hour and 17 minutes. 
  
  Definitely give Assassin's Creed a rent before you buy or better yet, sucker a gullible friend 
 into buying it and then borrow it off of him when it is collecting dust in a couple of weeks. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Ok.. here we go... How many good games were there supposed to be in November? Alot... EA made some 
 moves and some games got pushed back, or simply got more polished.. so at least we have the time 
 to play some good november games and finish them instead of playin 10 games at the same time.
 
  
  I was about to buy 10 games at the same time... Gta got delayed, Army of 2, Left 4 dead, Rock band 
 now on 20 december in canada... wich leaves me with a couple of titles. And here we go Assasin creed.. i 
 had no idea what i was getting into. So few previews explaining not much of it, i couldn build 
 a hype unless based on the graphics. And lets make this clear .. excellent graphics wich gives a 
 good experience with this game.
  
  Interesting story evolving and sucking me inside this world, sound is great and good voice acting, 
 and great immersion into this world as well with all the small touches that make this game a living, 
 breathin experience. Some games i only played once, as of Metal gear 3... a good 10hours but camn 
 did i get a good feeling playing it.. i didnt felt the need to play it twice because my time enjoying 
 the game was very good.
  
  The mechanics of this game are excellent, they spent aot of time and attention to detail as of 
 the scenery as to everything else. I am glad i bought this game, people watching you play are sometimes 
 confused and might think its a movie with all the fluid animation and the cinamatic cutscenes.
 
  
  Only thing i can say about this game.. might be the way it is played. People thing it might be a 
 chore but i dont fell like it. first you get to a city, get into some high points of few, get a 
 glimpse at the city, and you spot informers or other points of interest, then is your tracking 
 for your target, once you have enough information you get a go on your kill. 
  
  I havent finished it yet, but felt like to do a review.. If you own a HDTV, a 360, and looking for 
 a good game, that mixes assassination, splinter cell and prince of persia mechanics and like the 
 Crusades era.. You have a winner.
  
  Peace and have a great time trying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fraunkd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Am I the only one?
  
  I'm trying to figure out why I'm not doing back flips over Assassin's Creed. I understand the excitement 
 around the graphics and the great sound and voice acting with an interesting story  but that wore 
 off on me by assassination 2. 
  
  Climbing rooftops and walls was far more fun and involved in Prince of Persia. The stealth speed 
 kills were much more fun as well. The basic combat features from games like Prince of Persia and 
 God of War just feel more involved and rewarding  made you look forward to each fight.
  
  The combat system in Assassins Creed just feels really, really detached  getting the timing down 
 to see the little kill animations gets pretty old pretty quick. Its just doesn't feel all that 
 rewarding after the first dozen sword fights. And this is my biggest complaint  I do not find 
 myself looking forward to the next guard sword fight or the next assassination. And sneaking around 
 to get all of the prerequisites ready before the next lack luster assassination just feels more 
 time consuming than fun. I'm not even interested in putting the time into this to see how the story 
 ends.
  
  Its amazing how similar this game is to the new Naruto game  awesome graphics (different style) , 
 exploring free roaming city streets and rooftops, perform various missions and a great combat system 
 where you actually feel like your in control. Probably no coincidence in how a little anime game 
 like Naruto managed the same, combined critic score (8.1) as the big budget Assassins Creed. I 
 can understand how a younger audience might do back flips over this game, but I just do not see 
 many adults not walking away at some point out of boredom.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervenkman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft Montreal's Assassin's Creed comes out with high expectations and fufills its promise. Creed 
 is a great game that I just bought only from seeing it from E3 and its other trailers and video 
 specials. I did not bother to research it much at all because I already knew that it would be a 
 great game. So, I bought it, and it is a wonderful game that stayed with my expectations. Although, 
 the only problem with Creed is the storyline. You will find out that it became very cheesy in the 
 first five minutes. Although when it all came together at the end of the game it fit in rather 
 well. You'll find out what I mean when you play it and beat it. So don't think the game is a piece 
 of crap at the beginning, it's not. Trust me. The other minor, minor problem is that the conversations 
 and cut scenes seem to go on forever. After the first minute of the cut scene you'll be saying 
 "blah, blah, I don't care." But this is not infuriating. Now to the good stuff. The combat and 
 all the chase elements are quite honestly the greatest aspect of this game. The combat with either 
 your long sword, short sword, throwing knives, fists or your assassination weapon is very good. 
 Depending on the weapon equipped, all the fighting techniques and counter attacks will be different. 
 The combat is wonderful and sometimes you may feel that you may just want to pick a fight with 
 every guard you see. The chases are even better, you either be running on rooftops, jumping from 
 building to building or you may be sprinting through the streets dodging the crowds and jumping 
 on beams to give you elevation. This brings me to another thing, the crowd will affect you, either 
 by running in to them causing you to stumble and fall to the ground or by helping you or trying 
 to beat you themselves. The actual assassinations are very good too. They may feel repetitive though 
 because all you do is go to the city they're in, investigating their plans and whereabouts, then 
 actually going in and killing them, then flee from the scene and escape. This may seem repetitive, 
 but it's different from where you kill them and how you kill them. You go in, by rooftops and be 
 silent and stealthy, or you can just walk right in and pull out your sword and just hack and slash 
 your way to your target. It's great that you can choose the way you want to approach the target. 
 The graphics are some of the best I've seen since Gears of War came out. You may be running around 
 and then you may just want to stop to survey your surroundings and textures of the buildings. The 
 sound is good and the music works welll too. Assassin's Creed is a very good game that you may 
 want to buy or not. There is no Xbox Live, this may turn away some people, but the single player 
 campaign is well worth it. An Awesome Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun373
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  The premise of the game sounded really great, you are an assassin waging a war with the Templars 
 in the old world middle east. I bought the game and popped it into my Xbox 360, and I think to 
 myself, "Hmm these menus look awfully techish for a middleages themed game." Sure enough I start 
 playing and all my preconceived notions of the game go flying out the window. I don't want to spoil 
 the game for any of those out there that have yet to play it but it has a distinct sci-fi theme 
 too it. So, I suppose that turned me off right from the start and probably lost me right there. 
 The gameplay doesn't seem as crisp as the professional reviewers claim that it is. There is one 
 instance when you must pick-pocket a guy but you have to hold down B while walking up to him. Last 
 time I checked, when you walked up to someone with your hand making a b-line for their pocket, 
 they might just figure out what you are up to. During fights you are pretty much required to be 
 locked onto your target in order to fight. This of course wouldn't be an issue if there weren't 
 scenes where you have to fight several enemies at once. When I'm in an action game it is often 
 difficult enough to survive. Nevermind, when I constantly have to hit the lock on button to change 
 my enemy, and god help you if there is a target in the distance that you want nothing to do with 
 because if there is it is the end of your adventure. That is of course until you go back to your 
 last checkpoint and listen to the President of the Assassin of the month club (my own personal 
 name for him) spout off about how you have failed him and how you must redeem yourself for another 
 5 full minutes, then youg et the joy of following the abominably small compass, map thing again. 
 The other major pet peeve is that apparently medieval guards have cell phones, police radios, APB's, 
 something, because you kill a guard attacking a civilian, then walking through the city a few blocks 
 away guards all of a sudden jump to attention and yell "There he is!" or some other melodramatic 
 catchphrase. This wouldn't be a problem except, again, it is the middle ages in the middle east 
 and your character looks like 40% of the other NPCs nt he screen. I just wish they had put in a 
 button that allwos you to say "Not, me it was him" and point at some other dope in a white robe.
 
  
  I wish I could agree with the gamespot review. Well, there is one thing I will remember forever 
 about this game. The awful story coupled with inovative, yet underutilized gameplay mechanics. 
 If the story was great I am positive I would have looked right past the often overly complicated 
 control. I don't have two thumbs on one hand. How am I supposed to hold the right stick, the right 
 trigger, and the B button at the same time without breaking another finger, or taking my hand off 
 the d-pad/analog stick on the other side, and then I can't move to get away from the magical guards 
 with their all points bulletin.
  
  I was just really disappointed with many aspects of the game. The graphics are really nice, except 
 ironically enough during the game engine rendered cut scenes where hands and swords just pass through 
 objects at random. The sound is good. Unfortunately the story, which is usually what drives a single-player 
 game is totally lacking and several missions into the game they keep throwing the sci-fi portion 
 back at you and not allowing you to immerse yourself in the totally cool middle ages Templar, Muslim, 
 Juewish conflict in Solomon's temple or Damascus, etc. 
  
  I would definately recommend that people rent it or borrow it before they buy it. I saw the advertisements 
 and the previews, etc. and was totally let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bass3636
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  One of the best games of ever played you should totally buy it or rent. You wont regret it. Great 
 graphics, awesome gameplay and pretty good story too. Sharp controls make the game really smooth. 
 If you like running on walls and jumping roof to roof and love assassinating people in a whole 
 lot of different ways then buy this guy right now. a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guertt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  To make it simple, my girlfriend is starting to hate me because I can't think of anything else 
 since 3 days. Really Really good game, Immersive like hell!!! Every person in the game have a personnality, 
 you can really feel like you are in those years...
  I don't want to say too much but there is also a plus in the game, It's call *Anibus* love that!
 
  Minus point: Don't like the bluffering on people when loocking at  
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projump2001
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  I like RPGs I enjoy them , MMORPG I did enjoy at one time but I must admit MMORPGs can be to long 
 and to much of a life waster. 
  
  Now here we have a game that I thought I would not be to amazed with because I thought It was like 
 a RPG with hack and slash like Marvel alliance which I did not like., 
  
  Assassins Creed is like a RPG but with challange ,. you need to climb things, pick pocket solve 
 things and best of all explore and fight. Its the best things in one ball. 
  
  I thought It would get boreing but was I wrong. This game will keep you on the edge and keep you 
 exploring at the same time. Its just better then I thought it would be even tho it got a 9.0 
 
  
  Its a really good game and its just fun and amazing to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandterra
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  when i first heared about this game i thought "ah its going to be good but i am going to just ignore 
 all hype about it" well now ive got it i relise all that hype it had just before reslease is exactly 
 true.
  
  the game is so brilliant i have just found a 10 min spot to write this then ill be be back on it. 
 the gameplay is smooth, the graphics are amazing and it allows us to do more in acctual gameplay 
 than any other game has evr done.
  
  i think this game is one of the ways to the future of gameing and i hope to see more games that 
 allow such freedom . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjbcfc
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are sensational, you truly believe that you are actually there in Altair's 
 awesome looking world.
  
  The gameplay is also impressive, the free running type skill of Altair is not insanely difficult 
 and not unbelievably easy for it seems the makers of this game have found a very rare equilibrium 
 between difficulty which seems to be a rare thing in games today.
  
  Fighting, whether it be with your throwing knives, fists, sword or other weapon is extrememly rewarding. 
 The only downside is when you are battling multiple enemies at once for it's like a cheap fighting 
 movie where the hero is surrounded by badies yet only 1 or 2 enemies battle the hero at once instead 
 of them all just swarming him and easily defeating the hero. Of course I can easily forgive this 
 for how annoying would it be if all the enemies just gang banged you lol thats why this won't effect 
 my final sore for this game.
  
  The sound of this game is amazing; whether it be the birds, townspeolpe, enemies squealing from 
 a sword being impaled in their torso or the extremely talented Jesper Kyd's symphonic score during 
 cinematic moments.
  
  I HIGHLY RECOMEND this game to everyone. This is the type of game that is truly worth buying a 
 360 or PS3, believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjmb
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is awesome.
  
  The story is awesome.
  The graphics are revolutionary.
  The gameplay is very fun.
  
  Are there any problems with this game?
  NO!
  
  I don't know 
 why people complains. "Oh, it's repetitive"... yeah, right.
  Tell me wich game isn't?
  
  But this game is a mix of Prince of Persia, Hitman, Splinter Cell and GTA.
  
  You can do so 
 many things, like creating a distraction for the guards (just kill one stealth, or thow him from 
 the roof) . Or climb a tower, disguise as a monk...
  
  I'm very impressed with this game.
  It's worth each penny.
  
  Belive me, buy it right away.
  
  GRAPHICS: WAY BETTER THAN ANY 
 OTHER XBOX360 GAME.
  SOUND: JASPER KYD (the composer from the Hitman Series) .
  GAMEPLAY: YEAH! KEEP PLAYING...
  OVERALL: I HOPE THEY RELEASE MANY OTHER SEQUELS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishopz23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Its Sweet For sure !!! 
  Assassin's Creed it is a amazing game. It is one the best games of the year . I will recommend 
 to all my friends there is killing ,stealhing. The best thing about this game is the world is interactive. 
 When you bump into people with pots on their head they dorp them or when you are running you run 
 them over instead of walking through them. The fights fell like you are in a movie when you got 
 to kill multiple people slash slash cling cling then dead . LOL!!!. The graphics are some of the 
 best graphics on the 360. The world transisations nicely when moving from area to another. I love 
 when you scale the towers and see miles of landscape all across the country . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Everyone seems divided on Assassins Creed. Some people are simply amazed by the visual style (and 
 dont see anything to complain about) , others say its repetitive and lacks replayablity. While it 
 is an amazingly beautiful game, I tend to agree with the people that call it too repetitive. There 
 just isn't enough to do.
  
  It really is an amazing game world UbiSoft has created. It completely blows away any open world 
 game seen before it. Not everything is climbable (trees are not) . And you can not scale flat walls 
 (there needs to be something to grab onto) . But you can go almost anywhere in the 3 cities. You 
 dont "have to" climb that often. But you will, because its a lot of fun (for a while) .
  
  There are so many citizens and guards running around, with an amazing amounts of detail (considering 
 how many of them are on screen at once) . And the detail and graphical polish, on the main character 
 is the best I have ever seen in a video game. Not just the textures, but the animation too. The 
 game world looks great, and the main character looks even better.
  
  The fights between you and the various guards also have a solid visual flare. The camera is constantly 
 swinging around to give you a cinematic view. Its all about block, counter strike, grab, throw. 
 You can't just hack and slash, that simply wont work. But while hack and slash is not the games 
 style, there is a lot of gore. There are over the top finishing moves, that will kill an enemy 
 instantly (lots of blood, but no decapitation or severed limbs) .
  
  The game gives a great visual impression, and it is lots of fun (for a while) . But, I think, it 
 lacks gameplay depth. After the first assassination, the rest of the game is almost exactly the 
 same thing, repeated over and over..
  
  There are 9 assassinations to be done. And there are 6 submissions leading up to each assassination 
 (you only need to do 3) . The problem is, it is the same submissions each time. Pickpocket, Interrogation, 
 and talking to a fellow assassin for info. You just repeat the same submissions over and over, 
 for each assassination story arch. And they are not particularly fun or deep.
  
  Pickpocketing for example. You go to the Icon marked on you map. You listen to two men talk, and 
 then you Press the B button, and pickpocket one of them. Its always exactly the same. And the other 
 submissions (the bulk of the game) work the same way. You go to the icon on the map, and do the 
 same dull activities over and over.
  
  After I finished the game (about 20 hours) I went back to one of the cities, and just watched the 
 citizens roam around. The game looks great. But its all for show. Its not a "living breathing world" 
 at all. There is no day/night cycles. No weather. No enterable buildings. And most importantly, 
 nothing to do, after you get tired of climbing buildings, and killing random guards for no reason.
 
  
  If anyone were to ask me if I thought the game was worth playing, I would say "absolutely". It 
 does some things, better than any game ever has. Overall, I think its the 3rd best 360 game to 
 date. But does it have lasting appeal? Does it offer any reason to go back and replay it? I don't 
 think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevfaith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  The graphics of this game is equal to GOW and sometimes it is even better!!! you MUST play this 
 game to see it for yourself. no matter how bad ppl say the game is, the graphics just make those 
 bad points forgivable. maybe this game has some weak points, but the graphics just make them all 
 up easily. you will just keep saying WOW when you are playing it. the game also has one of the 
 best combat system ever. the combat never gets boring. the only drawback for me is that there is 
 no customization of the character, weapons, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterdecember
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start with some meticulous criticism with feels like pulling teeth with this title. 
 Basically all criticism is just acknowledging that the game is not QUITE perfect enough to make 
 you forget that last 'perfect' game you played... and if a title comes to mind, yer one up on me...
 
  
  #1: HANG-UPS... kinda often the game 'hangs up' a bit when running around... only for a second 
 or two, but noticeably enough for my girlfriend to ask: "why does it stop?". Not a major problem, 
 not even really that annoying... Even with these 'hang-ups', everything else flows great enough 
 to overlook this minor 'problem'.
  
  #2 GRAPHICAL ERRORS... this is just something I noticed, and hardly a complaint, but I had to bitch 
 about something, right? (AND KEEP IN MIND, THAT I'M ONLY RAGGING ON THIS GAME SO HARD BECAUSE IT'S 
 SO DAMN GOOD.) Basically there are some (very well handled) frame rate issues noticeable if you 
 catch em, and sometimes you can get a glimpse of some (maybe texture?) problems... which are also 
 very minor...
  
  Which brings us to: THE REAL REVIEW:
  
  Basically this game is awesome. HITMAN, and SPLINTER CELL fans are allready on it. You kill anonymously, 
 and with a great amount of stylish skill, and then you leave. You're an assassin... and that much 
 doesn't care about which time-period yer in.
  
  BUT LETS FOCUS ON THE GAME...
  
  TIME-PERIOD/LOCATION/ETC.:
  
  1200 A. D. JERUSALEM (-ish) : Visually reconstructed well enough 
 to make my friend say something like: "Man, we should do something like this but just market it 
 to adults as 'Travel-Programs". Everything is great, down to dusty detail of foot movement on unpaved 
 marketplaces, to the very 'wet'-feeling and visually aided slummier parts of the cities. Not to 
 mention how the 'natural world' light sources are constantly changing, either from clouds in front 
 of the sun, or from weird air-borne debris floating around the environment. The attention to detail 
 is so good, I'm surprised the circling hawks around 'vantage points dont shit on you to give ya 
 a heads up.
  
  Speaking of these 'vantage points', They're not just for fun climbing. With each of these points 
 climbed, you gain awareness of of the city around you... (peasants that need assistance, informants, 
 intel-holding pick-pocket vivtims... etc.)
  
  I guess the real point I'm trying to make here, is that the environment for the game is fantastic.
 
  
  Next issue: CONTROL: Again... just awesome. Very free navigation lets you go just about anywhere, 
 in a multitude of different ways which allows some very fun and entertaining chases and pursuits. 
 I will also give some credit here, to the animation people of this game... It's not only fun to 
 play, its fun to watch. Animations are smooth all the way through, whether yer pouncing a guy with 
 a knife through his throat, or yer climbing the highest tower in Damaskus... everything is beautiful, 
 and I really can't stop stressing that enough.
  
  The fighting in the game is simple yet fun, utilizing a system of counters and timed attacks. Again 
 fluid animations make the whole system very appealing.
  
  SOUND: Great... it's just what you'd expect at every turn. Just give me this one. I don't feel 
 like explaining it. It's just the way it should be.
  
  REPLAY: There are a couple of different 'collection' type side-missions throughout each city. Collecting 
 flags and killing Templars, mainly, which is no easy task given the size and depth of each of the 
 three cities. However it does give you reason to replay the game a couple of times in a kind of 
 free-running Tony Hawk fashion, basically covering each location top to bottom, which is surprisingly 
 fun and... dare I say, exhillerating...
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE: I know I could go into some pretty crazy detail, but my patience is thin. If you 
 were ever interested in this game, then just go buy it. It's not the kind to disappoint. Chances 
 are, yer 'next-gen' 360 library is lacking any true 'next-gen' titles, and this game should be 
 a welcome accquisition to any true game-fan.
  
  AND... apparently this title is set up for sequels (or apparently a trilogy?) Aside from my previous 
 'Shenmue' type disappointments, I can't help but get excited for the future of this saga... and 
 something tells me I will only be granted a full, enriched, and well produced experience from the 
 soon to be very anticipated conclusion to this... yes... masterpiece. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Well at the time of this review I am more then 1/2 way through the game.... well 3/4ths through. 
 It was getting alot of bad rep once it came out for repetitive play, stupid story and other things 
 but I beg to differ. Although what "bugs" it does have are so minor compared to its fun things 
 you could care less.
  
  This review wil refer to things that will sound like spoilers BUT THEY ARE NOT. You see them in 
 the first 3 seconds of the game so you are not being spoiled. What to know what it is? The game 
 is really in the future but you are "thinking" in the past. Want to know more? Play the game!
 
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. When your in a city theres so much crap around you it makes 
 games like Saints Row, Godfather and what not put to shame. The detail is wonderful and everything 
 has so much realism yo can't really pick out anything and say "AHA!!!! That doesn't look right!". 
 The animations are smooth, the graphics are crisp. 
  
  The controls are solid and VERY innovative but make the game hard and sometimes frustrating at 
 times. Read near the bottom for more.
  
  The music and sound is amazing too. While the music is great like a movie the sound is unbelievable. 
 You'll walk through a market and hear like 30 guys from beggars to sellers to just people talking. 
 And this just isn't random chat (for the most part) . If you are near a merchant for instance he 
 will do things like ask you if you are interested in something. Or get to close to a beggar and 
 they will follow you and ask tons of things! Theres so much audio I was really impressed!
  
  The gameplay is huge. I don't know where to begin. For starters this game while like alot of 
 games you may have played it is very unique in others. Such as you can climb practically anything. 
 And your health bar is unique. You can take damage and it comes back when you hide and run away 
 BUT... if you kill someone you lose health if they were a civilian so try to stick to guards, targets 
 and typical scum. 
  
  The games fighting system is great, unique and its my only problem. The buttons (X, Y, A, B) control 
 your body. Y is your head, hit it to look around. X, B are your arms for fightings. One slashes, 
 the other is for assassinating. And Y is for your legs. Well actually they have multiple purposes 
 depending if your holding down RT or LT which make you "run" which is obviously more suspicious 
 and the other makes you more "civilian" like and less suspicious and changes the each button to 
 a more subtle move. It sounds complicated but its not.... to much.
  
  When fighting comes along its not just "mash mash mash". You can but you have to really learn when 
 to hit buttons and how to move if you really want to kill right. Because after your initial kill, 
 killing lots of guys is not easy later in the game. The feature they added which is another draw 
 is the ability to climb anything... yes anything. If you see something besides just a flat boring 
 wall you can grab it! A brick that sticks out, a wood pole, a window, a bar.... etc. Trust me theres 
 so much crap to grab you; d think they spent 50 years adding stuff top each building.
  
  And of course since the game is about stealth alot of the time the AI isn't that bad. Think a mix 
 of Metal Gear Solids alert system and guards mixed with some Splinter Cell and Thief. But in this 
 you don't stick to shadows or anything. You can go on roofs if you like or walk among the crowds. 
 But later in the game killing your targets will not be so easy. You will have to sneak into giant 
 fortresses full of guards that aren't so pleasant o stupid.
  
  Now like most free roam games you can do side missions and quests. Alot of people find these boring 
 and even the main story things repetitive. I guess its up to you if you feel that way. Pick pocketing, 
 listening to conversation, beating up people for info, helping civilians that getting beat up. 
 Those are more of the "AI" kinda quests. I never get bored of those. Then there are the typical 
 massive quests like find 200 flags hidden in this city, 30 in another. Or kills 40 Templar Knights 
 scatter in this city (not that easy) . You don't have to do alot of these but they add lots of replay 
 and lets you explore.
  
  So with all this stuff to do what are some cons?
  
  Well like I said my first issue is the combat system and the controls. I mastered it for the most 
 part but I can see that alot of people aren't getting and it has already killed any chance of this 
 game getting something like GOTY. But I didn't deduct any points because since I know how to use 
 it it doesn't really effect me. But its effects others.
  
  This one I deducted some points for. Since the game is future based, well..... you in the past.... just 
 play to see. Since the majority is always in the past you tend to see alot "future haze" things 
 like when you auto target someone they have like techno looking textures floating around them. 
 Kinda like when you target people in any game to let you know who you selected. To me it takes 
 you out of that "past" feeling. I know its story is your in the future and THINKING about the past 
 but it wasn't needed.
  
  Once again no game is perfect so there are a few minor things that don't really affect the game 
 but just kind of get under your skin such as sometimes when escaping its a pain to climb and get 
 away right because your guy gets stuck or seem like who is off in la la land about what to do on 
 a wall.
  
  Another minor annoyance is the fact that all the things the training teaches you don;'t really 
 work right, once again it could be the weird controls and gameplay. The ladies with the vases always 
 have them fall off their heads anyways. Yet you can kill a guard and his buddy next to him most 
 of the time doesn't notice yet the citizens will and run away.
  
  Overall this game is so amazing on every aspect I might just buy it! I would suggest the same unless 
 the fact that they kill the plot within the first 3 seconds kills it for you. The game can be hard 
 if you can' get past the controls during gameplay but give it a hour or so. This game has lots 
 of long life and replayibility but I can see some people not liking the repetitiveness. This is 
 one of the best games this year, yep better then Bioshock.... hmm.... ok tough call.
  
  BTW on a funny note. Your assassin whos one of the best when he falls in the water dies. Why is 
 that? It seems most hero's (or villains) just can't swim. Must be a lack of swimming coaches in 
 the gaming universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  OK im going to be as honest as possible for any of you thinking about buying this game. I just 
 bought it and im still trying to convince myself i did the right thing but it aint easy heres why. 
 When you start the game first impression is wow yes the graphics are beautiful but then right away 
 i was like hmmm these controls feel a bit clunky.. again i tried to convince myself its ok ill get 
 used to them. Now i continue playing and voice acting is good right up until your guy speaks!!! 
 everyone has middle eastern voices but the main character sounds like some cocky cowboy ,it was 
 really hard to like the guy. Moving along....... running around the city is fun you can go pretty 
 much anywhere and horse back riding is fun and all but after youve climbed a hundred or so buildings 
 it gets old. The fight mechanics arent really that fun and the quests do tend to get a bit repetitive 
 .. im rather kinda decieved and i wish i had rented this before rushing out and doing an impulsive 
 purchase like i did. Dont get me wrong it is a good game is just not a life changing expirience 
 like most of these reviews say. Best thing this game has going for it is its graphics. But like 
 all things everyone is entitled to their own opinion so.....
  
  Biggest regret i have is now i dont have cash to buy mass effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antyoung
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  I have been following this game development ever since I heard of it. Im mow playing one of the 
 best games out.
  What a game, the visuals are fantastic, game play is very unique and the story so far has blown 
 me away. I never expected a story like this.
  Well done Assassins creed and thankyou for a brill game.
  I love the climbing of towers to get 
 a view point.
  Game combat is good, you really feel like you are fighting.
  I just cant get over the graphics, they are stunning every part of the game so far has impressed 
 me, i just cant wait to play it next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkerLawerence
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  "Assassin's Creed hits the mark"
  "Assassin's Creed hits the mark"
  Fantastic experience. The story is greatly engrossing, and telling us upfront from the very beginning 
 what is really going on is intelligent storytelling. Instead of trying to pull a cheap, run of 
 the mill, twist in the end- they tell us from the start and it allows for a very unique style to 
 tell a story in a videogame. Much like Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, this game manages to 
 break the fourth wall, and that makes it stand out as far as storytelling is concerned. If your 
 not into it, that's one thing, but it's unique style and originality in approaching a story like 
 this must be marveled at.
  
  The sound is fantastic as well, with accents done well enough to never sound wrong. Altair's voice 
 is nicely done, although not as organic as the rest, but it gets across the classic "dark, loner, 
 badass" voice you'd expect. The music is top notch, and sound effects add to the atmosphere as 
 well.
  
  Control wise, Assassin's Creed couldn't be better. At first, it may seem strange. That's because 
 of how intuitve they are. The tutorials and progression of the game allows you to get used to them, 
 and master them if you try, by never trying to jam everything in your face at once. Altair moves 
 around like Zorro, bouncing off of everything, climbing up anything. This is the most realistically 
 agile, and acrobatic character to ever be animated in a game. He moves like a ninja, and it never 
 looks "off" because he's doing so in realistic manner's, needing to grab hold of ledges and pull 
 himself up. The best way to describe it is Prince Of Persia's puzzles, only all the time and with 
 all your enviroment being interactive and a tool at your disposal.
  
  Graphically, the game is better than average. There are some hick-ups at times, but not much really. 
 Other than that though, its a very beautiful game.
  
  The game does an incredible job of mixing platforming, stealth, action, detective work with smart, 
 intelligent storytelling. The enviroments are so detailed, you won't belive your eyes. The level 
 designs are so fantastically constructed, like a playground to play in just for you. The game is 
 also the best Zorro game, and it's isn't even a Zorro game. You'll find yourself climbing, jumping 
 and transversing through city landscapes and being chased by dozens of guards who are no pushover's 
 either. Trus me, they are good challenges and make the chases through the city fun like you've 
 seen in countless movies. You'll find yourself outnumbered 10 to 1, and still manage to defeat 
 them like the classic swashbucking heroes of film as well. You'll, for all intensive purposes, 
 feel like a superhero in the times of the crusade with the character design and situations you'll 
 find yourself in. It's pure genuis, in my honest opinion.
  
  The game got tons of hype, and in the end people will hold that hype against this game. Go in with 
 an open mind, and don't be over critical expecting the game to be the END ALL BE ALL, because no 
 game can be that. This game is fantastic, it sets the bar of videogaming to a whole 'nother level, 
 and is very enjoyable. It's a stealth based, action adventure game. If your not expecting an FPS 
 shooter or somthing, then you're on the right track. I couldn't be happier with the game, and it 
 gets a 10 out of 10 from me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowda_13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is, maybe besides Oblivion, the best game I've played for the 360. Everything 
 is so wicked, the cities are massive and full of life, and the graphics are awesome. The graphics 
 are so good, my dad thought I was watching a live action tv show at first. The music and sounds 
 are also amazing. Honestly, I really have nothing bad to say about this game, although, I haven't 
 finished the game yet and apparently the game ends on a rough note.
  All in all, the is a wicked game and is a must have for anyone with a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anikan212
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed, you play as a test subject reliving the memories of his ancestors, stored 
 in his DNA. Beyond that, This game is a fun, creative, beautiful, and expansive world, with much 
 to explore. This game has defined the next gen stealth genre, and i only hope that the next games 
 in the Assassin's Creed series bring the same action and excitement as this one did. Each part 
 of the game blends together in order to create this highly addictive, amazingly good action game. 
 Seriously, leaping from atop a building to stab your hidden blade into someone's neck is awesome. 
 Besides, your only a blade in a crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIE_24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is like no other game I have played in my long history of gaming. It's so incredibly 
 fun and breath taking it's hard to describe. But the only thing more shocking than my discovery 
 of throwing civilians over hand-rails into water ways is how different this game is being rated. 
 Half of the critics seem to love Assassin's Creed for it's uniqueness, atmosphere, and game-play. 
 While the others despise the repetition, voice acting, and AI.
  
  First thing is first: Assassin's Creed is as repetitive as games like Oblivion and Grand Theft 
 Auto. Like Grand Theft Auto, the most of the fun you get in the game is by running around the town 
 causing chaos for anyone in your way. And everyone knows that doing the missions set in the game 
 isn't nearly as fun. My belief is that the people who gave Assassin's Creed 7.0s didn't experience 
 the game as they should. They, due to time constraints, must have tried as quickly as they could 
 to finish the game beginning to start. I can see how the game's main assassination missions would 
 become a chore. Going around collecting information isn't what I'd call fun, but it's an interesting 
 detour from your civilian rescuing and flag collecting as you cause chaos in every town.
  
  It is totally true that every assassination is almost totally the same, but just remember that 
 other games like Oblivion and GTA were much of the same, just giving you different targets to kill 
 or things to destroy and you didn't complain one bit.
  
  For an example in half an hour of game time in Acre I started a massive street fist fight, chased 
 down the last man and beat him and an alley after I threw him into a pole. Killed a knight and 
 started a massive chase that lasted for 5 minutes through the streets and ended in a huge bloody 
 fight in a dead-end street. Threw a beggar down a set of stairs and stabbed her in the neck and 
 proceeded to beat up helpless people in a slum. And lastly rescued a woman by stabbing one man, 
 instantly destroying the second with half dozen sword hits in less than 3 seconds, and dispatched 
 the last two in a blood sword battle.
  
  Assassin's Creed shouldn't be played thinking that the only thing you need to do is assassinate 
 the nine targets. It should be played like other greats, in your own time. When you play the game 
 for yourself, don't just go after targets as fast as you can, stop and smell the roses, beat up 
 some drunks, stab some guards, throw some archers to their death. It's all fun and endless.
  
  Assassin's Creed deserves more, this will be a game people will talk about five years from 
 now, how it revolutionized so many games that came after it. And if you play it you will see that 
 these men who gave it 7/10 were sadly mistaken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enloekevin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  i gave this game a ten because simply it is the best i've ever played. what this game does with 
 the crowds, combat system, and free running is amazing. no other game is like it, its like a gothic 
 3, oblivion, and prince of persia all combined. the ending was good, just frustrating.. the sci-fi 
 twist is interesring and i think the story line is excellent. some of the side missions get repetative, 
 but most of them are fairly simple so you dont waist much time. the assassinations never got boring 
 to me, because i tried different things each time. the combat is fun and addicting, i found myself 
 killing most of the guards in the game just so i could watch the amazing counters and combos, if 
 you haven't tried using the short blade it has the best animations. if you don't own this game 
 you should go out and buy it as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is just flat out amazing with Open World Gameplay, Awesome Graphics, Ubisoft is 
 revolutionary with its interaction with the civilians. Sword play is fun. Assassinations are awesome. 
 And nothing is more satisfying in this game than throwing a knife into a fleeing targets back.
 
  Great voice acting. good Storyline. This game is gunna last you awhile with the story probably 
 going to take you a very long time to beat the story and not to mention the free missions later. 
 Coop would have been an interesting integration for the game or some sort of multi player like 
 a race to the target who can be the first to assassinate Salahadine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clayforHim648
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really want to be hard on this game because of all the crap it was getting and all the 
 hype building up to it. Truth be told, this game has some amazing features. It looks better than 
 any game I've played on X360 (including this fall's favorites: Halo 3 and COD4) . Its no wonder 
 it took so long to make this game; the environments are expansive.
  
  But I have to admit that the gameplay, so far, seems repetitive. I'm still in the "shock and awe" 
 phase of playing, but I can tell that once that wears off, I may not be left with enough content 
 to carry me to the end. Since we pay $60 for a new game these days, that can be a decision-making 
 factor. 
  
  I really love the nextgen graphics
  I really love the historic environments. 
  I really love the controls (though it takes a few 
 hours before they get really fun)
  I really like the story (minus the futuristic DNA memory twist - why can't it just be about Altair?)
 
  I really like the combat
  
  I really don't like the repeated sequences for interrogations, eavesdropping, etc.
  I really 
 don't like voice acting for Altair
  I really don't like the idea of 6 more assassinations if its just a repeat of the first 3
  
 
  Add some more innovative gameplay and dynamic storyline and this may have been the best game I've 
 ever played
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruets
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a wonderful idea. However I would like there to just be an old medieval time game. 
 No magic, dragons, or futuristic feel or story line. All of the games like Assassin's Creed and 
 Oblivion are very good fun games, but I would really like just one with a total realistic feel 
 to it. Anyways very good job to Ubisoft on the game and it is fun so far and I look forward to 
 finishing the game!!!!!!
  
  I cant come up with 100 words so I think the inventers of this site should really change that rule. 
 pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The world of Assassins Creed isn't so far removed from the likes of GTA's generously large and 
 populated enviroments as you might think. Despite a thousand year seperation between the base settings 
 of the two respective games you could still draw similarities in the societies you are operating 
 within. There is crime, homeless people everywhere and men wearing hoods wandering around getting 
 up to no good. But this isn't the type of braindead modern thuggery you witness outside your local 
 grocery store late on a Friday night, scores of happy slapping teenagers won't be bothering you 
 here. Infact, it is the authorities who are the unwelcome opressive force in Assassins Creed.
 
  You play as Altair. An arrogant, hooded assassin who shows no regret for getting stabby on his 
 fellow man and yet remains strangely charismatic despite his obvious short comings. Things go wrong 
 while on a mission and Altair despite being an accomplished assassin gets given the baby steps 
 treatment to prove he has still has it. This makes up the tutorial section of the game and despite 
 Altair basically being taught how to wipe his own arse it doesn't feel too patronising and is actually 
 very necessary. That more or less sums up the Assassins Creed experience, it is beautiful, clever 
 and the pacing is spot on. I could go on but I wouldn't want to spoil anything. All I will say 
 is that it is a good time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjbiggs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a game that had everyone drooling in the early days of next-gen. I myself am 
 a sucker for this time period, so I was naturally drawn to the game. I love it, but it makes me 
 mad at the same time. 
  
  First and foremost, there are few games that match the beauty of this game. It is just fun to look 
 at. Personally, I find the controls to be flawless. I'm glad that Ubisoft allows you to truly control 
 your game character which really draws you into the experience. However, you find yourself popping 
 in and out of the experience with every graphical pop-up. (Maybe it is the Animus which is popping 
 graphics in and out... at least that would be forgivable) Pop-ups should be a thing of the past.
 
  
  I think the sound and ambiance of the cities and crowds are top-notch, but the repetition from 
 preacher type citizens is a bummer. They did a good job though. The sound effects are spot on with 
 the sword fights and fist fights as well.
  
  To me, the controls are simple but effective. You really get a sense of controlling your character 
 which is missed in so many games these days. I love it.
  
  The story is solid, but here is where Assassins starts to slip. It feels like the same ol' same 
 'ol with each Assassination. I would've loved to see more diversity in the ways you find out information. 
 The same interrogation, eavesdropping, pickpocket missions, with an informant mission thrown in 
 doesn't get old, but gets predictable. If the story driving elements were given the same level 
 of tenacity as the graphics were, you'd be looking at the game to end all games. 
  
  Which brings be to my only legitimate gripe with this game. And that has to do with me, and my 
 interpretation of how this game was marketed. I bought into the hype. I believed from what was 
 being shown and told about the game was that it truly was the game to end all games. It isn't. 
 It is a great game. It is probably one of the best looking games ever made. It is one of the most 
 ambitious games I've played in a long time, but it doesn't seem to reach it's potential. At least 
 not this round. I am looking forward to what I believe will be a solid franchise for many years 
 to come. I can't wait to play the next Assassins. I think they have built a solid foundation, but 
 they didn't completely capitalize on it.
  
  Bottom line, this is a great game. I highly recommend it. There are imperfections, which is forgivable. 
 But where Ubisoft did so many things right with this game, you wonder how and why they let a few 
 things slip below the bar which they set.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neversummer75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I just can't get over how amazing this game is. I'm a graphics whore and almost always find ways 
 to faults visually with most games. However, this game is almost perfect in regards to it's visuals. 
 It's by far the most beautiful and epic looking game I've ever seen. I'm a huge history buff and 
 am a big fan of the time period and this game makes me feel that i'm actually there experiencing 
 everything. The gameplay and such could have been a little more deep but it's not as shallow as 
 some make it out to be. This is a game I will never sell or turn in for credit towards another. 
 I will keep this for years to come just as a means to escape to that time and word. Amazing... just 
 amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is probably one of the best action games to come this year. It's possibly the 
 best Stealth Action game ever released. It's approachable, lengthy, highly detailed, somewhat historically 
 accurate, and most of all fun. The game sports nearly 15 hours of content if the gamer focuses 
 only on the main tasks at hand. 
  
  You, Altair, starts off in a cave racing after a treasure. You and your fellow assassin's are tasked 
 with a simple retrieval mission. The mission goes wrong, and Altair becomes stripped of his weapons, 
 abilities, and rank. You basically start out with your long sword, short blade (sheathed weapon 
 attached to the wrist) , and common sense. Throughout the course of the game you'll unlock a short 
 sword, throwing daggers, more throwing daggers, and special combat abilities which are extremely 
 useful in the later portion of the game. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is actually an assassination game. You'll get nine targets to take in a specific 
 order, the game follows a closely knitted story arch (no spoilers in review) , which takes place 
 in three different cities throughout the third crusade. The cities are Jerusalem, Damascus, and 
 Acre. Each of the three cities has their own unique feel to them, and at the same time they don't 
 play completely different. 
  
  Let's start with Damascus. Most religious scholars, or most religious people, will recognize this 
 place as a city from holy text. Many miracles were performed here long before the crusades. The 
 city is a fort, much like the other two, surrounded by a large wall, protecting the citizens inside 
 (except your unlucky prey) . It has this sort of blue filter over it, which has a look similar to 
 what can be found in "Kingdom of Heaven". It isn't bad since during the third crusade King Richard 
 of England actually did conquer this city. 
  
  Acre is located in the dessert. It has a very dry theme to it. Occupied by the Saracens, you'll 
 find the architecture uninfluenced by Europeans here. It's probably the only city that never fell 
 to the Crusaders during the not so holiest of holiest times for Christendom. 
  
  Jerusalem, a city which a lot more people should be familiar with, is lush and beautiful. It is 
 after all the "holy" land. Jerusalem is occupied by the Saracens during this game. Saladin's forces 
 defeated the French prior to the third crusade. You'll find synagogues, mosques, and maybe a church 
 or two, within this city. 
  
  Each city is highly populated with crowds of people walking within its walls. The screen is constantly 
 littered with hundreds of NPCs at any given time during the game. You'll never turn a street corner 
 and find it empty. This adds a great aesthetic feel to the game, since Altair is supposed to be 
 just a "blade in the crowd". The NPCs have various models, so you'll more less than often see different 
 variations of them. 
  
  All three cities are extremely huge; however, the world of Assassin's Creed is even bigger. Separating 
 the three cities is the kingdom. No, it isn't some castle with a moat, it's a large marsh land 
 divided by Crusaders and Saladin's men. Neither side is friendly to you, so you'll move through 
 the kingdom as you would through the cities. The only difference is you'll probably be on horseback.
 
  
  Also, Altair has a place where he and his fellow assassins call home. It's located away from the 
 cities, so you'll have to cross the kingdom to reach this little enclave. In this guild you'll 
 find an excellent and safe environment to practice wall crawling, building hopping, and combat 
 (in the pit area) . On top of all that, it's huge, not as big as the cities, but big enough to believe 
 that the Hassassins have strength in numbers, and small enough to remain secluded.
  
  Since the game world is so large, exploration is encouraged. The game has several types of flags 
 you can collect. They don't offer any significant meaning; they're just there for something extra 
 to do. Another cool thing is the Templar Knights. 60 of them are in the entire region, and killing 
 these dudes can be satisfying since they have a stronger looking demeanor than the common city 
 guards.
  
  Assassin's Creed's looks aren't the only thing it's offering. The games sound design really immerses 
 the player into the world. Crowds sound like crows with crazy people screaming, merchants conning, 
 and thieving thieves getting caught. It all draws you in so you feel as if you're a zit on someone's 
 triple chin. 
  
  The games musical score is fitting as well. It fits with the setting and the theme of the story 
 arch. It also chases pace when you're blending in, fighting, or running away. You won't want to 
 stop playing just to listen, but it does add to the overall experience.
  
  Another great aspect about the sound design is the SFX. Horses sound real, swords clinging and 
 clanging, sound amazing. Voice work is extremely good, well except for Altair. Altair's voice sounds 
 unbelievable. It's not befitting a true Hassassin. It sounds overly Caucasian rather than Arabian. 
 Other than his voice though, the nine targets, your teacher, and various other characters, along 
 with the NPCs roaming about sounds amazing.
  
  So Assassin's Creed looks and sounds great. So what? Who cares? Many games look and sound great. 
 How does it play?
  
  Well, Assassin's Creed is that game you pick up, and start playing. Altair's movements are as fluid 
 as a bird. It's actually befitting his name, considering Altair in Arabic actually does mean Flying 
 Eagle. He's agile. He can go from blending in, to leaping onto his prey. In combat, he's ruthless, 
 cunning, and homicidal. That's right. Altair defends himself by killing his foes. 
  
  Combat is a lot of fun. However it can get repetitive in latter portion of the game. Altair has 
 his long sword, short sword, throwing daggers, and his switch blade which is sheathed by his robes 
 and attached to his robes (it's triggered by something on his body, but I won't reveal where) . 
 While it may seem like you have a lot of options, two out of the four are only useful when sneaking 
 around. The other two are great for sticky situations in which you don't want to run away from. 
 
  
  Using the long sword and short sword is relatively simple. You have your standard attack mapped 
 to the "X" button. The "B" button controls your free hand which is used to grab opponents and throw 
 them, and you play from there. The games counter system is relatively simple, and anything the 
 enemy AI can do with their swords, you can do, except you're extremely lethal.
  
  The throwing daggers are rather obvious. You throw them at enemies who are too far for your switch 
 blade. Your switch blade can be used to pounce on unsuspecting prey, or silently assassinate someone 
 not expecting to be gutted. It's a useful tool that the player can use to take out beggars, drunks, 
 or the deranged mad men who feel the constant need to hit you when ever they're in range. Use it 
 wisely. 
  
  As far the games AI goes, it's pretty straight forward. A blade in the crowd must behave like a 
 blade in the crowd. If you've assassinated people, the guards will suspect an assassin. If you're 
 behavior is socially unacceptable, such as scathing walls, walking around with your sword, running, 
 or just knocking people over, the guards will treat you like a criminal. 
  
  It's pretty easy to differentiate how aware the guards are. You have an icon in your heads up display. 
 If it's yellow, they know nothing. If it's red, they're searching for something. For more detailed 
 information on the guards, you just have to observe them. If their swords are sheathed, they know 
 nothing. If their hands are on the hilt, and the sword is still sheathed, they suspect something. 
 If the blade is drawn, and they've gathered, they're searching, and they're searching for Altair. 
 
  
  Now, Assassin's Creed isn't exactly a short game. The single player can last up to 15 hours, depending 
 on how involved you are in doing the side quests. You're nine targets need to be executed, and 
 it's up to the gamer here to decide how to collect the intelligence. You can use an informant, 
 pickpocket a messenger, or intimidate a loud mouth fanatic. The choice is yours, and so is how 
 much you want to do. You're required a minimum of two, but can only have a maximum of six. The 
 minimum will increase throughout the game, as tales of your dark deeds will spread throughout the 
 land. Your targets will become more protective of themselves. 
  
  Now, finding one man amongst a crowd can be difficult. How is Altair supposed to move about these 
 people? Well when walking, Altair can use the "B" button to gently push people out of his way without 
 making himself suspicious, or causing a negative reaction. He can, but while running he can fall 
 over. The best way to move about is upwards.
  
  Altair is the Spider Man of Middle Ages. He can scathe just about any building. If the surface 
 he can grasp his fingers on, he can grab onto it and make is way to the top. You have to climbing, 
 as it's not only the fastest way to travel between the cities, but the surest way to escape guards. 
 There isn't much button pressing when hopping between buildings to building, you just hold the 
 right trigger, and the "A" button, and Altair will latch on to whatever is nearest to him. Just 
 make sure it's in Altair's near line of sight, otherwise you may plummet to ground. In the latter 
 portion of the game, you'll get the ability to grasp on to ledges, which can mean life or death 
 if you miss a ledge by just that much. 
  
  With all that said, Assassin's Creed is probably one of the better games released in a long time. 
 Some gamers may find it repetitive due to the combat system, or the mission structure. Players 
 may find that essentially gathering intelligence is constantly the same as each mission, even though 
 some intelligence may require different tasks. Either way, Assassin's Creed is an excellent game 
 which every gamer should experience. It's certainly worth a purchase, or at least a rental.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalheat239
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is really fun i love the climbing and the stealth it's just that it's kinda hard 
 to kill one of the main guys for me by assassination i always get seen and have to kill 8-14 guys 
 before i kill him . otherwise i really love hte climbing and escaping i would have to say that 
 my favorite weapon is the shortsword. the combat systems really good except it's kinda easy. But 
 i really hope that the get a little better animations it's kinda annoying when your sword is in 
 the wall but the graphics are nice. and the thing i least like would be the big blue auras as boundrys 
 it's kinda annoying. they just better make it a trilogy i cant wait to se Altair again. i also 
 wish it was live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The story isnt quite what you would expect but here is how the game starts.
  
  Your name is Desmond Miles. You are a 25yr old bartender. You were kidnapped so that researchers 
 can use their research machine called animus. This machine allows the researchers to go in to your 
 genetic memories and see what happened in Altar's life. Altar is Desmonds ancestor. So basically 
 everything that is happening has already happened and you are just living it in your dreams. I 
 am not quite sure what the researchers are looking for but I am sure later on in the game you will 
 find out.
  
  Graphics 9.5
  
  The graphics are very impressive in this title. From the characters movements to the clothes in 
 the wind. Everything is very nicely detailed.
  
  Sound 9
  
  There isnt a whole lot going on but how much sound was their in the 12th century? You hear the 
 birds chirping and the people conversing. Everything sounds pretty good and sets the mood nicely.
 
  
  Gameplay 9
  
  You will visit 3 major cities of the 12th century. Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre. Each city is 
 very large with lots and lots of quests hidden inside. Climbing buildings is easy and the fighting 
 system is simple. You can kill people by sneaking up on them and stabbing them or you can run and 
 fly at them sticking them in the throat with your knives. There are many ways to kill in this game. 
 Each more fun than the other. Doing side missions rewards you in the long run. Helping the right 
 people out can get you out of sticky situations later on. Another nice feature are the horses. 
 This really helps to from one city to the other much quicker. You can even do battle while riding 
 your horse. One thing about the Creed is they are masters at stealth. But even the best can be 
 spotted. When you are seen doing something naughty the guards will signal each other and you will 
 have a fight on your hands. You can run and look for a place to hide if you do not wish to fight. 
 Jumping in hay stacks or just keeping out of sight of your enemies can clear you from them.
  
  Overall 9.25
  
  Despite the crappy story the game really is a lot of fun. Easily having 
 you spend more than 40hrs completing every mission and exploring. If you like stealth exploration 
 games then this is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadpool86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best looking games I have ever seen. It has a great sense of style and a lot 
 of polish. For being a sandbox type game the ridiculous amounts of npcs shuffle about pretty darn 
 realistically. My biggest gripe about the game is the repetition. It really does remind me of the 
 spider man movie series games. Where the most of the fun is had just getting from point A to point 
 B. And the rest is just filler. Theres only a few types of side quests and they all end the same 
 way. With usually the exact same dialog spoken poorly at the end. I love the setting. I love the 
 detail. I love free running. The rest just doesn't live up to its own standard of quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cry_wolf_69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  To start, this game.. has the best graphics Ive seen on the 360 so far. it blows halo 3 and Gears 
 of war off the radar, normally, graphics like this and character animations move akwardly and dont 
 look right, in this game, they move like water. Its perfect, every animation ties in perfectly 
 with another and just makes the gaming experience all that much more immersive. The character modeling 
 is top notch and the pace of the game is just right for the type of game it is (Well, you're an 
 assassin! SO what do you think its gonna be?! FAST?) . The voice overs are great and only add to 
 the story, I havent beaten the game yet and only killed 2 of the 9 men to get to the completion 
 and already Im in love with the game. The only set backs, however, are the fact that the game has 
 some...'hickups' if you will. Once in a while you'll see some graphical problems that fix themselves 
 but are there none the less. 
  
  
  Gameplay -- 10
  Graphics -- 9
  everything else- 10 
  
  hope this helps :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  It's always interesting reading the first reviews for games. Nearly always the people writing them 
 were obviously either dissappointed 'fanboys' caught on the hype train, or at the other extreme 
 just hating (for some inexplicable reason) the fact that people were looking forward to the game. 
 These people invariably play for about 5 hours, then come on here and write a scathing report on 
 how there's no variety, it's all just pretty pictures, and another failure for current gen gaming. 
 "BOOO GO AWAY SADDOS!" is what I have to say to them. Seriously, what are these people expecting? 
 Let me tell you what this game has to offer in summary:
  
  An intriguing storyline
  
  An incredibly unique character control design
  
  An original story setting
  
  Awesome and 
 fun fighting mechanics
  
  Great use of the 'vertical' aspect of the game
  
  Beautiful, gorgeous, jaw dropping graphics
  
  A general sense of 'cool' throughout
  
  Did 
 I mention the fighting kicks butt?
  
  I'll reiterate. I don't know what these moaning people expect from a game, but I will be honest 
 about one thing. I spent about 4 hours today playing the first couple of sections and I was in 
 serious doubt. Is this it? 4 kinds of 'intelligence gathering' then off for the kill 9 times? I 
 wandered around for a while in 'the kingdom' not really knowing what to do, then gave up and played 
 something else.
  
  Later, I came back and completed the entire first section, and it clicked. The slow crescendo to 
 the last frantic moments of the kill and escape. I dropped into the private market of the mark 
 and watched as he brutally stabbed a man to death in public to set an example. He then walked over 
 to a stall to have a look around. I crept up behind him using Ubisofts stealth crowd feature thingy, 
 and using my hidden blade, finished the man. We had a chat, then I was off. I had done all the 
 interrogation missions (because I'm a bit OCD) and so had little trouble finding routes to shake 
 off the guards, due to the help I received from the public.
  
  All this happened in a completely natural manner. NONE of it felt staged. The thing is, this world 
 Ubisoft has created feels alive. The people are actually going around doing things; buying, selling, 
 discussing, public speaking. The atmosphere is incredible.
  
  Then there's 'the kingdom'. Of course you can just jump on a horse and ride through from city to 
 city. Feel free to, there's no penalty. Or, if you want to play the game for the reason you bought 
 it, you can visit all the landmarks highlighted on your minimap (found using select on your control 
 pad) and look for the flags scattered across the land. This isn't quite as mundane as it sounds, 
 as almost all the flags and landmarks are guarded by up to a whole camp worth of soldiers. This 
 leads to one of the most fun acivities in the game. Sword fights and stealth kills.
  
  The fighting, simple as it is, has been really well thought out. There are basic timed combos, 
 blocking, and counters (as far as I've encountered till now) . The sound of swords clashing is fantastic, 
 and it's always great to block a whole series of attacks from 5 guys, then counter kill one and 
 have the rest back off a little bit before reforming. These guys will also attack 2-3 at a time, 
 and the game keeps you on your toes by making sure you're highlighting the guy attacking in order 
 for you to block effectively. This may sound easy, but again, it can lead to pretty frantic moments. 
 One more point on the sword fighting. The deaths are pretty sick. There's no guts and gore, or 
 limbs falling off, but there's blood dripping of swords, leg slicing, neck slicing, impaling. Just 
 really good hack 'n slash fun.
  Stealth is simply a matter of joystick control, or using 'blend' to melt into the crowd. There 
 is of course another approach. You have a 'hidden' blade. Use it. If you charge at an enemy from 
 an angle, 9 times out of 10 they won't see it coming. It's fantastic. get them from a height, or 
 rebound off a wall, it's all good. Then it's on when their friends see you! ;)
  
  The other aspects of the game worth mentioning are the free running and climbing features. I mention 
 them together because they use the same buttons. It's wierd at first. You simply hold down the 
 appropriate buttons, then point Altair in the right direction and off he goes, like an excitable 
 puppy on speed. Again, you could complain because the game is basically saying "don't worry about 
 it, I got it", almost like a car that drives itself and you control the throttle and brakes. The 
 only way to die is do something like press 'A' at a great height (Altair can fall a good 2-3 storeys 
 without dying if you roll) or over water. At first I was a little skeptical, but like I said, it's 
 grown on me. I can jump if I want, or I can let the game do it for me. I can drop down or stay 
 above depending on which buttons I'm pressing.
  
  Look, there's more, but I'm stopping here. The fact is, if you heard about the game and thought 
 it looked good, buy it without expectations. Bare in mind this is the first in a franchise which 
 Ubisoft acknowledged long ago, so there may not be closure by the end. This story could be very 
 impressive indeed (Judging by Ubisofts previous successes I wouldn't be surprised) Enjoy the game 
 for what it is, not what you think it should be and it'll grow on you even if you don't love it 
 at first. Or don't buy it and get something else it really doesn't matter. I'm glad I bought it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockklimber23
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing, as are walking through towns and gentle pushing people to make your way through 
 crowds. The environment is also nice.. but once you get past the awe factor, you're left in a game 
 that's just not much fun and starts to feel generic. Missions are boring, and guards are alerted 
 if you don't walk or ride your horse at a snail's pace... If you jog past guards just chilling 
 on the side of a road, not even in a town, they try to kill you, cuz obviously only assassins jog. 
 They make it seem like you can do everything and go everywhere.. but truth is you'll find there's 
 really not much to do in the game.. it's always the same stuff.. rescue a random civilian, pickpocket 
 or sit on a bench and spy on a predetermined person. This game is a perfect example of how graphics 
 don't make a game. Lot of work was put into this game's graphics and realism, but they just didn't 
 get the gameplay quite right. Rent the game and play it for 2-3 hours and see it for yourself.. 
 you may save yourself 60 bucks on a game that has little to no replay value, and low fun factor. 
 Shoulda waited for Mafia 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  ok, so I pre-ordered this game about a week before it came out. Then, a couple days before the 
 release date, all the reviewer websites put up their impressions of it. These kind of scared me, 
 because a couple site gave it scores around 7 (which isn't that great) . But I stuck with it, because 
 this has been one of my most-anticipated games ever. I'm so glad I stuck with the game, because 
 it's truly amazing. The fluidity of climbing/free-running is great, fighting is realistic and easy, 
 and once you learn the controls, they're so easy to use! I'd highly recommend this game to anyone 
 who wants a true next-gen experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The premise for assassins creed is great, a stealth game set in medieval Jerusalem. if it's done 
 authentically with attention to detail then that in itself could be the makings of something special. 
 Why add American scientists probing DNA strands to trace the lineage of the assassin back to relive 
 his ancestors memories?... I have no idea. For me this clumbsy plot mechanic totally spoils the 
 immersion into the rich game world that is set out before Altair.
  
  Then there's Altair himself, why is he the only one with a snide American accent when everyone 
 else speaks with a middle eastern inflection? Why can he not hide the bodies of his victims so 
 he doesn't alert the guards ala 47 in Hitman? I find Altair an unlikeable character, there are 
 many times during the game where I longed for the ability to have some influence on Altair's spoken 
 interaction with the games characters. A light roleplaying element with minor consequences definitely 
 would have improved my chances of putting up with Altair who is basically a hotheaded egoist.
 
  
  For the first hour of play I felt left out, I made no decisions and I didnt have to really think 
 about anything while the game held my hand through laborious tutorial stages. Then just as I felt 
 ready to explore the medieval city I had to play as Altair's descendant walking around with nothing 
 much to do other than listen to wooden dialouge and walk PAINFULLY SLOWLY around the place, for 
 what seemed like a long, long time. 
  
  I persevered and managed to plough on into the game, The mission structures are unfortunately very 
 linear, and "side-quests" of eavesdropping, pick pocketing and intimidating for information are 
 bland and increbibly repetative excuses to lengthen the game. Escaping after the assassination 
 has taken place is an exciting part of the game however the controls, for all their imagination 
 just don't seem to cut it when you find yourself in a pinch. It takes a while to get used to the 
 controls in this game, they've taken the context sensitive idea (like in Hitman where the options 
 assigned to buttons is displayed in the top right) and taken it a step further so context sensitivity 
 dominates the entire control scheme. Some gamers may enjoy this system, unfortunately I'm not one 
 of them. Give me an honest JUMP button please! 
  
  You need a lot of patience with this game since in order to play like an assassin you'll need to 
 walk really slowly across large distances in order not to get attacked by the tetchy guards (all 
 of whom keep a photo of you emailed to their blackberries that they use for reference!) , who won't 
 even let you canter a horse past them. 
  
  Overall, Assassins Creed looks fantastic and had a lot of potential to be a great game but it totally 
 flounders on one crucial ingrediant. The game just isn't fun, it's a rather dull rinse and repeat 
 experience with a flimsy plot. All of this is a great shame considering the care and attention 
 that has been lavished on the game world, with all the streets and rooftops that you can climb 
 to a chorus of villagers who'll stand there watching and repeating the eternal question: "what 
 is that man doing? is he mad?"
  
  I recommend trying this out on a rental as you may like it, a lot of people think it's the greatest 
 game ever. I disagree, Assassin's Creed clearly doesn't stand shoulder to shoulder with games like 
 Bioshock, Orange Box, COD4, Halo 3 (yes I know these are all of a different genre but nevertheless 
 they are of a much higher overall quality) , So right now i'm just like Assassin's WHAT? and I'm 
 waiting for the next Hitman game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  After following this game for ages, i must admit i was expecting a lot more. the graphics and sound 
 are superb, but i found the game repetitive in places. still if i hadnt being so hyped over the 
 game i would have found it a lot more enjoyable, didnt really like the way the training was handled, 
 and some of the sci fi elemnts get in the way
  didnt like the plot tho and in some ways it seemed to ruin the immersive experience!
  as i mentioned 
 tho the graphics are amazing, with tons of detail and some wonderful little touches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright lets face it. This game is amazing hands down. Everything about it is exciting and really 
 fun to play. The story is one of the best I have seen on a game in a long time, the way it ties 
 in how the Templars never died out and they are still on their quest to world domination and the 
 story in Altiars perspective. All really great stuff. 
  The gameplay is topnotch. Yes it can get a little repetitive after a while but thanks to an amazing 
 story you will want to keep playing. From free running to fights everything is smooth and seemless 
 most of the time. There are a few minor animation issues and some sound issues (atleast on my copy) 
 for certain moves, and Altair seems to move wierd when going up and down a sloped path. Other than 
 that the game is great. the environments are beautiful and the soundtrack is top notch. My favorite 
 part was when you first reach the city of Damascus and the Egyptian sounding music comes on and 
 you really see the scope of this game. 
  Some of the issues are repetiveness and minor animations again, which kept me from giving this 
 game a perfect 10. If Ubisoft maybe delayed it untill after Christmas they would not have had these 
 problems and this game would have been perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temtamperu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  My god, ive been waiting for this my whole life. BEST GAME EVER MADE. If you have a problem with 
 this game, get a tennis racket son. from the offset your the man, "oh whats that on top of the 
 building" you say to yourself with the self loathing in your voice that you have become used to. 
 No longer is it a mystery or a puzzle to be preformed by walking into a crate/barrel/stack of dead 
 class mates. No, up the wall with you, like a pervert escaping a close arrest your gone in simply 
 beautiful style.
  
  If, like myself you bought this game (in yer head) when it was first announced yer happy. If you 
 have been in a cave on the moon with a ready supply of drugs and women/men/soda stream machines 
 get this game. 
  
  One problem, why cant I do the first levels with a full blown Assassins powers???
  Too the Loo!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slduncanlaw
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Historical accuracy and video games go together like candy canes and pork chops. Or vodka and dynamite. 
 Or shotguns and babies. Well, you get the picture. Or at least the picture prior to the release 
 of Assassin's Creed.
  
  While mixing together ancient cities, politics, religious strife and history sound may sound like 
 the next cable offering from the minds that brought us the History Channel and CSPAN, it can also 
 be a recipe for one of the most engrossing and immersive games to ever hit the market. Assassin's 
 Creed for the XBOX 360 absolutely sets the bar for what video games should provide their audiences: 
 detailed worlds and inventive means to interact with those worlds. 
  
  There are many reviews out there spanning the spectrum of average to great. Which, in turn, means 
 there are many reviewers that either get it or don't. This isn't a matter of love it / hate it. 
 Assassin's Creed asks the gamer to enter the world and take the time to become part of it. This 
 isn't a pick it up and put it down type of game. 
  
  And while the game asks you to take the time to get to know it, it provides simple and ingenious 
 means to do so through the intuitive gameplay that is offered. The learning curve is quick, yet 
 the gameplay is deep. The fighting doesn't amount to much more than mashing a couple of buttons, 
 but the game isn't about swordplay. It is about deception and stealth. Stealth not in a Splinter 
 Cell sneaky kind of way, but in an open and obvious don't do anything to draw attention to yourself 
 kind of way. And should you do something that elicits a city alarm, the chase gameplay is amazing. 
 It seems inspired in some way by 1970 car chase movies. Bullet in Jerusalem, or something.
  
  The sights and sounds are both subtle and mind blowing. Graphically, you're all familiar with 
 it. The movement is amazing and the textures and lighting only highlight the attention to detail 
 that the developers have lavished over this game. The sound you'll hardly notice. This is a good 
 thing. The ambient noises of the city; the conversations; the wind rustling - all pull you into 
 the world without distracting you from it. The score is subtle and used sparingly.
  
  Now, much has been said about framerates. I can't speak for the PS3, but I can tell you on the 
 360 I haven't experienced any drops. That being said, I have noticed tearing during some parts. 
 Not enough to be a problem, but enough to distract you in the moment. And throughout the entire 
 game, I only saw one clipping issue that occurred after an interrogation where I beat the target 
 into a corner, which created an awkward cutscene. 
  
  While the story is fairly good, I'm not crazy about the digitized effects seen popping up during 
 the gameplay. I thought it was a bit distracting. Not giving away what it is, as it would be a 
 minor spoiler to the story, but you'll know it when you see it.
  
  Replay value essentially consists of further exploration for flags - standard stuff. While the 
 content will keep you occupied and entertained for a while in the Assassin's Creed universe, it 
 would be nice to see more things to do in the cities - weapon mod, gambling, alt career as a cover 
 - whatever. 
  
  Bottom line is that this game is amazing from start to finish. Get it. And then once you complete 
 it catch up on all that CSPAN and History Channel you've been missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diseasedpanda
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was so awesome, the visuals to the story, to the character development. It had it all, 
 except for the fact that it was way to short, I had beat in in less than 8 hours, and thats with 
 doing all the missions, and citizen missions. 
  
  But that really shouldn't stop you from enjoying it, the open world, and fighting system makes 
 you want to play it, even after you're done. There wasn't even any repetitively in it. No matter 
 how you start a fight, or mission theres hundreds of ways to end them, from killing, to running 
 to hiding, or just sitting on a bench.
  
  You will never get th same feel from another game, like you did in this, just leaping off a tower 
 into a cart of hay made my mouth water for more.
  
  The only down side of this game that I seen, was the horribly written and confusing ending. But 
 none the less, it was breathtakingly perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those few games that come out that are completely different than anything 
 you've done before. and with the all the confusion on whether its good or not, i wish to shed a 
 little light. ASSASSIN'S CREED IS AWESOME. 
  
  Graphics: Everything in assassin's creed looks spectacular! The movements are spot on, people interact 
 with you and either hender you in realistic ways, or get out of your way like a normal person would. 
 The cities are populated with millions of civilians and they all seem to have their own business. 
 They all react when a dead body is seen, the watch as you fight guards, run as blood is drawn and 
 freak out when you toss them about. Seems pretty damn interactive to me. Those who say that this 
 isnt reactivity... well they are liars. Srry, but man the A. I. in this game are pretty wise.
  
  Gameplay: The game plays very well, and the free running feels great, although i will give 
 it that its a bit slow at times. Like when your climbing a building, sometimes it can be a little 
 slowish, but the running goes back to top notch chases when you get to the top and are dashing 
 and jumping and swining for dear life. Also assassinations feel great. Whether you plan them out, 
 or just run in an stab the dude it all feels cool. Even when your assassinations dont go as you 
 plan them (you get spotted doing something stupid, or you just plain miss) you dont fail until 
 you die. So you have time to redeem yourself. Side missions are plentiful. And why people keep 
 complaining about them is beyond me. Ive seen way worse repetition in grand theift auto and other 
 titles and no one seems to be complaining too much. They are fun missions, either pick pocketing, 
 racing, saving citizens, eavesdropping or assassinating targets for an assassin buddy. Thats variety 
 if you ask me!
  
  Story: The story is trippy. Within the first 2 seconds you'll be like. WTF DID I PUT IN THE RIGHT 
 GAME?! And yes, yes you did. The story has a strange twist that i never saw coming, And as you 
 progress you slowly figure out whats really going on... On two diffrent levels. You find out whats 
 happening in the Sci-fi-ish modern world and whats going on in the world of the Assassins. Its 
 really great and will have you wondering whats going on until the very end.
  
  Conclusion: This game shouldnt be missed. Their have been a lack of good titles that arent shooter 
 on the 360 and to see a good game that isnt a shooter is a breath of fresh air. I hope they make 
 a sequel that is equally as good and even more surprising. 
  
  I merit the Assassin 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul51423
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  
  you know i thought this gmae would be good with all the hype and reviews ive already read but DAMN 
 this game is so the wow factor.
  
  bit of a confusing start and story but ithink thats going to unveil much more towards the end of 
 the game and the sequels.
  
  graphically this game just kicks everyone else to the curb sitting there in the middle of damascus 
 looking out onto the city before you perform a leap of faith when you hear a crying citizen being 
 attacked by guards and then sneaking up behind one for a stealth assainate and then leading on 
 to complete murder the others with counter attacks making the prince of persia look like childs 
 play.
  
  i actually am having trouble poking holes in this game which is very rare! im only bout 4 hours 
 in and its not become repetetive at all and the amount of things to do outside the main storyline 
 will keep u busy for many many weeks to come
  
  all around legendary game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vomexx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is truly a next-generation game that will set a new standard in the action-adventure 
 genre while taking full advantage of the technical capabilities of the Xbox 360.
  
  The game is set in 1191 AD, when the Third Crusade was tearing the Holy Land apart. Shrouded in 
 secrecy and feared for their ruthlessness, the Assassins intend to stop the hostilities by suppressing 
 both sides of the conflict. Players, assuming the role of the main character Altair, will have 
 the power to throw their immediate environment into chaos and to shape events during this pivotal 
 moment in history.
  
  Ironically, though, the game's friendly controls are also its biggest shortcoming; killing your 
 target normally instigates a chase sequence where you freerun across the rooftops and make fearsome 
 leaps of faith to dodge your pursuers. But as there's no jump button and your hero will perform 
 most acrobatic moves automatically - Legend Of Zelda-style - the controls strip the game of the 
 visceral thrill of making moves at precisely the right moment like you did in the developer's earlier 
 Prince Of Persia: The Sands Of Time, making AC's most exciting moments feel flat and as if they're 
 being played by someone else.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phobos8u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game is about freedom, and the ability to do what you want, when you want. In regards to that, 
 I spent most of my first 3 hours climbing around and doing side missions, such as rescuing the 
 poor folks from guards. They benefit of this action is that later on when there are guards chasing 
 me these peasants, who are now "vigilantes" will stand in the guards way and block them allowing 
 me to escape. There are also these Flags that you can collect, from what I have seen there is around 
 100 per large city and 20 per small... that would put it a total maybe around 200+, I really don't 
 know at this moment. Along with the peasant side quests there are these "templars" you can kill, 
 60 of them. All that stuff is completely separate from the main story line, which consists of assassinating 
 9 key people.
  
  Playing through and just doing only the main missions I can see this taking me somewhere around 
 15-20 hours, but I am not one to just do that. I love getting into the game and collecting things 
 and doing side missions. I can see myself spending at a minimum 8 hours in this first city, which 
 is the smallest of all 3 that you explore.
  
  The story of this game is, well surprising. Looking at just the movies and interviews and screen 
 shots you would think this is just about being an assassin back during the crusades... there is 
 a twist however.
  
  It is present day, and you are captured by some big company. They have a machine, the animus (lol 
 forgot how to spell it) . This company uses this machine to access your DNA, and in your DNA they 
 access the memories of your ancestors. This is then represented in a 3d virtual reality setting. 
 So, basically you are in a machine, playing as your ancestor. Going through his memories of these 
 assassinations. There is basically 2 stories going on, one in the present as this company tries 
 to reach the memory it is looking for, and one as the assassin and figuring out why these 9 people 
 have to die.
  
  I could talk forever about this game, and I have only just begun to play it. I have not even gone 
 into the technical points of this game, such as graphics and animation. There just isnt enough 
 room on this page to go into it all, and ultimately you have to play it to see just how beautiful 
 and great it looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sauron132
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is by far the best game out this year ( i personally dislike halo) The combat just 
 feels right and also looks really cool. i cant think of any words to describe this game. Amazing 
 doesnt come close. Even better this game can last up to 40 hours! i spent 30 something and there 
 is definatly replay value. Icant put the game down! The controls felt really weird but after about 
 1 hour and a half maximum you will have mastered them. The controls are different but in a very 
 good way. The cities look amazing and every little detail looks touchable this game is one to get! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s10fan2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Halo 3? Whats that? forget all the hype about that crap and pick up Assassin's Creed. this is without 
 a doubt one of the best games i have ever played in my life. this game literally gives a whole 
 new meaning to the phrase "badass". 
  
  the whole game itself is amazing and trying to break it donw is tough. the gameplay is out of this 
 world. its so smooth, it makes you want to go out and try to jump from one roof to the other and 
 climb on window ledges and 100 ft. towers, only to take a swan dive off the top into a bale of 
 hay. then do it all over again just because it was fun. the controls are so easy to get to know. 
 one button for many actions in the game. many attacks controled by the button corresponding as 
 the "weapon hand" and the one adjascent to it is for the "free hand". then one for the head and 
 the button below it for the feet. everything from assassinating high profile people in the middle 
 of everything to lightly pushing women out of your way so they wont drop their pots of their heads 
 makes this game a true artform in play. 
  
  the graphics in AC are the absolute best that i have seen on the Xbox 360 to date. everything is 
 amazingly detailed and breathtaking. the shadows are done perfectly and move very well with the 
 characters. there is hardly (if any) slow down when the action gets to going pretty good. and i 
 have been playing this non-stop and there hasnt been a single surprise freeze during the game. 
 this game just looks fantastic.
  
  the sound is another aspect that i was very impressed with in AC. swords clang with the right tone 
 and the music is done erfectly. the voice acting is amazing and very believable. the game basically 
 sounds exactly the way it looks. if it looks serene, you will probably hear some kind of relaxing 
 kind of music. and when it picks up, the music picks up as well.
  
  overall i give this game a 10 out of 10. everything is right in this game. EVERYTHING. i will recommend 
 that if you have an Xbox 360 or a PS3, you had better get your hands on this title. this game is 
 an INSTANT classic. its hard for me to put it down and after i beat it, it will be one of those 
 games i can pick right back upmany more times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  The Good
  
  o This is a beautiful game with clean, crystal clear graphics, smooth animation, and textures that 
 are sharp even when you are right next to them.
  o Controls, while not to my liking (see more in The Bad) , make the various activities easy to do, 
 at least those most used. Want to scale a wall? No problem. Running, jumping, climbing, etc., are 
 all pretty effortless. 
  o Combat is pretty seamless with easy targeting and simple attack commands.
  o Saving and loading 
 are all seamlessly integrated into the game.
  
  The Bad
  
  o Much has been said of the puppeteer controls but I think using that term is really a stretch. 
 X and B are mapped to the left and right hands, or more precisely the weapon and empty hands, but 
 those are really just two different commands that have nothing to do with whether you want to use 
 the left or right hand. You don't care, all you want to do is either attack or use one of the context 
 sensitive commands for the open hand like "gently push". And using Y for the head only means you 
 want to look ahead. You could just have as easily clicked the right thumb stick and been just as 
 happy with that mapping.
  o Worst part of the controls, and one of the deal breakers for me (why I'm getting rid of the game) 
 is having to hold down buttons (like A) while doing other things. For my hands, with carpel tunnel, 
 that hurts! Again, if I could just push all the way on the left thumb stick I could run and save 
 my hands.
  o This game has a horribly slow pace. Just getting through the opening tutorials, the interaction 
 (if you can call it that) with the scientists and with the head of the assassins, takes what seems 
 like forever. I just want to interact with this beautiful world! Please shut up!
  o Along the same lines, the game wants to force you to walk or even blend-in, and that means moving 
 at a snail's pace. I don't want to walk, guys, I want to run!
  o Last but not least, I don't like the whole "assassin from the future" thing. Yes, I know it's 
 supposed to be mind blowing and cool and intriguing and it gives an excuse for the gauge that helps 
 you unlock awesome moves, but it dilutes and slows down the whole game and for me anyway, ruins 
 the whole idea of being in an ancient civilization. Maybe for Ubisoft it's the stepping stone for 
 the sequel "Assassin's Creed: Time to Kill Hilter"?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game for the 360. 
  
  The Good: Good graphics, easy fighting style, climbing buildings is fun, great re-play value. Great 
 counter attacks, and free to do whatever.
  
  The Bad: Sometimes it seems the guards are too stupid, and they may seem a little too suspicious 
 at times. Story is a little confusing. And playing as D in the present can be a little boring and 
 a waste of time, for the fact that you just want to get back to being Altar and explore the city 
 more. You can't skip small parts of the cinematic. 
  
  It has solid graphics that make the city's look amazing and alive. As you walk around the city 
 you are not just going through the motions but you feel apart of the city. Like how everyone reacts 
 to what you do. I like how there are drunk people that push you and poor people that beg you for 
 money. But at the wrong times they can be a pain. Like if you're trying to pick pocket a person 
 and the drunk or the poor person gets in front of you, they can cause you to loose site of your 
 target. 
  
  The fighting style of the game is easy to pick up for anyone. All you need to do is get used to 
 which direction on the D-pad is what. It has a button for every instance you need during a fight. 
 If you get grabbed, there is a break grab button. If you are getting attacked there is a counter 
 button. Another good thing about the fighting style is it doesn't matter how many bad guys you 
 are fighting at once. Due to the fighting system only one bad guy will attack you at a time. So 
 that makes for some big and long fight scenes which are always fun. The better you are at fighting 
 the longer you can last in a fight. The assassinations are fun to pull off at anytime. It makes 
 it fun for the fact that you can assassinate anyone at almost anytime. By anyone I mean just some 
 random guy walking down the street doing nothing, just a quick stab and no one understands what 
 just happened. During the fighting you can kill your enemies many ways. You can just hack them 
 by mashing "X"; you can do a skilled combo kill. Or you can counter their attacks and do a counter 
 kill move. Or you can grab them throw them and finish them off with your hidden blade while they 
 are on the ground. The counter kills are my favorite you just have to be patient and wait for them 
 to come after you "no movements until necessary" is the way of an assassin. The animations for 
 the counter kills are fun to watch. There are different counter kills that happen depending when 
 you hit counter, from what way he is attacking you. Also there are different counter kills for 
 the short sword and the normal sword. 
  Now let's talk about climbing the buildings. Climbing buildings around the city is probably the 
 best part of the game. You can climb just about anything all the way to the top if you want. Jumping 
 from roof to roof is a lot of fun and I wish I could do it in life. There is no better feeling 
 jumping over the alley way with guards looking for you underneath you and you just barely make 
 the jump to the ledge. As you hang there you look down and go phew that was close. Now when you 
 are at top of most buildings you may have the ability to do a "leap of faith" which is a swan dive 
 from the top to a pile of hay. Now you know when you are able to do this by at the top of the buildings 
 you will see birds on the ledge of the building. Jumping off the top feels amazing and always fun 
 to do. The higher the building the longer the fall the cooler it is.
  One of my problems is that sometimes it seems that the guards are a little too stupid. Like come 
 on, you are getting chased by them and you hop in a box on top of the roof. They just stand around 
 and do nothing. Are you telling me no one would want to look in the box? I know it's for game sake 
 that they don't because then it won't be far, but still it's a little much. The same goes for sitting 
 on a bench in the middle of the street. 
  Now the story seems a little confusing by the jump from the past to the present at random times 
 its weird. But you just need to pay attention to what's going on. As long as you really care and 
 make it like a movie it does not seem that hard. Also what I don't like about the story is that 
 you can not skip parts of the small cinematic. Like when you are in the assassin's bureau when 
 the guy is telling you about unrelated stupid stuff I wish I could skip that. Now I'm not saying 
 that I would skip it, but knowing that you are unable to, you are going to be stuck listening to 
 it again when you play through a second time. 
  Now in conclusion Assassin's Creed is one of the better games out for the 360 now. And I believe 
 that this is the game that everyone should play and own! This is the game that can never get old 
 for a long time and will be apart of your game collection forever. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosdragon07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Best action/stealth game of all time. Completely pwns splinter cell. This game is a must have for 
 anyone who can play it. The game is clear and crisp even on a 19" tv and the controls are fluid 
 and easily learned. The only down side is the combat takes some learning but once you get used 
 to it you become a assassin king. there are so many paths to take that you will marvel when Altair 
 does something new that you weren't expecting him to land or make. The games makes up for the fighting 
 scheme by allowing you to annihilate your enemies with either a stealth kill or a counter. Oh and 
 some of the terrain is deformable like scaffolding which results in instant kills on enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAD_MAXY_POO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  -And holy, I never thought I would. I look for such a game in many different things, from stuff 
 like halo/mario/eternal sonata.... and this game is totally mind boiling in its capture. Right when 
 you buy the game be patiant and watch the opening movie, pritty much you DO what that movie shows. 
 And no other game has been able to pull that off. Not one.- And because I need at least a hundred 
 words I have to keep going for a bit, but I need say no more... Morrowind/zelda has its adventure, 
 Halo its awsome multiplayer action, mario its legacy. Now, Assassins Creed a amazing singleplayer. 
 Where when you get of the "Assassinate" move in a air-drop move, or from others you feel this whoosh 
 and it feel gooood. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldsoulco
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Im gonna get the bad out of the way first off. The main char voice over should go. Everyone in 
 the game has a french or arab accent, but you have a plain crappy american one. I dont know why, 
 it dosent fit the story well. 
  
  another let down is that you cant Climb EVERYTHING. ther are some places you just cant go, that 
 made me a little dissapointed but the amount of places you can go made up for it.
  
  this game looks and controlls like a dream. nice small details bring you in and keep you the whole 
 game. 
  
  the ability to move around in cutscenes is somthing new and makes you apart of the movies instead 
 of just an observer. 
  
  the motions of the characters are spot on. no gitters no glitches. 
  
  I love this game and 
 so will you.
  
  EDIT: ive come too see that AC is'nt as good as i first said. Simply, it just gets boring. mission 
 objectives are repetiative and you feel like you have done them over and over. 
  
  the story line gets very predictable, i guessed the ending 3 missions in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J13Twitch
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Over a year since Ubisoft's first preview of Assassin's Creed. Up until November People have been 
 waiting anxiously, Grinding their teeth and biting their Finger nails. 
  
  The Wait was over and Assassin's Creed was available to the world. I'll admit, The ending IS a 
 TINY bit confusing, Other then that the game has no flaws.
  
  Main focus is to kill these guys and stop the 3rd Crusade. But, nobody cares about that once you 
 got it. All you want to do is climb high onto rooftops and jump from building to building, gaining 
 the flags, killing innocents, killing guards, or even jumping off of buildings into a Hay stack 
 (Leap of Fate) .
  
  Once you have gotten your share of Parkour you go into the main story line.
  
  Which is amazing 
 and very... Unusually Enthraling and Intense. It keeps you to the end of your bed, seat, or whatever 
 else you are sitting on, or standing on...
  
  I wont get into the details of the Main Story.
  
  But overall, the game will be remembered 
 for years to come. Assassin's Creed, a must buy.
  
  "Masters, Warriors, Legends, Assassins" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Presidentman2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Everyone once and a while a game comes along that shakes the very foundations of player's expectations. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, I nominate Assassin's Creed for the the 2007 GOTY Award.
  
  As you begin, your character is raiding a temple to retrieve some treasure that that both the Guild 
 and the Brotherhood wish to be theirs. Your arrogance is displayed in many ways and overall you 
 fail, breaking the creed to which you vowed yourself numerous times.
  
  This sadly results on an assault of your enclave, after coming to the rescue and thwarting the 
 siege, the Guild master decides to kill you.
  
  ... Or at least that's he wanted you think.
  
  Controls have NEVER been easier, with enough 
 practice, once you receive counter, you're damn near unstoppable.
  
  Some have complained the story confusing, well in President's Opinion, It leaves more to the imagination. 
 So this game doesn't hold your hand and take your directly to the Eagle and the Apple, Boo hoo.
 
  
  I'm confident that ANYONE who spends money to rent or purchase assassin's Creed WILL NOT BE DISAPOINTED. 
 
  
  Once you get a hold of the controls you have Hundreds of miles of 1191A. D.'s Middle east to explore.
 
  
  This game, hopefully, will redefine the standard in its genre. We're I able to, I'd personally 
 award its developers. Being I'm just a consumer, You have my highest praise.
  
  Ubisoft Montreal has Joined the ranks of my FAVORITE developers.
  
  Hold to the code brothers.
 
  President.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PirateKakashi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  GAME IS AWESOME
  i just go it yesterday and i played it for all of yesterday lol
  This game is worth every penny I would of gave it a perfect 10 because its worthy but there were 
 a couple of glitches and little things like that which held it back. It is hella fun just to run 
 around the kingdom and trample a platoon down wiht your horse then hopping off and PWNING THEM 
 IN BACK OF THE KNEE CAPS !
  
  STORY IS WEIRD AND UN EXPECTED .. really strange opening but its great also because it shows you 
 how to use the controlls!
  
  Well all i have left to say is this ! Assassins Creed is a MUST HAVE game and its just one of those 
 games that will never get old CHAAAA
  
  PS: to you hobos who gave it anything below an 8.0 its prolly just because you have small weiners 
 ! xD 
  
  LATER ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raivon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I have a feeling the negative reviews are by people who didn't have time to enjoy the game because 
 they have a deadline or they never understood what was really going on in the games story in the 
 first place . Some gamers can't appreciate a good story because it takes a little too much time 
 to develop or it just too complex . Then you have the gamers that prefer to totally rely on the 
 opinions of others about what game to buy because they want to make sure they made the right choice 
 . 
  
  Anyways this game is a rare Historic Action Adventure and it has some of the best graphics and 
 animations on both consoles . This is a great experience in gaming that will not totally blow you 
 away but its world will suck you in because you sort of play as the anti hero Altair , an enforcer 
 whose background is a assassin with the Hashshashin sect and he grows into a master assassin through 
 his burning revenge against the power hungry and the corrupted who also planned to betray King 
 Richard . 
  
  Some reviewers forget that all games have flaws and are repetitive so that means you should always 
 keep your receipts and play the games yourself . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeLashmutt1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I never give a 10 because there is always room for improvement. 9.9? Yeah, but that is not an option 
 on the scale of "rate it".
  
  
  I'm keeping this review short and sweet since the game is damn near perfect. I am going to mention 
 only a few things that I believe could have been improved and leave the rest of the reviews to 
 pat the developers on the back. 
  
  
  First thing I would do to make the game better would be to add a little variation or variety to 
 some of the secondary objectives/missions. You can only save so many civilians before it just gets 
 annoying. 
  
  
  Second thing I would do would be to make the "modern" aspect of the game (I'm trying not to ruin 
 it for people who haven't played it) a little more interactive and playable. 
  
  
  Third thing I would have done is got rid of the Tommy Vercetti "Death By Water" Swim (People who 
 have played will have noticed and while funny, it is kinda silly) 
  
  
  The game is damn near perfect and a must own for everyone. I have a few friends who don't even 
 game and Assassin's Creed has them thinking about an early X-mas for themselves. 
  
  
  Bottomline: If you don't get this game you simply will not be allowed to sit at the cool table 
 in the lunch room and you will have nothing to talk about for the next three years with your "Gamer" 
 friends. Can't talk, gotta go play more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon2Dante
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  There has been a great deal of hype surrounding Assassin's Creed, and so far, I can tell that just 
 from the gameplay alone this game doesn't disappoint. There are so many great aspects in Assassin's 
 Creed that I'm not sure where to start, so I'll go with what I noticed first.
  
  The graphics. Visuals in Assassin's Creed are among the best I've ever seen in a video game. The 
 smallest detail has been captured to bring the Third Crusades to life. The characters' looks and 
 actions move with such fluidity, especially when Altair is running through crowds and scaling large 
 buildings. It's just absolutely stunning walking through a market and seeing all the small textures 
 and lighting effects. The gore doesn't look too bad, not to mention.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the sound. When you are walking through a crowd, you'll feel 
 that you're actually there because you can hear the smallest sounds and it all sounds lifelike. 
 There are many different sounds for every action you do, and none of them are repeated enough to 
 notice. 
  
  Gameplay and controls are probably some of the most innovative on a video game in a long time. 
 You can do so many things from using social stealth to blend in with a group of people or gracefully 
 attack your foes with a sword. There's many things to do, but the controls in the game are easy 
 to master and you can switch from a slow walk to fast sprint with the click of a button.
  
  Like all other games, Assassin's Creed does have some bad sides to it. The AI can be really dumb 
 at times, especially during combat. Your foes will surround you, but only attack you one by one, 
 making it a somewhat easy task to take out hordes of enemies. There's also some graphical errors, 
 mainly clipping. Although there are a few low points to the game, there's too many high points 
 that overcome it and make the game so great!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trae12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is truly a next-gen experience. The game takes you back to 1191 A. D to cities 
 like Jerusalem and nearby cities called Acre and Damascus. The game looks absolutely mind-blowing! 
 One reviewer said the AI was dumb. The AI is pretty intelligent in most cases that I've played 
 with. You have ways around the system but most of the time, you will get noticed and will have 
 to fight your way out of trouble.
  
  The game for me was a buy. I loved the game as soon as I saw it debut in E3 2006. There is a true 
 experience while playing the game. 
  
  If you like games like Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider, this game is definitely for you. If you're 
 not interested in action/adventure titles. This game is not for you. Rent it first!!
  
  P. S. The game has a huge twist in the first beginning, so please give Assassin's Creed a good try.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOrmond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, Ubisoft Montreal's latest game. Assassin's Creed takes place during the Crusades... 
 oh wait, I'm sorry, it takes place in Modern Times. Yes, the Sci-fi twist is actually right at 
 the beginning. You start off smack in the middle of a simulation thats gone haywire. The game really 
 doesn't start till all the mess is sorted out. As soon as all of this madness happens, it completely 
 took me out of the setting. Couldn't it just have been a game about the Crusades? 
  
  Anyway, this game can basically can be described as a "Splinter Cell, Prince of Persia" mix. Some 
 may be right with this, but all of it is not there. The stealth part of the game really lacks a 
 bit of... well... the stealth. Hiding amongst the crowd and climbing the rooftops may seem stealthy, 
 but it just doesn't have the whole "hiding in the shadows" type of thing.
  
  The gameplay is quite solid, the fighting doesn't really kick off until a little bit later into 
 the game. One thing that bothered me was that parts of the cities are locked off until later, which 
 basically brings you back memories of playing demos of Saints Row, where theres this huge world 
 to explore, but its cut-off. Yes, the comparison is a bit different, but Assassin's Creed is a 
 full-fledged game. Is there any harm to open up all the cities right at the beginning? Even though 
 they cut off alot of the city, the area you are given is quite large, yet the blue cloudy walls 
 may tick you off after awhile. 
  
  The AI is a bit shoddy, for example, out exploring the world outside in the Kingdom, I was randomly 
 assassinating lone guards. I happen to stumble apon two guards standing face-to-face with one another, 
 so I figured I could assassinate one, then just fight the other. I go up behind one, and quickly 
 jab him in the back, the guy looking right at me ignores the whole thing. I end up jabbing him 
 in the stomach with the hidden knife, instead of getting into a sword fight. Unless these guys 
 can have randomly generated virtual gripes with one another to where they don't care about if their 
 partner dies or not (which I highly doubt) , the AI could of had had a bit more tweaking. 
  
  The missions tend to get a bit repetitive, such as the things you have to go through with your 
 fellow assassin's. One sends you on a hunt for flags, the other sends you out to kill someone for 
 information about the target your after. Each one had a different personality, and the way you 
 killed the informer's targets changes a bit (One was on a 3:00 timer, another was just kill two 
 guys without alerting the city guards) . It doesn't change the fact that it's the same thing over 
 again. Before you can go after the guy your supposed to assassinate, you have to gather information. 
 Like Eavesdropping, pickpocketing missions, doing what informers ask you to do (as explained above) , 
 and Interrogations. Unfortunately, they all stay the same. Eavesdropping requires you to sit on 
 a bench while you target two people talking about your target (Listening to people talk, fun... 
 right?) . Pickpocketing requires you to target two men talking about an object that has information 
 about your target, and then pickpocketing the man with the object. Pickpocketing missions only 
 last about two seconds, and aren't really that fun. Interrogation would have to be the best one 
 of the bunch. You have to target a guy who happens to be preaching about your target to the city 
 people. After he gets done, you follow him to a secluded area (some might not lead you to one, 
 but from what I've played, it doesn't really matter) , then you proceed to beat the crap out of 
 him for information. There are also Free missions for you to do, such as reaching view points, 
 and saving civilians (again... the same thing over and over again... except you have to do it ten 
 times per city) . The free missions aren't all bad. After you save a civilian or reach a view point, 
 you are awarded with an updated map, or people that help you within the city, such as Scholars 
 that will help you get past guard posts, and Vigilantes that will distract guards if your being 
 chased. These seem like the only missions that actually benefit you. 
  
  Once you have the information you need after doing the missions, you are ready to report into the 
 city's Assassin's Bureau to receive your mission. The assassin missions change in terms of setting, 
 but all in all, they tend to stay the same as well. Some missions will just require you to stick 
 your hidden knife into the target without hassle, the other lead you on a goose chase throughout 
 the city. One way or the other, hes dying, and pleading his "worthy" cause to you. 
  
  Visuals are amazing, yet I can't see the full experience, since I lack an HDTV, but still outstanding 
 on an SDTV. The detail on each building, and the variety of each building is quite the treat for 
 the eyes. 
  
  The story is kind of messy, the twist kind of makes the events happening in the simulator seem 
 unimportant. I haven't finished the game, so I wouldn't know what happens at the end. For all I 
 know, the end could make the segments meaningful. 
  
  The sounds of the people could of used some work, the quality of the sound seems phoned in, and 
 people's conversations and comments tend to loop. Also from what I have heard, there isn't that 
 much of an original score to talk about. Most of the time, I'm running around the city with no 
 music (dunno if it's just me or not) . 
  
  If you happen to enjoy any of Ubisoft Montreal's other games, such as Prince of Persia, by all 
 means I'd recommend this. People outside of the loop should also pick this game up, its not to 
 hard, nor too easy. The difficulty curve is friendly to most gamers. With all that said, this game 
 is definitely a worthy addition to your collection, yet it wasn't quite the GoTY candidate it was 
 made out to be. With all you can do though, this will last you for a long, long, LONG time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Cool
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, in my opinion is one of the best games of the year. All the right aspects are 
 there, tremendous gameplay, good story, and killer graphics. Wandering around jumping on rooftops 
 and killing who-ever you want takes a surprisingly long time to get old. The combat system is great 
 but i'm sure some players would not like it as much. All and all, assasins creed should be right 
 up there with Halo 3, Call of Duty 4, and Mass Effect (maybe) for game of the year.
  
  The reason I gave the game a 9 instead of a 10 has two major reasons.
  1 - The Twist SUCKED
 
  2 - The game had so much potential, I mean SO much potential and it is not as revolutionary as 
 they had claimed. The Game was said to re-define the term next-gen and it did a OK job. This game 
 would have been more well recieved had it not had so much hype to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkhammy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Man, I don't know. I was super pumped for this game, and after I saw a few reviews bangin on the 
 repetition, story line, etc, I got kind of bummed. I really wanted it to be good!
  
  So, I went and got it anyway, since I figured what the hell, right, and man. I gotta say. It's 
 a pretty goddam cool game, and it's a hell of a lot of fun to play.
  
  I mean, I've only played through about half the game, but I can already tell that, okay, it's not 
 the mix of GTASA, Oblivion, and, like Ninja Gaiden that some folks might have been hoping for, 
 no. It's not that. 
  
  And I think that a lot of people kind of were expecting something like that. I can't blame them! 
 We're all sitting around saying, okay, Bioshock was amazing, so what else have you guys got?
  
  Bear with me here - I think that's really what we SHOULD be wanting! I feel the same way - 
 I want someone to just blow my mind already!
  
  So, looking at it from that angle, I can understand the disappointment.
  
  Also, and maybe 
 worse? (and remember, I do really like this game) I feel as though, creatively speaking, I can 
 see the threads showing. Ubisoft clearly spent a ton of time on creating these amazing (AMAZING!) 
 cities, and making the coolest video-game climbing engine that I've ever seen. But, they didn't 
 have time to finish everything. There's some clipping, a ton of repeated audio, and some general 
 visual shadiness.
  
  But, man. Just standing on it's own? With all those flaws? It's still a sweet game.
  
  Here's 
 what it comes down to, for me - it looks great, has fun controls, it's a unique experience (in 
 that it's quite a bit different from just about any other game out there) , and it's totally fun 
 to play.
  
  It's a good game!
  
  Honestly, the thing that I want to do most right now is go play some more. If that doesn't say 
 it all, at least for me, what does? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projectpat2280
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a game that comes along only once in a very long time. Its a game that blends 
 amazing visuals, fantastic and fluid controls and a truly engaging story. Many of you know the 
 overall story to Assassins Creed so i wont spend much time there. You play as an assassin named 
 Altair during the third crusade although from the very first load up you realize that Ubisoft has 
 thrown a twist into the game. With that said well get down to what truly makes this game shine.
 
  
  Visuals.
  The game is down right one of THE best looking titles that has ever been released on any console. 
 The cities themselves are unlike anything you have seen in a videogame. Everything from the smallest 
 detail has been captured to bring the Third Crusade era to life. Characters look and move with 
 complete and natural fluidity. Everything Altair does from walking to fighting is breathtaking, 
 Altair movements via the free running will leave you stunned as you watch him bound from one rooftop 
 to another. When it comes time to get down and dirty, the combat looks just as good. Altair is 
 graceful yet powerful in combat, wielding a long or short sword like you haven't seen before. The 
 great visuals truly cannot be stressed enough
  
  Sound.
  The sound is also top notch. From the ambient sounds down on the streets and up on the rooftops 
 is fantastic. The chatter of the market vendors and the bustle of the crowd will make you truly 
 believe that you are part of this world. The score is also amazing and truly fits the time and 
 feel of the game.
  
  Gameplay/Controls.
  This is where Assassins Creed dominates anything in its genre. The controls for Altair, be it while 
 free running or combat is some of the best controls you will EVER encounter in a video game. The 
 transition from a slow jog into an all out sprint up the side of a building is as easy as pressing 
 and holding the RT and A buttons. Before long you'll find yourself bounding and leaping across 
 the holy land as only a skilled assassins could. Some of the most intense and downright fun moments 
 comes from Assassins Creed's FANTASTIC combat system. The combat in Assassins Creed is unlike most 
 other combat systems in that for you to be successful, its all about your timing, not how fast 
 you can mash the face buttons. Sure, f you want you can tap X until your attack breaks through, 
 but chances are you'll be dead long before your first blow connects. The combat, like free running 
 is done by first going into "combat mode" by pressing the LT, once there the player can begin to 
 swing away or, by pressing RT, go into a defensive mode where timing is key. Once you see an enemy 
 begin his attack, a careful timed tap of the X button will execute some of the most brutal quick 
 kills ever captured.
  
  Closing Comments.
  Assassins Creed is simply a game that must not be missed. Its one of the best action/adventure 
 games to ever grace consoles. Everything blends together perfectly to create arguably the most 
 exciting experience that one can have in videogames. If i had to point out a flaw, and it is VERY 
 tough to do so, i would say that there is some repetition but everything works so well and is so 
 much fun, that it can go completely unnoticed. As others have stated, its a game that simply cant 
 be missed and one that you and your friends will talk about all the way into the next generation 
 of video games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tienesmipelo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The levels did tend to get slightly repetitive, but since they were revealing plot as you went, 
 it didn't seem too bad. I got tired of saving citizens, though. It was interesting to see the plot 
 unfold, though it seemed fairly obvious that your master had another agenda. It was interesting 
 to find out what that agenda was, though. I enjoyed the combat system, though a little unrealistic, 
 it was still a lot of fun to play with. All the voice acting seemed really good... except for Altair's. 
 I don't know if it was supposed to be that way, but it was weird. Free-running and exploring the 
 levels were amazing to play around with. Climbing 500 feet up a tower, and then diving into a pile 
 of hay never got old. I loved it the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MF5K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This has been my personal most anticipated game of the year. It lived up to everything I hoped 
 and more.
  
  The story kept me wanting more. I couldn't put down the controller I wanted to know what would 
 happen next. The story does became a bit confusing toward the end, but not enough you can't keep 
 up. The sci fi twist was good in my opinion not to much over the top. 
  
  Game play was fun and smooth. The climbing is the best part of the game. Once you reach the high 
 points and the camera swoops around to show the city, its just amazing looking. This game reminded 
 me of playing the Spiderman games. When you do a Leap of Faith off the top of a church its like 
 jumping on the highest point in the city in Spiderman. 
  
  The assassinations are fun to find out how to get to, but the kill kinda lacked that "yes he's 
 dead" moment. Though the scene after is informative to move the story along. 
  
  If I had to change one thing it would be the climbing. Though simple is good it would be nice to 
 have something a little extra when doing it.
  
  All and all this is an awesome game and I recommend to anyone who wants a new twist on open city 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rozzano
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  After one year and hearing all of the reviews this game was worth the wait, i mean theres no game 
 like it out on any system. It is a total new way og gaming its like half oblivion GTA and prince 
 of persia all in one. So i got it today and played it for about 4 hours and i was amazed. The graphics 
 blew me away they were unlike anything ive ever seen, the city's are massivie and u can grab onto 
 any structure and climb it with your free running skills. The horse riding is a good way of transportation 
 and getting there fast and the attack while riding comes in handy at times. The combat is probably 
 the best tho, the counter attacks and the way they fight is unlike anything ive ever seen, its 
 no hack and slash it take perscision timing on counter attacks and you always have to watch over 
 3 guys at one. The hidden blade makes a sweet assassination and is the coolest weapon in the game. 
 Overall assassin's creed is a must own if you like games with lots of sword fights and free roaming 
 its a must have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcole225
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  assassins creed has been given mixed reviews and most of the bad stuff is about its ending...... 
 WATCH THE AFTER CREDIT MOVIE. mkay this game is awesome i mean there r no flaws EVER!!! i mean 
 the plot may sound stupid but u have to watch the beginning and play it. ITS NOT  
 ITS A MUST BUY BUY IT NOW OR I WILL USE MY ASSASSINATION SKILLS THAT I LEARNED FROM MY XBOX CONTROLLER 
 AND PRESS X ALL UP ON U (X IS THE ATTACK BUTTON) . I JKING BUT THIS GAME IS MAD PIMP JUST RENT IT 
 AND THEN SEND UBISOFT 60 BUCKS FOR CREATING IT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamp28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  I love the open environments and really really fun assassinations. Also even though the fights 
 are repetitive there still fun. Not much of a complaint A interesting story. Theres a huge spoiler 
 within the first cut Scene but not enough to kill the game. The Professional Assassinations like 
 ones that move the story foreword are fun and challenging. Also AMAZING graphics
  THE BAD
  Easy, Its really easy. You can stab a guard in broad daylight with 50 witnesses and nothing will 
 happen. You can run and climb on walls and no one says anything. The only thing you need stealth 
 for is when you do a professional assassination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the game is good just not worthy of a 9 in my opinion. Unless that is you are 
 basing it off of the story and the amazing climbing physics, then yeah a 9 seems suitable.
  
  But from what I have played it seems just plain repetitive. Now picture Spider man and how 
 repetitive that was except the fact that you could swing a lot faster then Altiar can climb. 
 
  
  Ok, now throw the character into a world which looks almost exactly the same in each city, building 
 wise, except for some colorful tinted buildings here and there. On top of that do the same lame 
 side missions over and over. Save a civilian, hunt for flags, Eavesdrop, pick pocket, etc. Then 
 climb to high points more times then needed and poof you get Assassins Creed. 
  
  The thing that is great is the main assassinations you have to do to progress the story. Now those 
 are well thought out but in my opinion are shot down because you are running around doing repetitive 
 things to lead up to it.
  
  The game is good, but a potential game of the year? Not in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  As most people have said the graphics/physics/animations are amazing and very well done. Story 
 is also well done that pushes you forward to complete the game. It rarely has any problems and 
 if it does... its barely noticable. The optional objectives are fun to complete aswel collecting 
 "items" but gets boring after awhile. 
  
  The combat is also well done but seems to easy at times but they do pack a hard knock on the head 
 if you get to cocky with the blade. The animation kills are always fun to look at and there are 
 many and also many ways to add ontop of the combo', or counter kills.
  
  Voice acting is top notch and rarely gets annoying, which is a great thing... finaly a game that 
 doesint have stupid lines and annoying voices.
  
  The abilities your assassin has are dope indeed, there is just so many i cant name them all. Only 
 to tell you all they come in handy
  
  Overall so far the game is alot of fun and i really cant stop playing. Only concern i have is that 
 will it last me more then 4 days to beat the game... Thats always a problem with these games these 
 days...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy8_882000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  the beautiful graphics, world and action stealth you are immersed in is absolututly perfect in 
 my eyes, and the gameplay is perfect as well, a style of gameplay i have always been wanting but 
 could never imagine myself... something i have been waiting for since august of last year and it 
 was not only worth the wait but absolutly REVOLUTIONARY and will change the outlook on next gen 
 games for the future... the only slightest doubt i had was the sci fi plot but it is still good 
 as well. This game should be in any collection so either be left out or join the revolution... give 
 it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebeljj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm enjoying the game so far. I was surprised at the way the producers were able to keep the game 
 from getting repetitive. I enjoy free-running a whole lot and finding fun, better ways to assassinate 
 the main targets. As I progress I have to keep changing my strategy and improving it. The characters 
 feel real to. I find myself like and not liking some, and again it surprises me which I do and 
 don't like. The graphics are amazing also. The cities are well done and vast. I love exploring 
 them and I have a feeling the flags are going to drive me crazy, along with some other achievements. 
 Definitely glad I picked this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman4Life1217
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a one of a kind game. People may complain about the story, but I think it's a rather interesting 
 premise that when you first hear about it, doesn't sound like it works for this type of game, but 
 when you actually play it and see how it unfolds, it works like a charm. I won't spoil it, so that's 
 all I'm going to say regarding the story. The gameplay is fantastic. Some people liken it to the 
 first Prince of Persia: Sands of Time game, which wouldn't be a far stretch, but this is more intense. 
 The assassinations and sword play are very well scripted and thought out. It gives off that air 
 of realism without veering into the overblown territory, while still managing to be fun and engaging. 
 I would would most definitely recommend this game to any fan of platformers and action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathiasX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Its very nice to see a game with such rich historical documentation in it. The "Hashshashin" were 
 among the first assassins in the time period in which the game takes place. Altair, our hero... 
 takes on an egotistical personna in dispatching enemies which adds a new flavor to the "hero" role 
 in a game. The world itself is immense with many cities to travel to and assassinate enemies as 
 you please. If you want to walk around and take in the area of Damascus and or Jerusalem you can, 
 or you might want to run from rooftop to rooftop and enjoying the view from above. Assassins Creed 
 is a beautiful game all around but seems to suffer a bit of repetitiveness when it comes to the 
 AI, such a thing is easily overlooked with a great story and voice acting. If you are looking for 
 a historically accurate game with great graphics, sound, playability then this game shouldn't be 
 passed up. Buy Assassins Creed and live the life of the worlds first great assassins!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, i waited a lot for this to come out. i just love each n every thing about this 
 game my friend bought 360 only for this game yesterday after he saw me playing it, this is one 
 of the best biggest title of the year i must say and this is a MUST buy game the graphics are so 
 cool game play is better than ever i cant stop playing it at all, jade raymond The producer of 
 Assassin's Creed and all the team members have done a brilliant Job in other words i dont have 
 any words for this game. i love it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazak22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome, gameplay can't get any better, camera angle never gets annoying, only 
 one downfall to this game is bad Ai. When i am against a mob of about 5 guys only 1 guy will attack 
 you at once. all i do it hold RB and then his X when their about to attack to counter the attack 
 and with that i can those any batter no matter the numbers. This game needs to make it so you have 
 to run away, not run just because u have to to beat the game. But besides this the game is awesome 
 and i love the story line. totally unexpected. 
  Cant wait till the make a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawbeast
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  One of the best game's i have ever played the game content it great. if you like stealth game's 
 this one is for you! graphics are great sound is awsome the AI is very good the NPC work well in 
 the game unlike other games out there were the NPC seem to just be there and that is about it if 
 you know what i mean. FOne of the best game's i have ever played the game content it great. if you 
 like stealth game's this one is for you! graphics are great sound is awsome the AI is very good 
 the NPC work well in the game unlike other games out there were the NPC seem to just be there and 
 that is about it if you know what i mean. Fighting is good to good motion. ighting is good to good 
 motion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YvonnelBaenre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is certainly a fun game, in which one gets to stalk various targets and then climactically 
 finish them off using the game's decent combat system, and then run away in three dimensions by 
 taking advantage of and utilizing the well-implemented and pleasurable-to-use vertical scaling 
 system. However, I found that the tasks required to stalk someone do get repetitive. I mean, can't 
 they have varied it a bit more? Also, I think it'd be better if the plot twist came sometime after 
 the beginning; because of this mistake, the plot doesn't hold too well.
  
  Nevertheless, Assassin's Creed is truly an excellent game, certainly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING GAME! This is what next-gen is all about. Of course I can find some flaws in it.. .but 
 I give it a 10 simply because of the innovation and beautifully created world. This game is VERY 
 FUN, and addicting enough to pull me from Halo 3, Call of Duty 4, & Crysis.
  
  I can see this series going much further than Prince of Persia could ever dream of.... it could 
 very well be the best of this stealth genre as the sequels come out.
  
  DEFINITELY A MUST FOR ANY TRUE HARDCORE GAMER!
  
  And PS.... I recommend doing everything you 
 possibly can in this game for maximum satisfaction. I don't think it's repetative.... sure certain 
 aspects are but aren't all games if you think about it? FPS is just run and gun, or tactical and 
 shoot..... these type of games are just stealth, etc... but the way it intertwines with the story... 
 it's just great. What else could you want? It's true to it's based-timeline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  At first I was turned off by the future twist to the storyline - but later by the end of the game 
 I was annoyed. They make you think you are going to get some place in the office area early on 
 as a motivational tool, but really its disappointing when you don't. Either way the game is very 
 lovely when it comes to the control scheme of things, the world is nice - the NPC's which all react 
 to you're movements is also a good touch, you now have to work your way around crowds of people 
 rather then just run into them, unless you want to tackle everyone and throw them from your way. 
 The game is interesting mainly because it doesn't force you down any path - You can be that silent 
 assassin leaping in for a fast, true stealth kill, or you can try to walk into the front door, 
 kill everyone thats in your way - and then hunt down your target. The story ended with them setting 
 up for Assassin's Creed 2 - which is abit of a let down for me really. Being able to step back 
 into memory without starting entirely over would have been lovely as well, some of us (as I did) 
 didn't complete every task or grab EVERY flag... and its rather annoying to do this in my opinion 
 without a guide book. I dislike how companies put objects all over the map to encourage exploration 
 - they should find another means. Altairs movements are solid if you are good with the controls, 
 and while he remains to have a human feel - he also is quick, stylish, and cunning - all of which 
 adds to a good feeling for a player which has control over him.
  
  Pros : Good controls, sounds, visuals, world detail, combat system, free-run system, and assassination 
 system.
  
  Cons : Annoying NPCs - they talk to much when you save them, and you are forced to stick around 
 and listen. Crappy, confusing ending. Collecting flags is annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldflame
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I've played the game for a good 10 hours and I thought, since there is so much discrepancy in reviews, 
 I would give my own impressions for anyone who was still on the fence.
  
  PROS (so far)
  Graphics
  Voice acting
  Free-Running
  Overall interactivity
  Controls
  
  CONS (so far)
 
  On screen text
  
  NEUTRAL (so far)
  Story
  Combat
  Repetitiveness
  Frame rate
  
  That's the long and short of my thoughts so far. The graphics are simply astounding; the amount 
 of work this must have taken is unimaginable and their work truly paid off in this respect. The 
 voice acting, like GT said, is very well done. Even the NPC you just scared the hell out of by 
 leaping from the building behind them is given a distinct voice as they wonder about your sanity. 
 I know a lot of people were worried about the free-running feeling cheap because of the lack of 
 a jump button. Well, it might just be me, but I find the free running incredibly satisfying. Everything 
 looks so smooth that, even though you are only pushing a few buttons, you still feel like a badass. 
 The controls are very simple to get; I honestly don't understand how some people find them difficult. 
 There's nothing that I found confusing at all and I picked up the controls right after the tutorial 
 which, incidently, lasted about 10 minutes. The button function changes when you lock on to a target 
 or are sprinting, but the general functions remain the same; for example, gentle push becomes shove 
 when you are sprinting.
  
  The cons are few and rare; I sat here for a while trying to come up with more but I'll discuss 
 that in the "Neutral" section. The one serious con I can see is the size of the on screen text. 
 There is a very big possibility that it is just my TV, as I am playing on the SDTV I have in my 
 dorm room, but I find myself constantly squinting to try to make out what the hell the text is 
 saying; even with squinting, however, a lot of the text is still illegible.
  
  The neutralities of my opinion are things that I'm still on the fence about. First is the story. 
 There is something that tells me this story will turn out to be very nicely put together and make 
 for a very intriguing twist near the end; already the basic storyline has me intrigued. But, the 
 concept sort of detaches me from Altair. I think this will change as I progress more but I'm just 
 not sure. Additionally, even though his voice is explained in the story and it is preformed very 
 well, I am having a serious problem getting used to the way Altair speaks. I can't say much more 
 than that because of spoilers, though.
  
  Second is combat. The guards have improved quite a bit from earlier videos; they do not just wait 
 their turn to attack. If they see you are getting your ass handed to you in a fight, they are more 
 than happy to jump in and try to finish you off. The thing is, though, that I suck at combat. This 
 is not Ubisoft's fault. This is something I fully believe is user-error but I've not progressed 
 far enough to know if I'm just really awful at fighting or if it is a flaw in the combat design.
 
  
  Third is repetitiveness. Everyone that has ever even heard of this game is sick of the word "repetitive" 
 but there is a degree of truth there. The missions are repetitive in their execution (receive mission, 
 investigate, locate, kill, escape) but I'm finding that each phase, with the exception of "receive 
 mission" and "investigation" can be done a variety of ways. So long as you try to vary your approaches, 
 repetitiveness can be avoided to some degree. Additionally, the level of repetition is also dependant 
 on how entertained you are by free-running. The first two hours I had this game, all I did was 
 free-run and that was incredibly entertaining to me. Every now and then, I make a point to abandon 
 the story line in favor of free-running and creating panic induced chaos in the city.
  
  The final point is framerate. Personally, I see no difference between the two. A friend of mine 
 brought his PS3 over and hooked it up to my roomates TV. We played the tutorial level simultaneously 
 and, I swear, I saw no difference other than the 360 seemed lighter. My friend insists that the 
 PS3 played better but, in all honesty, he's a bit of a fanboy.
  
  Well, there you go. A few unbiased impressions presented to you in a massive wall of text . I repeat 
 that I've not progressed very far and am no where near completing the game but, so far, I would 
 rate this game very high on my grading scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthAsheron
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I can't put into words how great this game is... all I can say is:
  
  "HOLY SHNICKIES.... IT'S FREAKIN' AWESOME!..."
  
  If you're looking for a great game to buy 
 for the upcoming Holiday season, you're checking out the right game. Assassin's Creed is by far 
 the Most advanced game of it's type this generation, this is as perfect as it can be until future 
 games such as the next 2 in the series. The Perfect game for any rainy day, just pop it in and 
 have a blast. 
  
  Pros: AWESOME story, combat, animations, music, interactivty, and a choice between stealth, action, suspense, 
 however you want to play it is your choice.
  
  Cons: confusing ending and beginning ( in my experience ) and the sad fact that a 20-30 year old 
 man can't swim and Altair's voice happens to be the stupidest in the game.
  
  The bright side is all the cons can be easily forgiven. in exchange for altairs voice you can in 
 example: climb any and every wall and building as long as theres a ledge or something to grab ( 
 yes even poles and window edges ) complete interaction with the people, be nice and help them when 
 asked and you'll gain their favor, shove them around, hurt them, or cause chaos and they just might 
 throw rocks and shove you back, not to mention alert the guards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff97000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  great game now go and buy it you will not believe how good this game really
  is so good, good luck with the game if you get it and have fun with it if you do. really if you 
 don't have a copy get one 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conartjumper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  In the past few months there had been rumors of a futuristic story line. Having heard the rumors 
 and opening the game manual to the first page... you confirm those rumors. It was a bit of a let 
 down to me personally, the story seems to be able to stand by itself, with no "Waking from a Dream" 
 scenario that are so popular in media (Family Guy did a pretty funny spoof recently) . After getting 
 through the lengthy tutorial. Your met with a overly long intro to the world around you. 
  The fun really doesn't begin until reaching Damascus. Once through the gate, you truly realize 
 the scope of the game. Using your Free Running (Parkour) is a blasty-blast, but not nearly as fun 
 as saving citizens via your hidden blade through a soldier's neck. The missions are great as well, 
 well thought out attacks on your targets can be very satisfying. The battle system takes about 
 5 minutes to get used to - but once you add more moves to your list, it's butter (that's a good 
 thing) . 
  Beautiful cities, a deep (although initially disappointing to me) story, and plenty of people to 
 "shank" - this makes for a game you should not miss. Just don't forget to talk to Lucy every chance 
 you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirvick
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  From top to bottom, assassins creed is one of the most amazing and atmospheric games up to now 
 to show up. It simply sucks you into its unniverse completely. If you love medieval games like 
 Thief, you'll love this one.
  
  The controls are amazing the graphics are awesome, and you'll amaze yourself with the huge amount 
 of detail that you'll have on your screen without a single framerate hickup, you can can notice 
 some v-syinc issues sometimes when there's too many things on screen but nothing that degrades 
 visual quality.
  
  Voice acting feels just right, but unfortunately the main character lack some type of accent, all 
 other characters lay either some British or foreign accents, but Altair seems to be the yankee 
 loner, that feels out of place.
  
  Well closing comments, Its an awesome game that's a must own for any 360 lover, plus finnaly you 
 got a game that'll last longer than 10 hours average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zademon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  When i heard and saw a few trailers on the internet about this game i honestly thought it would 
 be another game that looks and sounds very good but it will crash any hopes that the player has 
 made for it when it will start. after i got got my hand on it and played it for a while i must 
 say that all the promises that were made were almost achieved. the outside design is totally amazing, 
 the game is very complex and you can do almost anything you could in real life. the game play is 
 also very good and the story is captivating. i hope it has a long story and a long time playing 
 effects because i do not want tho finish this game to soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aevip
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 10
  Gameplay - 9.5
  Sound - 10
  
  ok, well i never gave this game much thought until i got it. 
  a friend of mine had been raving 
 about it for a month.
  so i picked it up and was instantly addicted.
  the first half hour or so are a little slow as its mostly back story and tutorial but its fine 
 because it makes the game more enjoyable afterwards.
  the graphics are astonishing, the shadows are so lifelike its silly.
  sound is perfect. 
  And 
 gameplay, well, MORE ADDICTING THAN CRACK.
  The 'worlds' are HUGE with amazing detail.
  Very smooth game that just sucks you in right away.
  Some parts of the game are a little repetitive, 
 but you wont mind. 
  its sort of like good sex, it can be a little repetitive, but youre always satisfied afterwards. 
 :)
  
  anyway, buy this game, dont even think about it. 
  ITS GRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRREAT!
  
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: livewire29
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game has amazing graphics, the story is so awesome... The fighting system is fluid, and perfect... 
 This is the best game i have ever played... This is a real game for the real true gamers... Everything 
 about this game is perfect... Everything they said while we waited for this game is true and more... If 
 you are a gamer, you are ready for the next gen game this is it... Assassins Creed is the best 
 game of the year, and century... This is a must to buy game.. The wait for the next gen game is 
 here Assassins Creed.. Everything about this game is amzing and perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walliworld
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  First, the bad. Switching to the present day descendant of Altair is unnecessary because you can't 
 do anything. You have to control him and do tasks like evesdrop and goto bed, wtf? And I like the 
 story, but there are too many interludes to the story. But I like that you can move Altair while 
 the story is loading. I also do not necessarily like that you're guided through almost every step 
 along the way. That's all I have.
  
  Second, the good. Graphics are what you expect for next-gen console. Perched on a high rooftops 
 and scoping the landscapes provide amazing views. Everything being tangible and living is a great 
 feature. After getting used to the controls, they're great. Altair is a medevil spider-man. Gameplay 
 is great.
  
  That's all I have to say about that.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhomaster13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I'm pretty much a sports gamer, but this game completely opened my eyes to 
 a new genre. The visual presentation is unmatched and the story will draw you in to the point where 
 it's hard to put the controller down. It completely lives up to the hype and goes beyond what I 
 expected from this game. The learning curve is not as difficult as I thought it would be, especially 
 since I'm used to playing sports games. If you're on the fence about this game, at least rent it 
 and I'm sure you'll be at the store buying it the next day. This is definitely a must-have for 
 your XBOX 360 collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozman_Beyond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Well lets just start with the beauty of this game, its well detailed and so surreal land marks 
 and all. There definitely a lot in this game to keep you occupied for hours with tons of side missions 
 and objectives and I'm just in my first major city between saving citizens, ease dropping, pick 
 pocketing and getting an eagles eye view which are all side objectives, you have a main objective 
 of assignation once you've collected info on your target you go get permission from the Bureau. 
 In other words a lot of depth to this game.
  The only reason I give it a 8.5 is the controls are to simple and no challenge to climbing or fighting 
 its all a one button use I was under the impression the game was going to play like Prince of Persia. 
 The game is still well worth the money. Oh ya remember the glitch in the preview at E3 well so 
 far non have come up yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  A game that pulls you in reminding me of the days I played Oblivion. As any true game does this 
 one takes it up a notch. Graphics are super and the free roam game play is simply amazing. The 
 story behind this game sets it apart from the rest. Truly a work of art by Ubisoft and I hope they 
 follow this title up with another. Halo watch out you have an Assassin creeping up on ya. Worth 
 every minute you play with each view more amazing than the first. History comes to life in a way 
 never seen in a console came before. But do not just take my word for it this game is a must have 
 for anyone who enjoys not just eye candy but great game play. Just one word of advice.... watch 
 the ending and the full credits..... it explains allot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Despite the rumors that the game is repetitive... I have to agree. However, it's repetitive in tasks 
 that I enjoy doing. Sneaking around through thousands of realistic acting NPCs, running on the 
 rooftops, assassinating (duh) , pickpocketing, eavesdropping (literally, dropping from eaves!) , 
 etc. It's all fun. Repetitive, but for me, it never gets old.
  
  Some people may not like the game. I understand that. But if you like these kinds of games, you 
 LOVE this one. You can climb anywhere, which is both fun and extremely annoying (I've never been 
 killed by an enemy... just by my accidentally jumping off a building and splattering on the ground) . 
 Combat, while not particularly difficult, is still fun, but it's not the highlight of the game, 
 nor should you be in combat all that often.
  
  Also, the game IS NOT SHORT, if you are the kind of person to do everything. There are hundreds 
 of hidden flags to collect, many (I mean MANY) of which you'll probably never find unless you use 
 a guide. It's fun to spend time away from killing to finding those flags. There are also 80 templars 
 for you to kill, which are completely optional.
  
  Graphically, the game is spectacular. Easily the best looking game on the system. Despite what 
 losers like IGN say, there are no framerate drops, and no graphic "popping." Also, despite what 
 some people might lie about, the AI is NOT bad.
  
  I'd say if you like stealth games, sandbox-like games, assassin games, or any combination of those, 
 you'll LOVE this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is absolute blast to play. The graphics are stunningly beautiful and the animations are 
 wondeful. I played 4 to 5 hours last night, staying up way later than usual, I was having such 
 a good time with it. 
  The first time I saw a city (Damascus) I just stood there and admired the scenery for several minutes. 
 It's so cool.
  
  The horse riding is really neat. The way it turns, jumps and the sounds that come out when walking 
 over different types of pavement really adds to realism.
  
  The fighting is still a little awkward for me, I haven't got my timing yet. It is very fun though.
 
  
  The game itself is not perfect, nor will a game ever be in my opinion, but this is darn close. 
 The only thing that has annoyed me this game is the repetitive conversations that you overhear. 
 You can be on the roof and if someone is being harassed by a guard, the guard repeats the same 
 thing over and over. It makes you want to kill them just to shut them up!
  The controls are a little awkward and confusing at first but you learn the combos like any other 
 game.
  
  This is a game you have patience for. It's not a wild shooter like Gears of War. You actually have 
 to think about what your doing, not just blasting away. If you have the patience\maturity then 
 you will love this game, the replay value is just about endless.
  
  If I could preorder Assassin's Creed 2 I would... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPhotz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  I've waited for this game since it was announced in '05 as Project Assassin. 5 hrs into it and 
 I'm amazed but I'm already starting to become annoyed at how repetitive the gameplay is and not 
 exactly what I had expected. Don't get me wrong, the game's fantastic and revolutionary in many 
 ways but eavesdrop, pickpocket, save a citizen, and kill this guy over and over again without anything 
 else to do is already getting old. The only reason I want to keep playing it is to find out the 
 rest of the story but after reading some of the other reviews I'm probably going to be let down 
 with that too. The concept of the story is great in my opinion. There was one review I read that 
 said that the idea was horrible to mix up medieval and future but that's the only way to justify 
 the jumping around in the storyline/timeline without dragging it out and becoming boring. It's 
 a great concept and hopefully the next installment will include more things to do as far as side 
 missions. In this game the side missions are actually things you have to complete to a point in 
 order to complete the main objective so they aren't really side missions. Oh well, it's still entertaining 
 although monotonous and the amazing visuals make up for a lot. Better luck next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radracingcru22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Everyone's probably read everything they need to know about the graphics and gameplay and it's 
 all true. But there is one thing I do want to say about the game. The angle they took about you 
 having the memories of all your ancestors in your head and using some high tech machine to live 
 the life of your ancestor is the dumbest storyline I've ever experience in a game. Why not let 
 us just be an effing assassin and leave it at that. They tried to get creative and they failed. 
 It just makes things slow and confusing. At one point you have to walk (you can't run or even job) 
 around as the character in the future.... I've NEVER experienced more of a buzzkill in a game before. 
 Other than that it's a great game!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satan_89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  This game is quite simply put, amazing. This game, even though I haven't fully finished it, is 
 really engaging and really drawing me in. This game isn't perfect though. This game still has it's 
 visual glitches and a couple of other misc. glitches, but I've encountered no glitches that have 
 impeded the game play. I've had some trouble using the map while trying to navigate though Kingdom, 
 and the GPS device isn't very useful. After saying all these things the game's great. The fighting 
 system in the game is flawless and is really engaging and REALLY fun. I've never felt more bad-ass 
 that when I'm taking on 20 people, 4-on-1, and destroying each one of them. The game's story is, 
 so far, really interesting. Having to keep up with what's going on with both sides of this story 
 is really interesting. I won't say anything for the people who haven't played the game yet and 
 don't know what I'm talking about, but just know that this game will get your attention and it'll 
 keep it all the way through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legacyoftain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  
  
  IF YOU HATE TO READ THEN STOP NOW:
  
  So I spent the last 3 days reading all the internet "to-do" about AC... read reviews... forums.. etc. 
 So I finally got my copy last night.. and you know what... It was WORTH every cent. Before I go into 
 detail let me just say that YES.. this game IS repetitive.. but its some of the best repetition to 
 be had in a video game to date.
  
  1st off let me just start of with the games strongest point... Graphics.. are they AS good as Gears? 
 Meh no.. BUT they are some of the most beautiful graphics ever done in a game. When I saw Damascus 
 for the 1st time I literally dropped the controller and said  
 a single tear ran down my cheek. It was a work of art that is just something that cannot be described 
 in words.. Gears made me say "Holy ****" with some cool action moments but it is like comparing 
 a sweet looking comic book to the Mona Lisa... one is on an entirely different level even if the 
 other is better "drawn"... If you didn't know... AC is the Mona Lisa lol. The animations for your 
 character and the environment are just stunning.
  
  Story- Your either going to love this or hate it... I find the story growing on me more and more. 
 I we all know what the "twist" is but I still wont say just in case someone who doesn't know is 
 reading.. I will say this. Thus far the story is rather ingenious for 1 factor. Its not well written 
 per say... but it gives the AC series ALOT of flex room in terms of what the next game will be. 
 So for that reason alone.. Thumbs up.
  
  Gameplay- This is the most important aspect of the game or ANY game bar none... Alot of "good" games 
 are severely lacking in this department. Not AC. The concept of free-running just has a new bar 
 to live up to. If you can see it.. you probably can interact with it or climb it.. dive off it, through 
 it, over it, under it. Altiar will no doubt go down in video game history as one of if not THE 
 most agile non superhuman. This guy can MOVE!... And whats even better is.. so can the guards!... AC 
 does something that many game do not.. make you mortal. You are an EXCEPTIONAL fighter going against 
 VERY GOOD fighters.. meaning the guards aren't just patsy doops that are push overs.. you get the 
 sense that the guards are also highly trained warriors that certainly aren't afraid of the likes 
 of some "upstart" assassin. Try going toe to toe with a Germanic Templar... it ain't so easy. Guards 
 will follow you to the best of their ability which is damn near close to yours.. when you DO manage 
 to run/climb out of their ability.. they will resort to throwing rocks and arrows at you. This just 
 adds to the excitement of the escape. The controls are actually very user friendly (least in my 
 opinion) and the free running button makes ALOT of sense.. if it were all manual the game would 
 be near impossible. However let it be known that even though the free running is "auto matic" you 
 always are in full control of Altair and it always feels that way. Think of this system as a combination 
 of Gears of War's cover button and Strangleholds automatic sliding... only done right. This game 
 is massive... absolutely massive. Not as much square footage as say GTA: SA but certainly more than 
 any other game on the market for next gen. The cities are huge horizontally and vertically.. the 
 country side is also very populated with small camps and towns you can explore and do things in. 
 Overall you will have ALOT to keep you occupied. I suppose if you literally rush and do every assassination 
 rapid fire then yes you can finish the game in about 7-9 hours... but I have put in about 7 hours 
 thus far and only finished my 1st assassination. There is lots of fun and replay in this game if 
 you take the time to have fun with it. The environment is one of the most lush and vibrant I have 
 ever seen. The crowd is as important as the architectures. You have to navigate in a way that doesn't 
 arouse suspicion.. Help the civilians and they will help you escape.. cause trouble for them and 
 they will snitch on you and rat you out of you are being dubious or even try to block you in certain 
 paths. There are propaganda speakers that rally crowds that you can listen to (or as i like to 
 do "silence") ... if you throw a body off a roof people will scream then gather around to see what 
 happened.. they will call for the guards to investigate.. and if your spotted on the roof they will 
 point you out. It makes for a very engrossing experience
  
  Any game that sets the bar in something in my eyes is GOTY material. Gears did it in the dept of 
 intense warfare action.. R6 with its innovative cover and squad commands... Oblivion with taking 
 the Action/RPG concept from PC to consoles and make it work well. AC sets the bar for not only 
 the free-run mechanics.. but for creating one of the best living worlds you can possibly play in. 
 Is this game a MUST buy for every 360 owner? Nope... no game is. Everyone has what they like and 
 don't like (you will never see me own a Guitar Hero game... ever) .. but that doesn't mean a game 
 isn't worthy of GOTY.. will it win? Prob not.. but I think this game will be the 360s Shadow of Colossus. 
 A classic that is an experience in gaming to say the least.
  
  I will say a few bad things about AC though. 1st off you have to try REALLY hard to get use to 
 Altairs voice. When you put it together with the "twist" it makes more sense but it still comes 
 off as out of place every time he speaks. 2nd. You have to have to really be into history and that 
 sort of thing to truly appreciate the grandiose beauty of this game. Ubisoft Montreal did their 
 homework on locations and people of the time. But some of the details will be lost to the average 
 gamer. Also.. There have been more times than I care to say that I have fallen off a roof or building 
 because I am so used to jumping manually (which by the way you still CAN do in this game but it 
 is not as effective) .. you have to really let the control system be a part of you. If you fight 
 how it works you will find your self making alot of stupid mistakes at key moments.
  
  This is all just opinion.. but I give it two thumbs up and one of the best games of the year this 
 far. Kudos Ubisoft Montreal!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: streamer434
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Pretty good game but it could have been alot better. The gameplay isnt as indepth as I expected. 
 When I first stated playin my biggest conern was it becomming too repatitive. So far things arnt 
 too bad but the glitches are a bit annoying. Gameplay is pretty good , the story could have been 
 flushed out more and they could have included a button to speak with people. THe control scheme 
 is very inovation and the annimation is very life-like and believable. You almost feel as though 
 you are taking a leap back in time and you actually there. I personally think that they could have 
 adden a bit more into the game to give it that extra something. Its like fries with no ketchup 
 or cookies with no milk lol. Maybe over time updates will be released for the game that will improve 
 on some of the minor problems associated with the glitches. Over all I think that this was a very 
 innovative ste forward for ubisoft and I hope they continue their innovation throughout the upcomming 
 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tracklantz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I'd been waiting for this game since the day G-spot posted it as an upcoming game. And I can honestly 
 say it was worth the wait!
  
  When people say this game is going to be remembered for years to come, I see that as an understatement. 
 The visual effects are outstanding, they just suck you into the game. As you play you can almost 
 feel the wind rush by you, hear the crowd around you, and sense the tension between the guards 
 and yourself. The controls are very user friendly, I was able to master the buttons in little time 
 at all. The movements of Altair are extremely lifelike, very rarely do you notice any awkward movement 
 by your character. When scaling buildings you don't see him reach for something thats not there. 
 The fight sequences added in with the sounds are other aspects that make this game one-of-a-kind. 
 This is indeed a game thats worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriggaMyke
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin? From the storyline, to the graphics, gameplay, fun factor, sound, everything. 
 This game is absolutely astonishing. If you can tell me a game that can compete, I'd like to hear 
 it. I don't want to get into all the cool aspects of the game that I have enjoyed so far there 
 are way too many to list. I do want to say however, if you played Two Worlds and rode on a horse 
 in that game.. LOL what a disaster; talk about frustrating. I would leave my horse behind and run 
 for miles instead of going through that hell. Riding a horse in AC is very very easy, smooth and 
 realistic. God I love this game, well worth the wait. 10 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing! Even better in HD, I have been playing it on 720p and it is some of the best 
 graphics I have witnessed on the Xbo 360. The game play graphics are crisp and clear, but the videos 
 sometimes are a bit lackluster. 
  - In game graphics are equal if not a little better than those of Halo3, but I feel that Assassins 
 Creed lacks a bit when it comes to videos. 
  - The videos don't seem polished enough and are by no means equal visually to cut-scenes in Halo3. 
 
  - The game play can be a bit repetitive with the interrogations, eaves dropping, saving citizens, 
 and of course the best part, the assassinations. 
  - The controls are a bit different at first and take some getting used to, but once everything 
 is understood the controls seems natural and fluid. 
  - Animations are fluid and smooth; all actions seem and look completely natural. I feel the best 
 job was done while ridding horse back, the horse moves totally natural and comes off almost as 
 real. Moving through the streets and gently pushing people aside is just another fine detail that 
 many people overlook and under appreciate. 
  - The small animation cut-scenes when a counter attack is performed are amazing both visually and 
 creatively, and additionally come filled with intense sword fighting gore.
  - Camera controls could be redefined or tweaked a bit. Sometimes buildings and people get in the 
 way of the camera, but overall it is good. 
  - The leap of faith is one of the most creative and fun ways to get off of tall structures. Sometimes 
 I wish I could miss and just watch my body splat on the ground or inadvertently slam of the buildings 
 as my limp body tumbles to the ground. 
  - Climbing around the city is super fun and a very fast and efficient way of moving around cities.
 
  - Sounds are great! The music is awesome and always adds to the dramatics; as they should. Some 
 of the sound bytes from citizens are repetitive and lack substance but the small talk commonly 
 heard among people is good.
  - The story line is odd and unexpected; I was expecting more of just the crusades, but I'm sure 
 as I continue to play more will be reviled and the puzzle will place itself together. 
  - The game is open ended but with common constraints. Open ended in a sense much like Grand Theft 
 Auto 3, there is room for improvement and additions no doubt but If they gave it to us all at once 
 we wouldn't ask for a sequel and fewer new things could be added. 
  
  In the end, everyone should play this game and for a few hours to truly get a feel for the game. 
 Ubisoft took a big gamble with this new style of game play but it paid off handsomely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  After more then a year of solid coverage and some of the biggest gaming hype in recent memory, 
 it seems everyone is asking themselves the same question now that AC has finally arrived... Could 
 it really be as good as I expected, or is it actually as horrible as some sub-par game reviewers 
 would have you believe? Well, the truth of it (from my perspective) is that it falls somewhere 
 in the middle, with a slight lean towards greatness.
  
  I won't bother with the story details; everyone knows what AC is about, and most people also know 
 its uber-hyped "twist" at this point. I won't spoil it in case anyone doesn't know, but suffice 
 it to say that it only remains hidden for a few minutes, and while it was largely derivative of 
 a certain series of sci-fi/action moves in recent memory, it was a fantastic way to implement the 
 game system into the story line/time frame of the character, and one of the best explanations of 
 why there's a HUD on your screen to date.
  
  Visually, this game is something to just marvel at. It is simply one of the best looking games 
 ever made. The animation is outstanding, the lighting/shadow effects are absolutely amazing, and 
 the draw distance combined with the model and texture detail of the environments has stopped me 
 dead in my tracks on several occasions. 
  
  With that said, there are a few graphic issues that aren't exactly up to par with the majority 
 of the game. For one, there seems to be a bit of a sliding scale in terms of character model quality. 
 Most of the main characters look simply outstanding, and show more detail then any game to date. 
 Some of the NPCs however lack the same level of detail, and virtually all of the characters seem 
 to suffer from the same issue that many of this gen's games do. They have this super-polished plastic 
 type of sheen to them that looks very unrealistic at times. There is a fair bit of aliasing on 
 some objects, including certain characters heads. A few times the main character will be shown 
 (when hoodless) in profile, with the top of his head looking a bit like a staircase. There is also 
 a tiny bit of flickering on some of the smaller details on buildings such as window sills and cracks 
 and such.
  These are all minor complaints however and only come to mind at all because the rest of the game 
 is just so beautiful.
  
  The sound effects too are excellent, with all the tiny little details in place that make a game 
 world come alive. If your horse walks across stone it sounds completely different then grass, voices 
 blend into crowds, and even the ambient noises are right on track with wind and birds hear when 
 standing at higher elevations. Some reviewers have complained about the voice acting (largely about 
 the main character) , but I have not experienced anything remotely complaint-worthy about it. The 
 main character is not going to win an Oscar for this, but he is more then adequate, and has not 
 bothered me one iota.
  
  Control is the main issue for any game, and AC completely nails it. The developers have taken the 
 "Zelda style" of automatically interacting with your environments and ran with it, and the results 
 are absolutely spectacular. You simply point your assassin in the direction you want him to travel 
 and he goes. It works flawlessly, and every second of controlling the main character it is a treat. 
 The devs should be applauded for what they have accomplished here.
  
  Finally, we get to the game play. I have been anxiously waiting over a year to play this game, 
 and I can definately say that it was worth the wait. I am about halfway through the main campaign, 
 and I can honestly say that I have not been bored, or felt like I was marred in repetition once 
 in the entire experience. Granted, I can see why some people could come to that conclusion as each 
 "level" (city) features essentially the same game concepts, but since they are such a treat to 
 experience, it has not gotten at all old to me yet. Saying this game is repetitious is misleading. 
 You will certainly repeat the same types of events several times, but they are typically varied 
 in some way, and I personally have never stopped and thought, "oh crud, not this again", like I 
 have in other games. 
  
  There were also complaints about the game forcing the player to sit and listen to NPCs talk, but 
 I think that people may have been misunderstanding the whole point of those moments. It's not that 
 the developers thought these eavesdropping scenes would be particularly exciting to play through; 
 they are just keeping all of the story elements out of cut scenes and placing them in the actual 
 game play. I think it helps to keep the player immersed in the experience, and I have yet to be 
 bothered or anxious during any of them. They give you information about the story and your target, 
 would people rather sit and watch rendered movie files instead? I wouldn't...
  
  The crowd aspects of the game seem to have gotten a lot of attention, and I'm honestly a bit confused 
 about that. While the numbers of characters walking around definitely adds to the realism of the 
 game, they seem very artificial to me, and largely play no real role in the game. Sure, it looks 
 pretty cool when they scream and scatter if you jump off a building or kill a guy, but they also 
 seem to elicit almost no response if you are beating a guy in an alley or simply push them. This 
 lack of interaction with the NPCs in general is one of my bigger issues with the game actually. 
 You have this huge sprawling city full of merchant's shops and beggars, but they really have very 
 little impact on anything you're doing. I'm not sure what use it would have had exactly, but it 
 feels odd that you can't talk to people, or shop at the merchants stands... I also found the whole 
 crowd dynamic to be much less important then I was led to believe in previews, and even the introductory 
 tutorial to the game. You get the impression that not blending in with the crowd will be a detriment 
 to your camouflage, but it barely seems to matter really. I have run right through crowds knocking 
 people over left and right with very little response from guards at all. The same goes for the 
 women carrying the pots on their heads. They have this system set up where you can gently push 
 them so they don't break their pots, but it hasn't as of yet really mattered when they did...
 
  I have heard that the difficulty level ramps up towards the latter levels of the game though, 
 so maybe these things will play a larger role as I move forward.
  
  The fighting engine has taken a lot of slack, and I'm on the fence about it personally. The fights 
 look great, are a lot of fun to play, and are not the dancing simulation I was expecting after 
 reading other reviews, but they are also WAY too easy, which takes away a large bit of the game's 
 appeal. If the entire concept of the game is that you must be stealthy to avoid guard attention, 
 you have to "punish" me in some way when it does happen. If I can win a battle with 14 armed guards 
 surrounding me without getting hit, where is my inspiration to avoid them? I did find them to be 
 a bit more enjoyable as the game progressed, giving you more options for each fight, and every 
 now and then I'll sheath my sowrd and just fight them off by hand and with my concealed dagger 
 for a bit more variety.
  
  Similarly, the escaping mechanism could use a little work as well. It is an absolute blast to run 
 away from the guards, but places to hide seem a bit too abundant at times, the guards seem to overlook 
 you regardless of how many times you use the same hiding spot, and they give up the chase way too 
 quickly in my opinion. For example, I could flash a sword at a guard on a rooftop to have him chase 
 me, and I would only have to hang off the side of the building for a second to get him to forget 
 all about it. I could also repeat this a dozen times on the same guard in the same spot, and he 
 would never catch on. 
  
  So, essentially, to really enjoy this game you need to suspend your own disbelief a bit. If you 
 "pretend" while you're playing that you really will be better off avoiding guard attention then 
 you'll probably have a lot more fun. 
  It's true that you will repeat some aspects of the game such as pick pocketing, fighting with guards 
 and well, assassinating people, but they all control so well and look so outstanding that it's 
 tough to get bored regardless of how many times you do each task. Simply running around climbing 
 the buildings is a blast, and thankfully a large part of the game play. This game may not fare 
 well with your typical Madden enthusiast, but anyone who enjoys stealth games, plat formers, or 
 action games in general will feel right at home here. 
  
  I will now start the anxious pining for AC2. If the developers can nail down just a few of the 
 issues with the AI, add some more variety to the assassination methods, and make the environment 
 a tiny bit more interactive they will end up with a legendary franchise in the future.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BooBakerBrown
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  I happen to be a fan of the time period the game takes place. It was the biggest selling point 
 for me. The locale, the historical presence & events, & the way they dressed had me hook, line, 
 & sinker. I love the movies depicting medieval times & the knights of that era such as Kingdom 
 of Heaven. Then you factor in the mystique surrounding The Templar Knights, The Hospitallers, & 
 Sal-adin (however you say his name) , & King Richards crusade to regain the holy land was wicked 
 sweet. If anyone one of you have ever read about Freemasonry or of the Knights Templar will get 
 a kick out of this game. For all those nay-sayers & skeptics I challenge you to pick up a history 
 book or watch the History channel regarding this time period & tell me you don't think that era 
 wasn't cool as sh$%.
  
  If some of you guys take a step back & just admire the game for it's historical depth & research 
 you may find the game to be better than you had originally thought.
  
  But still, there's not much I can say that everyone else hasn't said already except... Screw the 
 story, I just like killing folks & finding the hidden flags & such. The only real thing I didn't 
 like about the game was the lil' beggin hoochie mommas that would (very persistanly) beg you for 
 money. I just got tired of them & started shoving the hidden blade in their guts. That way they 
 wouldn't have to beg for cash any more. They'd be too dead to worry about buying food or feeding 
 their crack addiction. 
  
  
  If I only had a 60" HD Plasma T. V. Well, Even without it the game is breath-taking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Firstly I have to say that Assassin's Creed is easily a must own for anyone that enjoys games. 
 The drop dead gorgeous cinematic graphics, the excellent story, the great acting, the living breathing 
 cities and the engaging and fun gameplay are just top notch.
  
  It is just a blast to sneak, eavesdrop, pickpocket and of course fight and assasinate your way 
 though this BLOCKBUSTER quality piece of art. There are moments that are just jaw dropping amazing 
 and they seem to happen just about continuously ... lol...
  
  Make no mistake I would rate this game as revolutionary.
  
  However... 
  
  The game play 
 does feel a bit repetative at times, and the assasinations and other game play elements while excellently 
 done do have a scripted feel almost clunky interative feel. When compared against other next gen 
 titles like Bio-Shock, Oblivion and Gears of War, that also pulled off the same level of polish, 
 Assassin's creed definitley is lacking a bit on the fine control and feel scale.
  
  Overall, I love and will buy games like this but, Assassin's Creed feels less interative than I 
 expected and more along the line of a blockbuster movie. Sometimes this fit's my mood, "like now", 
 othertimes I like having more control over my character's every combo, step, jump and swing... 
 
  
  In summary, I like this direction in gaming, as long as it remains a niche and doesn't overwhelm 
 all games. Cinematic is great... but, so is player driven gameplay. That being said Assassin's 
 Creed shows just how great Cinematic games can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kageyasha021
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  It seems that the since the release of Halo 3 the bar has been set that much higher for other game 
 programmers making a game like Assasin's Creed a potential hit instead of just another next gen 
 game that people return for store credit. 
  
  This game was a big surprise to me considering the fact that so many other great titles had already 
 been released these past two months. I always had this title on my radar however even the gameplay 
 trailers released by the developers left me a bit skeptical prior to its release on the 13th. It 
 didn't seem possible to have a game with such a free range of motion and open decision making. 
 Now I am very familiar with the GTA series and its "open environment" however I have never seen 
 that game on a next gen either, so with a combination of my high expectations and the odds of failure 
 against me I was certain Assasin's Creed would be another disappointment; however, my doubts were 
 set aside ten minutes into gameplay with an interesting tutorial and seemingly easy control scheme. 
 
  
  Ultimately AC is a well rounded game worthy of higher praise than I give it but as I thought there 
 are a few elements of the game that leave me stumped. Periodically throughout the game the character 
 will phase through the bodies of the people and much like the disappointments of the early GTA 
 games, the stealth assassin who can leap off a 200 ft building and survive, CAN'T SWIM! I know 
 this has very little to do with being an assassin but come on. Nonetheless the rest of the gameplay 
 is very smooth, controls are very easy to pick up (to the average gamer) , and once the player gets 
 a firm grasp on the configuration the game becomes much easier. I hate to say this, but this game 
 will probably have several sequels, much like the Hitman series or Splinter Cell franchise.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixthis4me
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I've pretty much been looking forward to this game since I first heard about it ohhh 6 months 
 ago. What a dissapointment!! First of all, whoever came up with the idea to make a "matrix" style 
 story to coincide with a crusade era assassin needs to be fired. The gameplay is incredibly repetitive, 
 the story is long and boorish and when it ends I couldn't help but laugh at how stupid it was. 
 On top of the fact they were blatantly just leaving it open for a sequel, as if to say to people 
 "thanks for your 70 bucks, come back soon ya hear?" The gameplay is clunky, and although the graphics 
 are incredible that hardly makes up for the repetitive, and in the end, just plain boring gameplay. 
 I mean really, they couldn't come up with anything other than "go pickpocket this guy, eavesdrop 
 on this guy, ok now go kill this guy and listen to 5 minutes of bad voice acting. Rinse and repeat." 
 I'm pretty pissed as you can tell, but i've come to expect more from Ubisoft. And while my review 
 is pretty harsh, there are some redeeming values in the game.... like the graphics... i guess. 
 /sigh I should have picked up COD4 instead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is awesome.
  
  And that's all anyone needs to know, really: Assassin's Creed is awesome. But a four word review 
 doesn't do much to sell the product, so let's begin with the basics: The game is a stealth action-adventure 
 title developed by Ubisoft Montreal, who use the newly designed Scimitar Engine to make our protagonist, 
 Altair, punch, climb, and fly through the streets of Jerusalem with the utmost of fluidity. And 
 he needs that agility - Altair is a member of the Hashshashin sect of Islamic assassins who finds 
 himself demoted to the lowest ranks of the organization after he abandons the titular "Assassin's 
 Creed" and botches an important mission, thus proving that hubris gets you nowhere in life. That 
 takes us to the "present", where Altair is assigned a series of assassinations to stay the tides 
 of war.
  
  The first thing that people tend to notice when observing a trailer for Assassin's Creed is how 
 amazing the graphics are, a casual observation that turns into a jaw-dropping experience when you 
 boot up the game for the first time. Simply put, Assassin's Creed is beautiful. The areas are huge, 
 the colors are crisp, and the characters move as realistically as one would believe a man would 
 move while leaping twenty feet between buildings. The first time you scale a minaret and get an 
 aerial view of Arsuf, be prepared to be amazed by every crumbling wall and boarded window that 
 you can see for a ten mile radius, a view that is enhanced tenfold if you have access to a HDTV. 
 Amazingly, if you exclude the opening CGI movie that plays before the title screen, you never relinquish 
 control during the game. You can fiddle with the camera during the opening sequence and you can 
 change your focus during the game's numerous cutscenes. You can even practice your attack combos 
 while the game is loading up one of the three main cities. The only issue preventing the game from 
 achieving an all-around graphical gold medal is the fact that the faces lack expression. Some of 
 the encounters are emotionally-charged (especially those that occur in the present/future/white 
 room) , and though the lips always sync up to the voices, the characters tend to only look blankly 
 at one another. When your character is desperately asking for an explanation to explain the situation 
 he finds himself stuck in, shouting as though his life depended on it, it's admittedly disappointing 
 to see him staring absently at the other person.
  
  But that drawback is easy to ignore. You can run around while the doctor is speaking to you (following 
 along with the "never give up control of your character" notion) , or you can sit back and listen 
 to the characters' dialog like you ought to. The story is fascinating, and as long as you don't 
 take a detour to collect King Richard's flags, you'll find that there is never a long dry spell 
 in its narrative. The characters enunciate well, which is a good thing, since everyone aside from 
 a few key characters is speaking in heavily accented English. Those lacking the Arabic and French 
 accents have American ones that fit their parts well, even if they do have a tendency to stray 
 into the dreaded overacting territory. Your character is the typical rebel badass with the typical 
 gruff voice that growls his lines. The doctor featured in the intro sequence sounds scholarly and 
 his assistant possesses a nondescript young female voice that chimes in every now and then. And 
 they all look good while doing it.
  
  Just like your protagonist looks good climbing across the various Middle East cityscapes in the 
 game, which you'll be doing with both great frequency and ease. The game employs a marionette system 
 that is simple to master: You use the A button to control your legs, the X and B for your arms, 
 and Y button (designated for your head) allows you to survey the surrounding area. These controls 
 change according to whether you're in a low profile situation, high profile, or mounted on a horse, 
 and thankfully the right hand corner of the screen is devoted to reminding you what the buttons 
 do in each particular situation. Most of the time you'll be running around on rooftops, holding 
 down the A and RT buttons to have your character leap from scaffolding to dome to whatever else 
 the city has erected along its outskirts. If you can see it, you can climb it, which provides you 
 with a great deal of freedom during the exploration treks you will probably find yourself performing.
 
  
  Besides the acrobatics, you'll be spending a good deal of time jumping in and out of combat. Since 
 the game is fairly open-ended about your goals, you can engage and avoid enemies in a number of 
 ways. The most obvious solution is to fight the city's knights, either through the sneaky assassination 
 kills or openly unsheathing your sword. The handful of weapons can be used to quickly dispatch 
 your problem through a series of combo hits and counter attacks. Both of these hits can be accomplished 
 through tapping the X button repeatedly, and since the AI is on the dull side - most fights they 
 spend their time standing around in a circle like the incident is a heavily-armed dance-off - you 
 should soon find yourself victorious. Unfortunately, the slaying of this armored annoyance also 
 causes new ones to arise when new enemies discover evidence (i. e. dead bodies) strewn about the 
 alley. You could jam the X button to victory again. Or you're second option is to escape, which 
 basically brings you back to the acrobatic aspect of the game. Steer Altair through the narrow 
 streets of Acre, then maneuver him up buildings or use any number of hiding places available to 
 you: There are benches and groups of scholars that you can use to blend into the crowd. Press A 
 and there! - you're instantly camouflaged thanks to a flock of white-robed men. Or if you'd rather 
 hide, you can run into rooftop canopies or bales of hay that are best (or most impressively) reached 
 by performing a fifty foot dive off a building.
  
  Flag capturing was already mentioned briefly, which is one of a few diversions your character can 
 indulge in. All side quests are a "collect them all" fare; by that I mean that you can set out 
 to ascend to the top of all viewpoints, or save all the poor citizens in a city, and with each 
 side quest having at least a dozen components to bring a completion checkmark next to the task, 
 you can find yourself wasting hours trying to kill every last Templar. Doing these tasks does not 
 go unrewarded - aside from Achievement points to look forward to, Altair's synchronization bar 
 (think: futuristic health bar) raises when you complete a certain number of these side quest components. 
 You'll need that synchronization energy when you set out to finish the game's various assassinations, 
 which is accomplished through a series of small assignments. Some of these assignments are simple 
 - for example, eavesdropping is as easy as sitting on a nearby bench and targeting your person 
 of interest to hear what he has to say - but others are downright frustrating. More specifically, 
 I'm talking about some of the assassination information sequences, which essentially require you 
 to stealthily take out a person's target before he'll spill the beans about your mission. What's 
 so aggravating about this job is not the taking out of the adversary, but the fact that if you're 
 caught (and believe me, you will be) , you're forced to slay the other guards, run back to the informant, 
 and listen to him explain the situation to you once again. Run out a second time, and pray you 
 won't get caught again, because if you do, it's time to listen to the man complain a third time, 
 a fourth, and his diatribe can get old really fast.
  
  Thankfully, there aren't a whole lot of information sequences to get through, and you'll be spending 
 most of your time sneaking through the streets and having fun. Because this game is fun. And beautiful. 
 And innovative, with the introduction of a new control scheme that gives players more command over 
 their rebellious assassin as he hops in and out of the shadows. People who have enjoyed Prince 
 of Persia's atmosphere, or the sandbox feel that games like Gun or Crackdown or the ubiquitous 
 GTA series possesses, or anyone who is interested in trying out a Game of the Year contender is 
 best running out to their nearest gaming retailer and snatching up a copy of Assassin's Creed. 
 They'll be happy they did, because Ubisoft produced one of the most enjoyable titles of 2007.
 
  
  
  Pros:
  - Engrossing storyline that throws in a couple twists and intriguing characters along the way.
 
  - Game contains some of the best graphics seen to date, with nothing pre-rendered and everything 
 bathed in rich color and intricate detail. Oh, and did I mention that almost any location in the 
 game can be climbed? Because it can.
  - Intuitive and innovative control scheme that allows you to easily hop from rooftop to rooftop.
 
  -Satisfying sound quality overall, with quality sound effects (the offstage shout of a religious 
 zealot, the unsheathing of a sword, the breaking of a terracotta vase) and fanfares, and the voice 
 actors are generally well cast.
  - Long game that should last you over fifteen hours to completion, with a huge map and plenty of 
 side missions to keep you entertained even longer.
  
  Cons:
  - AI is a bit on the stupid side, and running from them can become repetitive after a few encounters; 
 this holds especially true when you're trying to complete some of the intelligence gathering missions.
 
  - Some of the voice acting is a little over-the-top.
  - The writing on the map is too small to read easily; you can pull up the legend and squint at 
 the tiny, Dead Rising inspired writing blurb next to the picture.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivendidoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Most games will give you a story, but hardly any gameplay. Others will give you great gameplay, 
 but never enough story to question even what you are doing inside the game. Thankfully, Assassins 
 Creed delivers on its pronounce gameplay mechanics of perfect control and intriging story.
  
  Controls are not to over the wall, nor are they too simplistic. Each action has a very simple 
 contectual feel such as ledge grabbing, or counter attacks. Each has its timing and its push of 
 enough intensity to grit the teeths of indivuals who might not have the consept of timing down 
 enough, but will learn quick if they die often from it. Its the controls really that set it over 
 the top. If you look for ever button used to make an attack or action, you will notice the buttons 
 are either one or two press in conjunction with holding the right trigger. Oddly enough the simple 
 controls give it less of a button masher, and more of a ballet of war than God of War's adrenaline/sugar 
 concoction of mayhem. With subtlty, assassins creed walks by with a smile on its face and laugh 
 at other game control schemes with ease.
  
  Story never has its moment of *WTF*, but more of, it never ceases to give you an explanation of 
 why something is there, such as the health bar, or why you get stabbed in the beginning. There 
 are always questions when a conflict rises up in the game, but it is hardly ever looked over. The 
 ending (I believe) explains something far beyond the scope of an original game, but also keeps 
 you wanting another installment which is just what ubisoft wants, a new IP and another Franchise. 
 
  
  AI is perfect, and nothing feels out of place. Some miner clipping and camera placement can feel 
 a little out of place in the midst of battle, but the scope, variety, and sheer amount of people 
 definatly make up for the small mishaps, considering there is always some minor detail developers 
 hardly have time for, its amazing developers even finsh a game normally on time considering the 
 amount of work needed. But you will never tire of killing innocents or murderous fat guys in games.
 
  
  All around, Assassins Creed delivers on every fundemental aspect one could expect from a history 
 inspired game, innovation, creativity, and the ability to think outside the box of normal storytelling, 
 cause is that not what video games are? Are video games not the modern day advancement of story 
 telling? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbafan244
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  it is probable the best game since halo and i almost like it better then halo. beautiful graphics, 
 its fun and exciting and so addicting. i would reccomend to anyone. i think it is revolutionary 
 and i hope they make more. i cant stop playing and probably wont. yes there is no xbox live or 
 multiplayer, but thats ok. would not have minded a co-op game type but still one the top 3 games 
 ever made. the story is wonderful and long. a few twist and turns but what do you expect out such 
 a masterpeice? the game was not too hard and not easy it was just right and thats something i respect 
 and am very glad they did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnord_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I was rather pissed when I found out the PC version of this game got pushed back to 2/08, but I 
 ended up getting the 360 version anyway. I'm glad I did.
  
  The storyline, gameplay, music, environments, and everything is so immersive. 
  
  The basic 
 storyline is that you are a guy from the somewhat near future who was an assassin. You got captured 
 by scientists, and they make you lie on a machine called an Animus that let's you control your 
 distant ancestor through genetic memory. Your ancestor was an Arab assassin and he must kill several 
 higher up Crusaders. 
  
  You can climb walls, posts, or anything within reach. If there's a handhold of some kind, you can 
 use it. It's like a vast parkour course. The controls can be a bit oversensitive at times, and 
 at other times they don't seem to respond, but I think that was mainly from low batteries in my 
 controller. 
  
  The combat is amazing. You have all kinds of special moves and they look like something from a 
 Jackie Chan movie. 
  
  My biggest complaint is that there are a few mini missions that are not optional, such as one where 
 a fellow assassin sends you on a course to collect a bunch of flags. I don't like challenge missions, 
 as I'd rather just play the meat of the game. Games that throw in various puzzles, challenges, 
 etc into what is otherwise very immersive and amazing gameplay just become annoying.
  
  However, I can forgive that with how great the rest of the game is. Your character is a total badass 
 who can climb like Spiderman. There's too much to talk about succinctly, but lets just say that 
 there are so many innovative and original elements to this game, and it truly is a fresh, new outlook 
 on gameplay. 
  
  The only thing it could be compared to is Prince of Persia. However, the open-ended environments 
 where you can literally use everything you see is much better than the linear train track that 
 the PoP games force you to follow. Plus you have so much more versatility in general.
  
  I really like how the three main cities of the game: Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem, are modeled 
 after the actual cities as they were during the 12th century. In a way it's like a peek into history. 
 The targets you have to kill are all people that actually died in the year the game takes place. 
 
  
  This game is a lot of fun and I recommend it highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionheart1_16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Holy cow this game rocks. I'm not that far into it and I can already tell this is "one of those 
 game" like others before it this is a game that will set a bar and hopefully challenge developers 
 to reach it. It just feels so natural and the environment looks so lived in and dirty but in a 
 good way. It sounds awesome and best yet custom soundtracks (That rocks) it's still early yet but 
 if what I have played is any indication HOLY COW the best is yet to come. This is what can happen 
 when hype and reality meet, get some drinks, go back to reality's place and make a baby. This ambition 
 is what FABLE should have had. I also hope that this game creates a trend that other developers 
 follow for years to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamuja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is very in depth. Everything is "usable", meaning that you can climb on anything. The 
 combative system is pretty cool and could be added onto if there will be a sequel. The only thing 
 that made me a little confused, is the storyline. I don't see why they could of just made it that 
 you actually control Altier in his time period, not a memory activated by a computer. I am overall 
 impressed with the game, I haven't finished it yet but I am pleased with what I see and I hope 
 there is a sequel in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motownboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot like a superstar player on a new team. There's a very small chance that they'll 
 live up to the unrealistic hype placed upon them. I don't think that this is game quite lived up 
 to the hype, but it's still a game that draws you in.
  
  The main character's movement is amazing. This is one of the few games where everything you see 
 is possible. All of the jumping around and crazy stunts are possible and expected really. The innovative 
 way to go about things is a very nice touch, even if it takes a little while to get used to. This 
 is easily the best part of the game as well. Being able to control Altair is very satisfying, as 
 it's a high level of control that immerses you in the game more. 
  
  The story is somewhat jolting, but it's pretty interesting. I must confess that it just seems to 
 interrupt all the fun stuff that could be happening with Altair, so at times it seems like a burden. 
 However, the story is very well crafted, and things fit together by the time you finish. The biggest 
 problem is definitely the unended finish, although that's probably because they want to set up 
 other games in the trilogy. 
  
  The A. I. isn't perfect. It seems odd that people are getting beat up by soldiers until you come 
 to save them (that's a long time to get your butt kicked when you're an old woman) and that sometimes, 
 when assassinating a soldier it's very easy to kill several without any of them being alerted simply 
 by 'blending'. That being said, it's very rewarding to throw a soldier off of the rooftops and 
 hear everyone scream and run in horror, or to see them stop what they're doing to watch you climb 
 a ladder, or even berate you when you throw a beggar.
  
  Overall, however, this game is uber-fun, and that's what it's all about. It's a blast to play, 
 and after finishing the game, I guarantee that I will be playing it more just to finish everything 
 off and mess around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  +++++++++++++++++++++NO SPOILERS HERE+++++++++++++++++++++++ 
 
  
  
  I do not normally say this but, Holy S**t! That's exactly what you will say as soon as you hit 
 the start button and jump into this game! The intro will catch you off guard and you'll be glad 
 it did. There's such an amazing twist at the start that allows you to look at this game and story 
 telling in a completely different standard. You must play this game.
  
  The controls are the smoothest controls I've used since the introduction of the analog stick. At 
 times you forget there is even a controller in your hand and you begin to feel as though you are 
 the main character.
  
  If you haven't played this in HD you must do so. Sorry folks but that standard television does 
 not give this game justice. You need to view the cityscape and land all around this breathing, 
 living world in High Definition. 
  
  The difficulty can range from fairly easy to extremely challenging which is good because they did 
 not have your standard, easy, medium and hard modes.
  
  All in all this is a quick review because I do not want to reveal any of the storyline, you need 
 to see it for yourself and you will not be disappointed. Do yourself a favor and pick up this title 
 as soon as you can, I did and have yet to be disappointed.
  
  The only drawback on this game is the fact that when collecting items it doesn't unlock anything 
 but Gamer points, which is fine but it would have been cooler to get bigger reward. 
  
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I have unlocked a few Achievements and if I didn't have to go to work the next day, I would like 
 to have stayed up later. The game looks and feels like a game that you would expect from all the 
 details in magazines and commercials you see on TV. This is an excellent addition to anyone that 
 likes a SOLID single player quest. Very impressive visuals and sounds.... showing the 360 has alot 
 of power to go in the cycle of it's lifespan. Very fun and good story, but throws me off when I 
 see that it's a story of the past with current themes.... kinda confusing.... but makes sense to 
 a point. It seems to be one I will play more than once after I complete to do all the side missions.... but 
 yes, this is worth $60... and I don't say that often. Controls are tight and the beginning shows 
 you everything you need to know.... so no sweat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ant123ant123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing from the controls to the little details of the environment. The visuals 
 are great and most of the NPC's has their own individual looks and attitude. But what i liked most 
 about this game is the many different ways you can play it. Since the whole game is interactive 
 you can scale up walls to avoid the guards or just simply go in hardcore and kill them all. This 
 gives Assassin's Creed that grand theft auto feel where i do what i want, when i want, and how 
 i want to. Another thing that this game delivers very well is the controls. Its just simple clean 
 and complete where the controls cover all of the actions you need to perform. I loved the fighting 
 when i first experienced it. Its basically you in control of your entire character and you can 
 move his legs to dodge or attack and counter when theres an opening. The only bad thing i can say 
 about this is that the storyline is confusing. You start off a some dude who works as a bartender... well 
 you have to play the game for yourself to know cause i don't want to spoil it, but after about 
 13 hours of playing this game i still don't know how to save the game. I'm only hoping that the 
 game is automatically saved at checkpoints but most of the options on the start menu leave you 
 puzzled at times. Also the Main menu is kinda lacking since theres only the "New Game" and "Continue" 
 options. Besides that and the weird ability to change from playing your character ancestors memories 
 or just to walk around as yourself which is confusing as it sounds this game is worth the $60 + 
 tax that you spend. Though i was hoping for some sort of multiplayer XBL to be in the game there 
 isn't which was pretty disappointing. Nevertheless this game earns a 10 out of 10 from me for its 
 outstanding gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruption01
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game looks good, storyline is different, but it's not as good as hoped. all the hype prolly 
 got my hopes up for something better, ground breaking. Fun though, I'd rather rent than buy it. 
 this game is kind of different in some ways, but it's still missing something. The storyline is 
 the best, after reading about it, the reviews kept alot of details out, which was a good thing. 
 I'm playing it now, not because I think it's a real fun game, I just want to see how it's going 
 to end! I guess if you like Role Playing Games, you'll like this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The real question is, should you buy it? I, unfortunetly, dont think this game warrants a buy. 
 It's a very good game, next gen to be sure, but also, some not so next gen things about it.
  
  First the story, if you havent heard, i wont spoil it for you, but it's totally not what your 
 going to expect. However, that's not a bad thing, it's actually quite interesting and i'm eager 
 to learn more about it.
  
  Next, graphics, enough cant be said about them, truly eye candy all around. The controls, at first, 
 are weird, but they fit the game very well and it doesnt take long to get the hang of all the button 
 presses and combinations needed.
  
  Now for the 2 biggest complaints out there, the gameplay and the AI. The gameplay is great, the 
 first few hours - and then, in fact, it does get repetative. You have about 6 things you can do 
 in each city - climb view points, save citizens, eavesdrop, interogate, pickpocket, assisinate 
 your target..... and that's it, in each city, for all 9 assasination missions. and keep in mind 
 you can only save, eavesdrop, interogate and pickpocket certain NPC's, not everyone.
  
  You can't really do much else than that, and you have to collect at least 3 pieces of intel before 
 you can procede to assisinate your target, and from what i've found, it doesnt matter if you have 
 the minimum or maximum, it's the same end result.
  
  For each evesdrop, you MUST sit on a bench and then listen, cant stand and listen, must sit on 
 bench - pickpocketing is just as it seems, and interogate too - just beat the guy a couple times 
 till he talks.
  
  Now the cities themselves are spectacular in display, however the citizens say the same things 
 over and over and over. Of the first 12 citizens i rescued, 9 of them said the exact same thing 
 when saved. Also citizens (and guards unfortunetly) will just randomly spawn out of nowhere.
  
  The AI is not as bad as people make it out to be except in 1 area - when they discover you. 
 They fight fine, and chase you very well. But what annoys me is if your discovered, first you have 
 to break line of sight - which sounds plausible for any stealth game, but what isnt, is that you 
 have 3, count them, 3 places to hide to reset the meter of detection. Hide in a hay bail, a canvas 
 on the roofs, or merge in with scholors. If you dont hide in one of these 3 places, even if your 
 on the tallest tower in the game where no one can get you, your meter will not reset and you'll 
 be kill on sight.
  
  These lack of options wouldnt be so bad if you couldnt get away from a guard by turning a corner, 
 jump in a haybail, wait 10 secs till meter resets, then jump out of the same hay bail with the 
 SAME guard standing right next to you apparently oblvious to what he was doing 10 secs ago.
  
  Plus you cant run in cities, you have to use your blend button, which basically makes you walk 
 really really slow. And even at your normal walking speed, you will still alert guards regardless 
 of what you've done, or if it's the first time you've been in the area, just by moving to fast, 
 unless you use the snails pace blend button.
  
  I know this sounds like a lot of griping, but i was really really really looking forward to this 
 game. And i do enjoy it, it definetly has some oh sh*t moments that make it worthwhile - but it 
 definetly could have been better.
  
  The game does throw in some flag collecting ala Crackdown, but there's no benefit to it, and there's 
 just not enough stuff to do. It's not really sandbox other than the fact you can do missions in 
 any order, but free roaming around does nothing for you.
  
  It's next gen looks mixed with Metal Gear Solid AI make for an entertaining experience, but it's 
 not worth the 65 bucks. Hopefully part 2 of the trilogy will make up for some of these shortcumings. 
 But this is a must PLAY for any xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerebyss
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  
  -Beautiful next-generation graphics. Incredible lighting effects, bloom, shadowing and depth-of-field. 
 This game is a work of art, from the breathtaking vistas to the menu and loading screens. Animation 
 is very well done, especially for Altair- he leaps over obstacles, off buildings, scales walls, 
 and takes down enemies with fluid, life-like grace. And the cinematic kills... simply jaw-dropping. 
 
  
  -Excellent sound design. Ambient effects are nicely done and make the cities come truly alive- 
 chattering voices, crying children, birds chirping, church bells ringing... Combat sounds are sharp 
 and satisfying, and assassination kills pack a satisfying punch. The voice-acting is top notch, 
 though Altair's lines are delivered a little flatly at times. His modern accent (which is deliberate, 
 given the story) often sounds strange in contrast to the medieval accents that the rest of the 
 game's characters speak with, but you get used to it. Music is minimal but quite well-done and 
 lends an epic feel to the game (not as if it needs any help there) .
  
  -Solid gameplay, tight controls, and satisfying combat. Scaling walls, leaping across rooftops 
 and diving off towers is a lot of fun, and Altair performs these acrobatic feats with incredible 
 ease. Combat is often challenging, sometimes a little easy, but always enjoyable. It takes rhythm 
 and timing to pull off instant kills but once you do, it's the most gratifying experience and hands-down 
 probably some of the best 3rd-person combat you've experienced in a game.
  
  -Story is fairly deep and interesting; it could have been so much more, but it's delivered in an 
 artful way that kept me playing through the game.
  
  CONS:
  
  -Gameplay gets repetitive after long play sessions (like Oblivion, Crackdown, and other sand-box 
 games) but I'm still addicted to the game after multiple 5-hour sessions, since everything is so 
 well put-together.
  
  -Some minimal graphics issues, pop-in and flickering textures, like 75% of every other game out 
 there, and is rarely noticeable
  
  -Ambient voices could have used more variation (the beggars, for example, have the same lines and 
 the same voices for every city) but it's a minor issue and one that is easily ignored, It would 
 also have been nice to hear the game music more often.
  
  -Early plot twist should have been saved until deeper into the game as it kind of dumbs down what 
 could have been a great story.
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is INNOVATIVE, BEAUTIFUL, and most importantly, a heck of a lot of 
 fun to play. This is a game that everyone should experience, whether they play it for only an hour, 
 or for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagner995
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  In this game there are few bugs but this doesnt interest... Talking about assassins creed is like 
 talk about the best game of the century. Its very mixed its sometimes hard, sometimes easy and 
 the creators really knew how to mix stealth and fighting so well, thats the best thing of the game. It 
 has a bit of everything making the game be exciting, you have adrenaline and fear from get caught 
 by the furious guards. The game has a little crazy history... but nothing that you say:-OMG! Whats 
 Happening but its understandable. You get sucked in by the game. Its soreallistic that it looks 
 like youre in the game. I REALLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  It pains me to do this, but after writing a wonderful review about this game, I'm extremely dissapointed 
 after playing this game for a while. I can eat my own words now, officially.
  
  The game is based in 3 cities. You assassinate 9 men total. You have 3 levels. In each level, you 
 have to kill one target in each city. After the first level, you go onto the next 3 assassinations 
 and new parts of the cities unlock. And after that first level... you realize, everything leading 
 up to the assassination is the EXACT SAME. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. The fighting is intense. But there is only so much fighting and saving 
 citizens and pickpocketing and interrogating that you can do before it gets old quickly. 
  
  What this company did is focus on the "WOW" factor... you play enough of it at a friends house 
 or a rental and decide, "I have to buy this game!" Then you take it home, get past the parts and 
 realize..."God... it's the same thing... over and over and over again... and I have to do this 6 more 
 times!"
  
  It's the first game on Xbox that I can honestly say after a few hours of playing, I won't be playing 
 it much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opterasis
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  After almost 2 years of waiting, Assassins Creed finally came out. I had read some very mixed reviews 
 over the last few days, and it left me quite worried. But now that I have it, and I've played in 
 over an hour, I must say Im very impressed. The controls do take some getting used to, as they 
 are a bit different than regular stealth or action games, but once you figure it out, Altair, the 
 main charecter moves quite smoothly. The graphics are amazing. My only complaint is the slightly 
 repeatative combat, so if you can get past that, I think most people will really enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  The game looks absolutely amazing there is a ton of detail and it is obviously a high dollar production. 
 some of the cut scenes are amazing and the way you can kill your opponents is fanatastic in both 
 application and looks. there are some flaws though..... the map system is horrible! the icons are 
 way to small and its almost imp [ossible to use it as a refrence at all its very poorly done why 
 they decided to reinvent the wheel for the map i have no idea but they must have known it was very 
 difficult to see the icons. also for some reason even though i have killed no one in the area and 
 will be just passing through certain guards will just attack me without being provoked i wonder 
 why this is it is very confusing they should have used a "hitman" style of gameplay where guards 
 only attack if you have done something that warrants it. overall it looks and plays amazing but 
 there is not as much NPC interaction as i would like and the map is horrible and the game is a 
 bit confusing afetr more playing time ill rewrite my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazanger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Cons:
  gets to be repetitive
  combat gets annoyingly frustrating
  not much variety in the missions
  
  
  Pros:
  still very fun despite the lack of variety 
 and being repetitive
  great story
  beautiful world and cities to explore
  Altair is just plain awesome
  climbing anything you want and jumping from building to building 
 is very fun
  long campaign (20+ hours)
  jade raymond is a babe
  
  
  i would definitely recommend this game. despite not having multiplayer i still found it worth my 
 $60. it's just plain fun, and revolutionary in the sense that the whole world is open to you. hopefully 
 this game will pave the way for more amazing single player games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Really, assassin's creed is amazing. The storyline draws you in from the very beginning, nothing 
 seems out of place. Even the tutorial for how to play the game is crafted neatly into the story. 
 Your "life" display is explained as your synchronization to your memory. You do not "reload" your 
 game, you re synch up with your past memory. Fans of POP will identify this with when the prince 
 would die, he would say "oh wait, thats not how it happened" 
  
  The gameplay is wonderful. The controls are definitely difficult at first, i often found myself 
 accidentally pushing over civilians or jumping of walls to my death. However, you soon pick them 
 up and will be scaling Cathedrals and performing leaps of faith in no time. Assassin's is definitely 
 worth the dough, you'll be hooked from your first kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silencer753
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed delivers!
  
  From the moment you first put in AC, you will be sucked in. Forget what you've heard at IGN, the 
 reviewer must have been paid off :D
  
  Really, assassin's creed is amazing. The storyline draws you in from the very beginning, nothing 
 seems out of place. Even the tutorial for how to play the game is crafted neatly into the story. 
 Your "life" display is explained as your synchronization to your memory. You do not "reload" your 
 game, you re synch up with your past memory. Fans of POP will identify this with when the prince 
 would die, he would say "oh wait, thats not how it happened" 
  
  The gameplay is wonderful. The controls are definitely difficult at first, i often found myself 
 accidentally pushing over civilians or jumping of walls to my death. However, you soon pick them 
 up and will be scaling Cathedrals and performing leaps of faith in no time. Assassin's is definitely 
 worth the dough, you'll be hooked from your first kill. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OfficerJurala
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm doubting that you want to read a novel on this game since Gamespot takes care of that... not 
 to mention that many others have already reviewed this game. The bottom line is that this game 
 is all they are saying its cracked up to the be. The animations and voice acting is awesome. The 
 game is very entertaining and you will definitley find yourself taking time just to admire the 
 beauty that this work of art has to offer. The games SCI-FI element fits in perfectly with the 
 story so you won't find yourself going, what??? The games pacing is good giving you a tutorial 
 for each portion and helping the player grow used to the controls and gameplay. Most true games 
 know what types of games they enjoy playing... so if you liked Prince of Persia you will definitley 
 like this... only more.... Go BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levrikon365
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I have alot of favored stealthy type games I have played in the past but this is by one the most 
 best stealth type games I have ever played. I highly reccommend this game to everyone out there 
 put Halo 3 away for a couple of weeks and get ready to jump into alot of action. I recently have 
 baught call of duty 4 I only played it twice but now that I own this game I called in sick to work 
 just so I could play this game. You know when you do that you know that your 60 dollar worth video 
 game was so worth the buy. A couple of my friends actually went out and spent over $400 dollars 
 to get the game because they had to get a 360 in order to play the game. I reccomend this game 
 to all PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSUJD524
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  When you think back on the 360 long after the next generation after has come out, many console 
 defining games will come to mind, Halo 3, Call of Duty 2, Bioshock, Mass Effect, Too Human, The 
 Orange Box, and Assasins Creed. People who shop at EB Games and Gamestop, you won't be seeing this 
 game in the used section for months to come. It delivers on every aspect that was promised at E3. 
 Don't believe the IGN review, they have their heads too stuck up Marios butt they can't see a masterpiece 
 when they see it. And yes I used the word masterpiece! I have only used that one other time, and 
 that was for God of War 2. Get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilsTan_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I've played through the first 2 sections (got the first 2 achievements) and I really love this 
 game so far. I love the fluid motions of Altair and have not really noticed the glitchy, frame 
 rate issues that I've read about on the IGN review. The controls are very responsive and after 
 the tutorial at the beginning I feel I have a pretty good grasp of them. I love running and jumping 
 off building to scare the people below. The voice acting is also excellent. I can't say enough 
 good things about it. One of the best games I've played so far! Absolutely worth the $. Don't let 
 the IGN review keep you from getting this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CWSoccer07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best visuals for a game yet. Not just the detail that went into each 
 NPC, but the environment. These cities are enormous, and feel alive. The controls have a bit of 
 a learning curve, but once mastered, they become second-nature. Altair's motions are very fluent 
 in every aspect when climbing, riding a horse, and fighting. 
  The story line is intriguing (though I have not finished the game) . Assassin's Creed is just the 
 first of a trilogy so I expect some of the storyline to carry over into the next game (as I have 
 seen complaints about an unfulfilled ending) .
  For me, this game shows only the tip of the iceberg of what is to come out of the next gen game 
 systems. A huge, completely interactive environment with hoards of NPCs and a smooth gameplay is 
 just the start of what is to come onto the next gen systems.
  
  Overall, Ubisoft has managed to deliver on all its promises for the game. For those who have been 
 anticipating this game, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2av3n
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  I really like the repetitiveness of missions, it really makes you feel like something new is always 
 happening. And combat... whoa! ONE GUY AT A TIME ATTACKING YOU! THAT'S LIKE... ALMOST AS GOOD AS 
 2 GUYS ATTACKING YOU AT ONE TIME. Incredible!
  
  So yeah, well, Assassin's Creed does have a really cool engine and all, and it does look very nice, 
 and it does have a massive world which you can explore! But who cares? When you've climbed one 
 building you've climbed them all. The only incentive for doing anything outside of what's necessary 
 for the story is the achievements. Artistically and Graphically speaking, I think the game looks 
 phenomenal. But really, it's all flash and no substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistaman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most beautifully created games ever to have been developed for the next-gen 
 console (though its really slim-pickings :) ) !
  Respectable effort for the first title in probably a sequel-laden franchise. The game immerses 
 you into the environment and culture of the 11th century - the third crusades.
  Its amazing that you can almost feel the crud of the middle ages in this game. How the buildings, 
 the carpets, the wood the people, all of it seems so real. 
  The gameplay mechanics have been honed to a point that it is almost humanly intuitive on what needs 
 to be done, either moving around the map.. and even fighting and eavesdropping.
  A lot has to be said about the cities that live within Assassin's creed, you start of in Damascus 
 where its predominantly islamic architecture. The details put into making sure the environment 
 is believable is amazing.
  The future of next-gen games is here within Assassins Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyb12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. The problem with some people is I think they expected WAY to much from this 
 game. Before you go and buy it lower your expectations slightly and I think you'll really enjoy 
 it. I'm personally looking forward to the a second one (hopefully) and I think if they made a sequel 
 it could be dusted up slightly from the first one. This game has great gameplay. Everything looks 
 AMAZING. There are some very mild glitches that shouldn't ruin the game for you... face it every 
 game has glitches of some kind. I would recomend this game to anyone who enjoys a perfectly good 
 piece of art! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanodiablolo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Fantastic visuals, gameplay and story make this game an absolute must for any gamer. The gripping 
 story ties the player in from the outset and is thrilling throughout. If the story wasnt enough 
 the joy felt by the presentation of the musical score and the visuals provides an expierience like 
 no other and has to be seen to be believed. 
  
  The animations of both NPC's aswell as Altair as truly exellent and help to further the overall 
 expierience even more. I you are looking for the best game of the year, this is it for me. Without 
 question better than Halo 3 in my opinion, simply blows away any competiob just as we expected 
 it to. 
  
  Assassin's Creed does not dissapoint its as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omidsojoody
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  Taking a life is not a task to be accepted lightly. While some games trivialize the act, none infuse 
 it with haunting gravity more elegantly than Assassin's Creed. As you guide Altar through his 
 missions, the game transforms you into an angel of death; the puppeteering control scheme and cinematic 
 camera makes every kill feel significant, and every leap of faith a triumph. The gameplay can instantly 
 transform from careful, measured movement to a heart-pounding escape with a dozen city guards on 
 your trail. The chase is enhanced by the seamless integration of free-running, which has you traversing 
 towering spires and residential districts in exhilarating ways you have to see to believe. With 
 its excellent mechanics and surprising story, the only area where Assassin's Creed leaves itself 
 vulnerable is in the variety of environments and investigation missions. The crowds and architecture 
 provide endless opportunities for experimentation, however, so there are always ways to stay entertained. 
 Death is an inevitable part of life, so make sure you cross Assassin's Creed off of your to-do 
 list before your time comes. Sooner would be better than later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyszek
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Hell YeaH!!! Ubisoft once again shown us who's the best!! ;] Once You play it there will be no 
 match for that game..
  
  Strongly addictive and you are going to bed and you close your eyes - and only thing you see is 
 that you play still ;] I am trully amazed and i think it is undisputted the besdt game of the year 
 and no questions about that!! I will walk it through at least three times over and over again. 
 Be sure that if you try that you wouldn't stop playing.
  
  
  
  Strongly addictive and you are going to bed and you close your eyes - and only thing you see is 
 that you play still ;] I am trully amazed and i think it is undisputted the besdt game of the year 
 and no questions about that!! I will walk it through at least three times over and over again. 
 Be sure that if you try that you wouldn't stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red-orc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  First thing you that will lift you up is the unique story: It's so extraordinary for a game that 
 you can be almost sure that Assassin's Creed has to be movie material. 
  
  Second it's the atmosphere: sheer amazing!
  
  And then there is this f**ing cool gameplay. 
 You'll get sucked into this environment, you'll merge with this black and white character who's 
 obsessed by what he's doing: That's getting on track of a real big a.-h. and kill this guy. And 
 you can do it the way you feel like. Just try everything out, choose your weapon, run into him 
 like a berserker or sneak like a panther. 
  
  Last but not least it's this amazing feeling to climp buildings, get dizzy on top of a tower - 
 it feel so real to jump over rooftops unlike in any other game before, really enjoyabe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outer_Raven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game 
 this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably 
 the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this 
 christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably 
 the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this 
 christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably 
 the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this 
 christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably 
 the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this 
 christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably the best game this christmas. Arguably 
 the best game this christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  when i first got the game i thought ok it's going to be like any other action adventure but i was 
 so wrong.
  
  the game is just the best game ever made. everything is perfect, the graphics the story the gameplay 
 the control system everything.
  a must get title fo every one if like Prince Of Persia Assassin's Creed is your new favourite game.
 
  everything is working fine, the game has no bugs and the system works great.
  
  I was waiting for that game for a long long time and it was worth the wait.
  well i hope that 
 you will buy this game it's worth it.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------
  great game with great next-gen graphics
 
  worth playing
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencdiamonds
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece. Exactly what I have been looking for in a game.
  it is not guns and you are not the main hero that the world depends on for no save *cough* H3 the 
 fact that you can almost do anything with walls ppl almost real life with about 10,000 NPCs I belive 
 walk around who wouldn't have fun w/ this. Aswell as all my freinds quote "You Get to Shank People".
 
  In all Truth get for 360 only. I cannot wait to see the Trilogy because even though the story 
 is confusing at times it could be quite interesting because you are a human who is carrying the 
 memorys of a person who was an assassin BUT this is ubisoft makers of Prince Of Persia so I can 
 see where they are coming from with the storline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2LiveKrew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is great you will get bored of it quick. At first you will be absolutely amazed 
 but then you will realize how repetitive everything gets. Don't need to get into too much detail 
 because you probably already have heard of its amazing stealth, gameplay, and graphics but you 
 will run into a lot of really stupid AI and the game is full of glitches. It's a really great game 
 you should defiantly rent and try out but don't buy it, you'll be playing it for a week tops and 
 then it's gonna collect dust. Don't buy it, you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkingoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  First off the reviewer below 1furious1 did not even play the game yet, I get games early due to 
 my being in the game industry, and this is one game not available till tomorrow... Therefore, ignore 
 any comments made by this poster, wait for tomorrow, buy the game. Oh, also ignore 1up and ign's 
 reviews, since they seem to think they own the review industry, they feel the need to only give 
 credit to first person shooters. Must buy title from all that Ive heard and seen. Graphics, controlls, 
 gameplay, story, design, this game has it all. So if your looking to get a game that NOT a first 
 person shooter this holiday season, look no further than Asssassin's Creed. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is just what I was looking for, a mix of Prince of Persia & Hitman. The game looks incredible 
 and the animations are top notch. The story may be quite confusing so pay attention. Other than 
 a few graphical glitches this game is flawless, it is a must get for any 360 or PS3 owner. 
  
  Climbing builds and leaping from beam to beam and losing your enemies is fun. The AI might 
 be dumb, but everything else out shadows this. The game is not sandbox like most of you think, 
 they give you a mission and you have to complete it in any way you seem fit, which is similar to 
 that. 
  
  Overall this game is great, again a must buy for any 360 owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobismykitty
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many 
 ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary 
 in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis 
 game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways 
 definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary 
 in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis 
 game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways 
 definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary 
 in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis 
 game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways 
 definatley a buythis game is revolutionary in so many ways definatley a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Furious1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok.... First of all I have to say that I've classified this game as a "Total Letdown" because I 
 was expecting a lot of great things from this game but it turned out to be quite the opposite...
 
  
  I'll start off by saying what's good in the game:
  -Visually the game looks fantastic, especially the main character, whose moves are slick and flawless. 
 NPCs look pretty good, but nothing too special by modern standards. The cities are very big, but 
 they need a bit more variety, just a little bit.
  -Freerunning is made fun and it's nice to climb up and down the buildings. It's something we've 
 not seen much of in games and it is sure fun.
  -Combat system is pretty well implemented.
  -AI is not as bad as everyone says it is.
  
  Ok, not let's talk about what did not really work:
 
  
  -The story. The "twist" is not really anything special. I was not much surprised or overwhelmed 
 by it. If you've seen sci-fi movies before this is not going to impress you much. The plot, so 
 far, does not seem to be epic. Even though it seems like you are doing the right thing by killing 
 these bad characters the "bad guys" themselves don't really stand out. I'm sure after playing through 
 the game once you will not remember any of them (or most of them) . I was hoping that this game will 
 be something like MGS series, but, as I said, the "bad guys" are not bad enough. They are not very 
 unique and not much attention is given to them. 
  -Voice acting of the protagonist is nothing to write home about. I'm sure they could have found 
 a better actor because almost every character in the "supporting crew" does a lot better job.
 
  -The game is too easy! There is no way to adjust the difficulty unfortunately. Maybe you can unlock 
 it after playing through the whole game?
  
  In conclusion I would like to say that this is an OK game (which is unacceptable for me, because 
 I was waiting for this game since it has been announced and actually decided not upgrade my PC 
 and go with the next gen consoles instead just because of Assassin's Creed) . It will keep you busy 
 for a long time, but you are not necessarily going to have fun all the time. If you are on a tight 
 budget and think whether to buy or rent this game I would recommend renting it because there are 
 so many other good games coming out.
  
  You may think I'm biased, but I'm actually not. I was reading the forums in the morning and did 
 not believe the people who were bashing the game and went ahead and bought it anyway. I cannot 
 say that I regret it but I just wish the developers have played this game themselves before actually 
 putting it into production because it's not as much fun as it should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorgedodo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Many people had sayed this game isnt that good ... let me tell you it is ...
  where do i start.. story: i am only like 8 hours into the game but the story has not be that great 
 , it is not bad ... but it is not what everyone thought it will be .. grafix: one of the best youll 
 se on this generation , the citys look very, very good and the kingdom also but somethimes things 
 just pop-up but it is still beutiful.. gameplay: this i think is what makes the game so great , 
 the fact that you can climb every thing you see is great , and the best part about it is that it 
 looks very natural and youll never say like wtf!!! never because altair moves in such a way it 
 looks like someone could really do that ,, i have hear it starts to get repetitive but , i really 
 dont get bored by doing the same stuff over and over .. and .. exploring the kingdom make you rest 
 from those repetitive mission wich are great... lasting appeal: if you really like it .. it can 
 last you for evr.. but if not i think it is about 40 hours plus if you want to explore and you 
 nevver get tired of climbing i think it will last you more...
  
  but belive me IF YOU LIKE THE SCREENS , GAMEPLAY , ETC.. BUY THIS GAME IT IS ONE OF THE BEST I 
 HAVE PLAYED AND IS VERY UNIKE YOU WILL NOT GET AND EXPERINCE LIKE THIS.. IN OTHER GAMEE BUY I T!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr618
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this one short.
  
  I'll start with the story, the beginning was a little annoying as it reminded me of the Metroid 
 series in that you lose your weapons after the first mission. But the rest of the story was great 
 and had a good ending (even though it was a little confusing)
  
  Graphics were spectacular, rivaled only by Crysis (which has the best graphics available) . There 
 were some very minor glitches, but the sheer beauty of everything else made you totally forget 
 them.
  
  Gameplay was really fun, even though it gets a little repetitive. It still takes a LOT of killing 
 templars in the coolest way possible to get bored of it. You could climb anything that stuck out 
 2 inches and everything was interactive.
  
  The sounds were actually quite impressive too. You are usually to busy staring at the beauty of 
 a massive city to notice the clear sounds coming from it that make you think you are really there.
 
  
  Overall I'd say buy it, it is great in so many ways that the minor slips ups like technical glitches 
 and repetitive combat are easily ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDaddy878
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this game forever and it lives up to my hype. Halo 3 got a bit boring 
 even though I gave it a 10, but that is because that was nothing BRAND NEW. Assassins Creed is 
 an innovative game that succeeds in every way possible and I am sure to continue playing it for 
 a long time now. 
  
  First, let me state one thing. I am one of those people that loves to free roam in worlds and enjoy 
 what the game has to offer. That is one of the main reasons I love Assassins Creed. Not only can 
 you free roam, but you can free run, and the animations look and flow so smoothly. I love it. 
 
  
  The combat is also really fun, but I will be playing this game over and over again not because 
 of the combat, but because of the free running, templer assassinations, blending in with crowds, 
 and flags. Usually, a game has something like flags in AC that you can collect, but AC makes it 
 fun to collect them because it is fun to climb. You can climb anything, and it is awesome. 
  
  The graphics and art design in this game are some of the best I have ever seen. It is absolutly 
 astonishing to climb a tall building and check out the huge city with birds eye view. That brings 
 me to another point in the game. The cities are HUGE! They are bigger than any other game I have 
 seen out there, (including oblivion) There is also a kingdom to travel with your horse. I love 
 it. 
  
  However, Assassins Creeds side missions are not like Oblivion. They tend to get a bit repetitive, 
 but that doesn't bother me. However, if repetition bothers you, this is just a small warning. I, 
 however, think that the repetition of side quests is not major and you ca still have a ton of fun.
 
  
  The main assassinations are also a ton of fun to do IF YOU TAKE YOUR TIME AND PLAN IT OUT. It can 
 be fun to rush in and kill, but it is so much more fun if you try to be a true assassins and come 
 up with your own way to kill the guy. Sure, the assassination turns out to be the same thing, but 
 at least you feel like an assassin and it is a good feeling. 
  
  This is worth the 60.00, hell even 100.00 for me, so I suggest you buy it. You will come back to 
 it, sooner or later, or much later depending on who you are. Halo 3 deserved a 10 from me at the 
 time, but now the fun is wearing away already. I doubt this game will do the same. Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pXpfreak27
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  It has alot of story that will get you right into the action and is a hard game to understand ..... it 
 also has two characters you can play as ....... and has unserpassed controls they may be hard but 
 once you get used to it its awsome .. the game offered so much and gave everthing it offered except 
 the fact that some of the fighting is very repetitive ... but is necasary to increase your skills 
 at the controls ...... you must buy this game if you everwondered how to be an assassin or anything 
 invloving a person and a knife and skills you must buy this game !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogert
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big big fan of open world environments with the spinter cell like sneakyness, 
 except this game adds a twist, where you can hide... in public! it's a very well put together game, 
 and has outstandingvisuals. the gameplay is orgasmic and the voice acting is great! Perhaps one 
 of the greatest things that has happened to me so far is just being able to run away from 20 some 
 gaurds without a lower frame rate by using the buildings which is great because all other games 
 just have buildings as quite simply, pretty looking blocks. this is deffinatly one my favourite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_kell411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Truly it's hyped up quite a bit, but in the end it comes out to be a very well made game with an 
 intriguing storyline and an engaging world. A perfect game? No, there could be improvements, but 
 otherwise the game is the next best thing you can get to perfect. Not exactly a 10/10, but definitely 
 above a 9.
  
  The storyline takes place during the third crusade. You are Altair, a master assassin and a rogue 
 and enemy of both the Saracens and the Crusaders. Armed with powerful weapons and skills, you traverse 
 a land that is enormous and incredibly realistic. It seems as if every tiny village has a purpose, 
 that every bush and tree were not laid out randomly, but rather set at precisely the right angle 
 and set to cast precisely the right shadow. The world, itself, is amazing. It offers a nearly endless 
 supply of exploration. I was shocked by the sheer size of it all, even after games like Oblivion.
 
  
  The lack of any sort of multi-player or co-op is a huge disadvantage though. Modern games are set 
 to have very strong online capabilities, so that it adds a social aspect to the game. But sitting 
 at home and just playing the storyline alone? That's a huge fault in my mind, though it's not exactly 
 a flaw. The campaign itself makes up for this lacking, due to its immersing and intriguing plot. 
 You'll find yourself looking back on the story afterwards... and saying to yourself : "Wow, now 
 that was one hell of a game." If game even be the word you use. "Epic..." might be the only word 
 to describe it.
  
  Another huge bonus for the game is its combat system. The in-depth attacks/maneuvers that you can 
 pull when you're surrounded by Templar Knights of Saracen Cavaliers is astounding. These moves 
 aren't only impressive... they're REALISTIC. These would be actions that a true assassin might perform 
 during the heat of combat. Plus, your very low health makes you vulnerable. A hit to the head with 
 a sword will take you down... but with a sword in your hand, your skills go unmatched. What's more, 
 your enemies seem smart in combat. They move and dodged, as well as strike out at you and parry 
 your attacks. They're less skilled, sure, but they're still powerful adversaries that know how 
 to wield a weapon. It kind of brings you back to reality: "These are the finest swordsmen in all 
 of Europe, and they're actually matching my combat moves!" Of course, as Altair, you're pretty 
 much unmatched by anyone... but the realism of it all is impressive.
  
  And that's what made me give it a score of 9.5. This is history you are in, not some futuristic 
 FPS. You don't have shields, grenades, thick armor, or an enormous stash of health... you're just 
 a man. You're a man with ambition and a man with skill. It is your skill that will overcome your 
 enemies, not your firepower or armor level. This doesn't really seem like a game about the crusades, 
 this seems like the CRUSADES are about the GAME. You feel as if you're living history, not as if 
 you're sitting on the couch moving an analog stick around to move your character.
  
  Truly amazing, Ubisoft. I look forward to any future titles that you might have for the Assassin's 
 Creed series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harveyz01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I knew this game was going to rule, but it went beyond ruling. The first time you come over the 
 hill and see demascus on horseback, i lost my breath, just so detailed and vast. The one thing 
 i was iffy about was the fighting system but it works perfectly. The one problem is the confusing 
 story, but at least there will be 2 more games. A buy for 360!!! and here is a little joke. It 
 was reported that the A. I in the PS3 game will be and I quote "dumbed down". So not are only PS3 
 owners dumb, the characters are too!! Haha
  360 and Wii FTW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvtrichert
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I am thrilled about this game i have been waiting a year for its release and now it's finally here. 
 And it blew my mind away when i played it. one hit for me was the cities. walking through the cities 
 it was like walking through a real city so many people and interactions that they do with each 
 other was really cool. The combat system was amazing i loved all the neat counterattacks and weapons 
 they could be used in fights. Out of all though i liked the freedom of movement the most being 
 able to move through all the large cities everywhere stalking your prey and planning your attack 
 and escape made you fell like a true assassin. definitely 10/10
  The story............ the story this was a big one the story was mind bogeling The writers must 
 of had alot of fun creating this story becouse it an amazing story its like watching a movie cept 
 your the main character in the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlicj842
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is definately one of those games that is being overhyped and reviewed on some sites.
 
  
  Its a good game yes, but 5/5 or 10/10? Absolutely not.
  
  +Great Graphics
  +Combat is fun and takes some skill to master
  +- Storyline is average, nothing special but not 
 bad
  -Sound is just horrible, you can only listen to NPC guards yelling at citizens about stealing or 
 saving someone and having them say they wish their sons were as brave as you so many times. Having 
 played through the game and saving all the citizens you will hear the same 3-4 lines at least a 
 dozen times each.
  
  The assassination missions are where the fun is, but are only a small portion. The rest is filled 
 with climbing dozens upon dozens of towers for POI's then sitting on a bench and eavesdropping 
 or punching someone a few times to get information. After you realize that the entire game is the 
 same 4 or 5 investigation techniques over and over again, which you need to repeat 9 times it gets 
 repetative.
  
  Disappointed me, i was hoping for the next big Hitman series. Instead i got Prince of Persia with 
 a Crackdown do all these mini missions to kill the main guy. Still a good game though, although 
 maybe not worthy of purchase if you have gamefly as there is almost zero replayability since the 
 toughest decision you have to make later in the game is which guy to kill first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrestlemaniaw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing everything is cool. absolutely a new game and the sound is incredible and the 
 story is exciting! and the game isn't too long and isn't too short but not boring! that's all what 
 I can say. and to the people who think the A. I is stupid: When you get the game go to options and 
 go to difficulty and choose HARD !!!!
  
  Now look how the guards fight and they see everything !!!!
  You get attacked more often and trust 
 me it's not easy to block all attacks , now they don't wait they attack one by one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehdi_lord_70
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  that's a new experience. I think one of the best game in this year. a best game from M. ubisoft. the 
 graghic is perfect and the gameplay is nice. it's like to be a bird that can see all people doing 
 their jobs and suddenly want to kill one of them like hawk. the story was good but it seems to have 
 a terrible end that shock you. I give this game 10 because of its atomospher and its new good idea 
 that everyone enjoy it. the game have some problems too but we can forget them and enjoy the game.
 
  mabe it can be more better than now but this one is a good game too. the levels are very good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylnuge
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is great, don't get me wrong. The game is fun, entertaining, and sucks you right 
 in -- for about the first hour. Then the game hits the disappointment phase, where you realize there 
 is nothing new. The "twist" which occurs at the start of the game is interesting, and I won't spoil 
 it for those who have not yet heard of it, but it was leaked all over the internet long ago and 
 occurs too soon to be much more then just part of the storyline.
  
  Climbing buildings, killing people, escaping-thats what we have seen in almost every gameplay video 
 to date, and sure enough, that is pretty much the game. Sure, you can do it in your own way and 
 order. However, killing everyone is not much of an option, so scaling walls and sneaking around 
 is going to be the center of your gameplay no matter what.
  
  What's more, your character has certain boundaries, and killing too many innocent people, among 
 other things, is not possible. Instead of opening the game's morality choices, they pretty much 
 lock you into Altair's moral stance. This is fun, for sure, but makes replay value lacking.
  
  In fact, replay is this games weakest point. Although I am not finished yet, I don't see any 
 reason to replay the game, there is no multilayer, and I doubt I will ever touch the game again 
 once I finish it. True, 360 players can shoot for achievements, but if you don't get them, you 
 are likely to play more fun games instead for gamerscore.
  
  In summary, this is a fun game, but limited. It is really a disappointment from what I had hoped 
 to see. If you can only buy one or two games this year, this game should not be on your list. However, 
 if you can afford a bunch of games, this is a fun game and fine to play. For those trying to save 
 money, rent or borrow it. Once you are done, you won't need to go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Ogre
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was different from the others as soon as i starte dplaying i noticed the vast world and 
 gorgeous graphics just made me open my mouth and sit there drooling. After immersing from my drooling 
 ashes i just started a fight what I thought would be a simple combat systems was auctually extremely 
 complex and entertaining i just couldnt put this game down. All my dreams and more became reality 
 when i played this game I just had to smile playing this for its perfection. For me this was the 
 all time greatest game anyone could think of and if this is really going to be a triology im going 
 to play them all through 100 TIMES. This is definatly a game that when you play you wont be able 
 to put down, so believe me when i say this after you start playing this game the control will be 
 locked to your hands and your eyes glued to the tv/computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed, I was expecting to rip off some combos on some soldiers but I guess I didn't do 
 my research. Instead Assassins Creed uses an interesting counter system, similiar to Heavenly Sword 
 but more complex, people may get a little impatient waiting around for the soldiers to attack you 
 but I thought it was fine, just not what I expected. 
  
  One thing I did expect was a main goal of the game which was just killing the target. Investigating, 
 planning it out, the kill, the chase, and then running away. I really didn't find it that repetitive 
 since I tried to do things differently every time I assassinated someone. The Graphics, you know 
 you've seen them there pretty freakin awesome. The sound is also wonderful, the voice overs are 
 great and everything from the Medieval themed music to the Futur ------ I mean nevermind you will 
 find that litle twist out later. Anyways Assassins Creed is a great game, There are also 60 other 
 side missions and collectables to keep you going for quite a long time, and for you gamerscore 
 freaks out there theres tons of collectables too. So for the people who can deal with the combat 
 system this game will be outstanding, for those who cant, this game is still a must have for the 
 360/PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  There can be no question that Assassin's Creed is one of the most hyped games of the year. Those 
 gorgeous trailers and that unique storyline and that clever approach to combat... well, all of it 
 just seemed to be a very focused combination, and so many assumed that a developer like Ubisoft 
 would absolutely nail it once the final product finally landed.
  
  Early reviews are decidedly mixed as to whether Ubisoft nailed it or merely drove the nail into 
 the coffin of the series before it had life. Some are chiding the combat system, others dislike 
 the repetitious nature of the gameplay, and others aren't enamored with the narrative. Fair criticisms, 
 all of 'em, but there's something to be said for innovation and freshness in the gaming world, 
 too. And Assassin's Creed generally overcomes its flaws by being quite enjoyable and quite original.
 
  
  Altair is a more charismatic character than Jack Carver of Ubisoft's Far Cry series, and probably 
 not as overtly cool as Sam Fisher of Splinter Cell fame. He's not thoroughly memorable but there's 
 room for some development in that regard. And let's be real honest with ourselves: in this age, 
 most just aren't terribly concerned with how a character resonates, so long as he can kick a little 
 ass and maybe snap off a few one-liners. 
  
  The assassination missions, so far, appear to be very well orchestrated. The linear narrative of 
 Assassin's Creed is discouraging to a point, but there's also a great deal of fluidity to it as 
 a result. The expanse of the world, the vertical nature of the game (it's kind of a living, breathing 
 platformer of sorts) and the keen use of ancillary characters is an achievement. This, folks, is 
 a pretty big game, and not just in its ambition or scope.
  
  It's a visual treat for the most part, though I hazard to guess that on a standard-definition TV 
 with composite cables, you won't see much here to get excited about. The audio presentation is 
 competent, though underwhelming in spots. The gameplay mechanics are solid, although as a general 
 rule, you shouldn't expect the fighting component of this game to be considerably challenging. 
 You won't get swarmed by foes, but you will have to deal with the same kinds of swipes and parries 
 often.
  
  So is Assassin's Creed a legend, or a letdown? I guess that's where your own expectations come 
 into play. I anticipated a solid action title with engaging characters and depth of narrative, 
 and I think I'm pretty satisfied. I also see a potentially flourishing franchise. By no means is 
 this effort perfect, but for its excellent production values and atypical approach, I say without 
 reservation that it stands solidly among the best XBox 360 titles of 2007.
  
  ***EDIT: Originally, I inadvertently moved the score slider to 8.5, having intended to show a 9.0. 
 The game rates a flat 9.0 in my book in all categories.*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  If you have been following any of my other game reviews then you should already know that I haven't 
 gave a game a 10 out of 10 before.. some were really close to it but now.. well. this game has 
 a story. and it must be told to everyone..
  
  Ill start off with which I want to say.. this game is just unique it dosent take anything from 
 any other game and totally recreates the way games should be made. The free roam experience and 
 the ability to actually KILL anyone you want is just unbelievable I love history and that's why 
 I found this game so much fun.
  
  I was a total fan of the movie Kingdom of Heaven so when I heard that they would be coming out 
 with something that actually has to do with Jerusalem I was In shock and wondered how this game 
 would even look and play like so now ill really begin.
  
  
  Ill gets to the story first, if you have seen different movies about medieval times and about King 
 Arthur or anything like that and have an Xbox 360 you will probably love this game just because 
 it has to do with Jerusalem, the game takes place during the Third Crusade, in the year 1191. The 
 player assumes the role of Altair, ("The Flying One") and your basic objective is to kill all nine 
 historical characters who are propagating the Crusades sounds cool doesn't it?
  
  When the game begins, Christian King, Richard the Lionheart, has just recaptured the port city 
 of Acre from occupying Muslims. With a base of operations established, the Crusaders prepare to 
 march south. Their true target is Jerusalem  which they intend to recapture for Christianity. 
 However, Saladin, leader of the Islamic army, currently rules the city. Stinging from his army's 
 defeat at Acre, he will not allow Richard to humiliate him again. The Muslim forces are massing 
 in the ruins of Arsuf, intending to ambush the Crusaders and prevent them from reaching Jerusalem 
 but I wont give any more details sorry if I spoiled anything ^^"
  
  There is also some sort of sci-fi story that goes along with the plot as well but I wont give out 
 any spoilers but something does happen with the future as well, so now a lot of older people will 
 like it so they can find out about the historical cause which is actually great since games now 
 are getting the sense that people like great stories back like 1000 years ago.
  
  Now when it comes to the game playthere were some worries about it but I am here to tell you. dont 
 listen to them the game play is actually really smooth and fits in with our flying bird character, 
 ill get to the controls after but you basically have four types of weapon's Throwing knives, A 
 Short Sword, A hidden Blade and although I haven't seen the crossbow yet im pretty sure it's a 
 weapon since its always on my back lol
  You will also notice that it has similar game play to The Prince of Persia, well you are a master 
 assassin and also PoP was made by Ubisoft as well so it does take the element of climbing up walls 
 and running around and everything. This game also has the free roam feature which is incredible!!! 
 You just look so cool walking around the streets of Jerusalem and then all of a sudden a beggar 
 comes up to you and asks for some money. Be Nice? NAH I freaking stabbed her and ran away,
  
  There is a alarm system so if you kill someone you have to hide for a certain amount of time 
 until it goes blue then you have to conceal yourself in the streets and blend in until your alright.. or 
 you can just stay out and continue to kill people and guards ^^.
  
  People will always and usually get in your way but you can actually just push them out of the way 
 or throw them down to the ground and continue going along or if one of them follows you. you can 
 always kill them. just a suggestion lol
  
  Now with the controls this was the biggest thing people were worried about, the controls are a 
 bit odd all the buttons are apart of Altair body B is right arm, X is left arm, Y is your head 
 and A are your feat. Long time gamers won't have much trouble and should be able to get a grasp 
 of it quite quickly but newcomers will probably have troubles at first but my friend was playing 
 it and he doesn't really play games and he DIED like 5 times until he started to jump around.. and 
 kill people.. then continue to kill people.
  
  So if you aren't a big gamer but you want this game just be careful you won't get the controls 
 at the start but if you continue to play you will be able to play better and continue to be better.
 
  
  Now the graphics are outstanding to me!! All the characters look really real and a lot of them 
 have different emotes which is also a nice feature. When you get on top of the roof of a building 
 and look around you might actually stay there for a while just to look at the scenery.
  
  Overall This game is an outstanding in Visual, Game play, and story, the controls are a bit shaky 
 but you will get over them and enjoy yourself as you run around the streets of Jerusalem and continue 
 to assassinate 9 historical figures of the time.. or you can assassinate anyone. REMEMBER JUST 
 A SUGGESTION lol have fun guys!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asskick_QTip
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  rhis game is THE game it's my bible i love it and can't let it go... my friend already has 850 
 gamerscore and i think thats sick. People you should enjoy this game to the fullest!!! explore 
 the coties and enjoy. I love this game and will play it a lot... I called in sick at school today 
 to get and play this game. 
  
  IT FRIGGIN ROCKS 
  
  This is the game that deserves a NR. 1 position. Not Halo3. I know not everybody likes it but i 
 respect that (theyre nuts but okey... those people have to excist to..) . 
  
  My advise: BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY
  
  You don't ROCK when u don't buy this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Today I went to Gamestop and got Assassins Creed. I didn't know much about this other than it's 
 a stealth game that takes place way back when. I was about to get Kane and Lynch when an employee 
 reccomendd Assassins Creed. I said that I would just wait for it but he simply said its like Hitman 
 and with no hesitation I bought it. I love the hitman series because well you a hitman. So the 
 first thing I did when I got home was put in the disc.
  Well so far into the game I am VERY happy that I bought it. The levels are huge, graphics are fantastic, 
 story is excellent, gameplay is just like hitman with cool new features. Being able to climb a 
 building and have guards chasing after you and civilians throwing fruit at you is pretty cool to 
 look at and is very exhilirating running down a street knocking people to avoid being arrested. 
 The controls are not like any game but is still fun. The fighting mechanics are like a litle minigame 
 which can get kind of boring but still fun the first couple of tries. The only major problem in 
 this game is its repetitive. Almost every mission is sneak, kill, sneak, escape. But what what 
 makes it a very minor problem is how much replay value is in the game. Want to be a psycho? Go 
 right up to the target and slit his throat or kill anybody that's in the way or go SAS where you 
 look over the map following the target above as the body count slowly and quietly rises then jump 
 down and kill him when a guards not looking and climb back up the buliding and esvape just as they 
 find whats-his-names body. 
  Any fan that has been waiting for this game should get it for a awesome new approach at stealth 
 games that stab Sam Fisher in the back. And you better hurry up because when I went to Gamestop 
 and got it they already sold about 5 copies and the store was only open for 30 minutes SO GO GET 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbas123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  I must say, when i was first looking at the game, i thought it was going to be a prince of persia 
 knock off, but wow was i wrong.
  
  This game was worth the wait and would still be worth the wait for another year.
  
  I would 
 actually give this game a 9.8/10 in all honesty due to the fact when you start off the game, it 
 drags way too long in the tutorial and the first few missions are really boring, most of the time 
 you just run and in combat its not all that fun. However, in the later missions, it becomes challenging 
 and all the running, combat, stealth, and everything you can think of is well blended. Your skills 
 will be put to the test whether you are a novice or a pro.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed in my opinion lives to the hype, its a new revolutionary way of playing 
 a video game, the in game cinematics are incredible, especially since you are allowed to freely 
 move in the cinematics, and the gameplay in general is so well put together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konartist67
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  This Game is exactly what I expected... GREAT!!! Get it if you don't have it. the fact that you 
 can go anywhere and you're not limited to any set area is awesome. I've been waiting on this game 
 since last year and I'm glad they took the time to perfect it and make it a classic. I was a bit 
 worried when I found out the the different things they had planned for the game but I'm glad they 
 went all out. This game is going to be a classic in my opinion. I can't wait for them to make a 
 part two... lol!!! GO GET THIS GAMES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doro120
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Nice Huge World, Great Gameplay, Unbelievable Graphics, and Awesome Moves! Good Storyline and Addicting 
 Replay Value! 
  
  Lots of Side Objectives. Abit repetative sometimes doing the side missions and hiding spots. But 
 it's still fun to do. Running around the cities, jumping roof to roof and climbing buildings is 
 Very Fun! What I really like also is how he moves around while escaping or climbing. 
  
  Nicely Detailed Character. The Character is awesome! Lots of people would think he's like Spiderman, 
 but I think he's more like Batman. Watch his stance when on a ledge hehe. And plus, AC Character 
 seems to be creeping through the night. Storyline reminds me of Matrix. Plugging back into the 
 past and waking back into the Real World. 
  
  Riding the Horses traveling to other cities is also fun. You can also wield your sword while riding 
 on a horse. 
  
  The Fighting system I would say is also pretty repetative except that it's still fun. Fight 3 at 
 the same time. Pretty much block, strike, strike for a combo. Love the Instant Kills! 
  
  One more thing I'll mention that I thought was nice is while loading, you have control of your 
 character, not much you can do, but better then just a loading screen. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is a Must-Have for either Generation Systems! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
