-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baja: Edge of Control
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/bajaedgeofcontrol/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great course designs.
 Plenty of vehicle and event variety.
 Split-screen support for up to four players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The easy difficulty setting is a lie.
 Career mode lacks depth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 200 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: 2XL Games
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Sep 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This ambitious racing game delivers a rewarding off-road experience provided you make it past the 
 initially steep learning curve. 

  Baja: Edge of Control from 2XL Games is an ambitious off-road racer that, while not necessarily 
 better than games that have come before it, does enough things well and introduces enough new features 
 to make it a good addition to the genre. Loosely based on the annual Baja 1000 race that takes 
 place in Mexico, Edge of Control not only features rally courses that are much longer than those 
 in other games, but also courses that are so rugged and treacherous that even driving in a straight 
 line can be challenging. Many of the races are endurance tests for both you and your car, and the 
 damage and repair management system adds a unique strategic element to longer events. The quality 
 of the visuals varies according to which console you're playing on. The Xbox 360 version looks 
 good and runs smoothly, the PlayStation 3 game does not.  

           Hill climb events are even more challenging on the way down.      

  From the outset, 
 you can choose to take part in races, rallies, and hill-climb events in a few of Baja's nine barren 
 environments. These are great if you're anxious to sample trophy trucks and other top-end vehicles 
 early on, but Edge of Control's main course is its Career mode, which you'll have to spend a good 
 amount of time with if you want to unlock the remaining locales, as well as additional vehicles. 
 What's unfortunate about the bare-bones Career mode is that it forces you to start in the lowest 
 of the game's eight vehicle classes, which would be fine, except that Baja Bugs not only lack the 
 horsepower of larger classes, but also the suspension, the grip, the brakes, the cooling systems, 
 and everything else that you might expect from a vehicle purpose-built for racing through the desert. 
 The result is that the game's slower vehicles are often the most difficult to handle and to get 
 across the finish line without sustaining significant damage. Unfortunately, you have to slog through 
 these events before you're permitted (or can afford) to race in more powerful classes.  

  If you don't opt to turn it off, which you shouldn't, vehicle damage is almost inevitable in the 
 majority of Edge of Control's events. This is especially true of hill-climb events, which not only 
 challenge you to scale some spectacularly steep inclines but also to come back down again. The 
 cosmetic damage to vehicles tends to be over-the-top rather than realistic, so you can expect body 
 panels to fall off before they have a chance to get misshapen. Losing panels won't affect your 
 vehicle's performance, but if you're playing in Career mode and have managed to attract a sponsor, 
 it will only pay you for the logos that make it across the finish line.  

  Collisions with other cars or obstacles will cause parts to fall off of your vehicle, but this 
 damage is purely cosmetic. Interestingly, the kind of damage that will adversely affect your vehicle's 
 performance is generally a result of your driving style rather than of any kind of error or incident. 
 For example, when racing toward a huge ramp, it's conceivable that by preloading your suspension 
 and getting some major airtime, you might be able to leapfrog vehicles in front of you to gain 
 a place or two. Landing a jump like that is unlikely to do your suspension any good, though, and 
 even if you don't end up with a wobbly wheel, there's a chance that you'll damage your oil pan. 
 Another avoidable though very common problem with the vehicles in Baja is overheating, which causes 
 a significant loss of power as your radiator packs up and starts throwing a trail of smoke in your 
 wake. If you ease off the gas when the onscreen temperature gauge moves toward the red, you can 
 prevent or at least postpone this problem, though in a race situation deliberately slowing down 
 often feels counterintuitive. Figuring out exactly how hard you can push your vehicle without breaking 
 it can be a lot of fun. It's frustrating to lose a race on the last corner because you pushed too 
 hard, but it's very rewarding to win a race when your opponents' vehicles are falling apart.  

 
           The vehicle you cross the finish line in isn't always recognizable as the same one you 
 had at the start.      

  One of the tips that appears during Edge of Control's occasionally lengthy load times would have 
 you believe that letting up on the gas is something that you'll want to do almost every time you 
 approach a corner. You're supposed to use the hand brake to turn and then, as you slide around 
 the corner, hold in the clutch to get your revs up so that when you release it upon exiting the 
 corner, you get a welcome boost of speed. It works, and it's really satisfying when you get it 
 right, but it's rarely necessary because most of the sharp corners are set into huge banks that 
 do a lot of the turning for you. This makes the nuanced controls entertaining for expert racers, 
 even though the courses are still accessible to novices.  

  When your vehicle is in need of some mechanic love, your options will vary according to the type 
 of event in which you're competing. Circuit races incorporate repair stops into their designs where, 
 by stopping for just a few seconds, you can get repairs carried out without losing too much time. 
 During rally events, repairs come courtesy of a helicopter that can be seen flying overhead at 
 all times. When you need to stop, you simply hit a button to radio the helicopter and, provided 
 its crew isn't already busy assisting someone else or eating ice cream (it happens) , it will land 
 somewhere ahead of you so that you can stop alongside it to get the same service you'd get at a 
 regular repair stop. Furthermore, if your vehicle gets a flat tire and is carrying a spare (most 
 start a race with one or two, but they fall off) , you can stop at any point during a race to change 
 it by hitting the repair button.     

   

  You don't have to spend any time or money repairing your vehicles between races in Edge of Control, 
 but there are plenty of opportunities for you to upgrade or replace them. Vehicle upgrades come 
 in a number of different flavors, including engine, power train, tires, brakes, suspension, weight/aero, 
 and cooling/plumbing. You don't need to know anything about the inner workings of modern automobiles 
 to figure out that throwing money at any part of your vehicle makes it better in the game. Complex 
 explanations of what every new part does are available, but the only thing you need to look at 
 is the performance gauge that fills up as you highlight more expensive options. On the other hand, 
 if you're someone who knows what "2.5-inch dual-rate springs on coil-over shock with remote reservoir" 
 means, you can go into the tuning menus to tinker with your vehicle's brake bias, gear ratios, 
 spring lengths, and other settings to get your ride just the way you like it.  

           Who cares how fast it is? Does it come in red?      

  Given the level of detail that's 
 available in the garage between races, it's baffling that you're afforded no information whatsoever 
 when buying a vehicle. These purpose-built off-road racers don't come cheap, but when you're considering 
 your next purchase in Edge of Control, the only information you're afforded about each vehicle 
 is its name, price, and the colors in which it's available. There certainly appear to be some performance 
 differences among the vehicles in any given class, but figuring them out comes down to you, plus 
 a whole lot of trial and error.  

  Regardless of your uneducated vehicle choice, there's no denying that the driving in Edge of Control 
 is satisfying. Vehicle handling makes intelligent compromises between realism and gameplay. Bumps 
 in the road that can potentially throw you off course are far more common than in other off-road 
 racers, for example, but anytime you fly off a big jump, you're afforded some control in midair 
 so that you can try for something that resembles a comfortable landing. Course designs are impressive 
 for the most part, though there's some inconsistency in how you are permitted to cut corners; at 
 times, you'll get away with skipping quite lengthy sections of track, but at other times, you'll 
 be penalized and reset to an earlier part of the course for something relatively minor.  

  AI drivers are also an inconsistent feature in Edge of Control. For the most part, they drive realistically, 
 aggressively (even on the easier of the two difficulty modes) , and believably (that is, they make 
 errors) -- they'll even cut corners when they can get away with it. They'll often appear to slow 
 down if they get  too  far ahead of you, though. At times, when racing alongside you, they'll also 
 seem blissfully unaware of your existence and stubbornly try to go for their preferred racing line -- even 
 if getting to it means having to go through you.  

           The AI drivers are fiercely competitive, even on the easy setting.      

  Like most 
 racing games, Edge of Control is more fun when played with human opposition. There's split-screen 
 support for up to four players and online support for a starting grid of 10. All of the aforementioned 
 race types that appear in the Career mode are supported, as well as a Free Ride mode that you can 
 use to explore the game's massive environments and Baja events, which are rallies on courses so 
 long that they can take from one to three hours to complete. Smartly, when playing online, you 
 have the option to hit a button and have the AI take over for you temporarily, so calls of nature, 
 ringing phones, or screaming kids don't necessarily have to mean the end of your race. The last 
 two might even offer some welcome relief from the constant droning of engines that you hear during 
 a race -- there's nothing wrong with them, it's just that there's very little else going on where 
 audio is concerned. The mellow Mexican music played on menu screens and the like isn't horrible, 
 but you'll hear so much of it on a relentless loop that it inevitably becomes grating after a while. 

  Baja: Edge of Control for the Xbox 360 isn't a great-looking game, and on the PlayStation 3, it 
 isn't even a remotely good-looking one. The environments lack detail on both consoles, but they 
 look fine while you're racing through them at speed. The problem is that while the vehicles, trackside 
 objects, and even the horizon look relatively crisp on the 360, those on the PS3 have edges so 
 jagged that you'll question whether or not the game is even running at the right resolution. The 
 frame rate on the PS3 also isn't nearly as smooth as it is on the 360, though it's rarely so bad 
 that's it's detrimental to gameplay.  

  If you can get over the steep learning curve, the Xbox 360 version of Baja: Edge of Control is 
 an off-road racer that's definitely worth a look. The PS3 version is less easy to recommend because 
 while the gameplay is intact, you should not have to tolerate, much less pay for, the combination 
 of an inconsistent frame rate and horrible visuals.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bfhenry1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  Could have been great. Realistic driving over the dirt. Tires not on the ground most of the time 
 makes for frustrating steering at first. Lots of tracks and lots of varied vehicles. This should 
 be better than it is. No matter how fast you go, at least one of the AI drivers will be faster. 
 When you make contact with other vehicles, you will lose every time. The AI driver just continues 
 on their path with you locked to their vehicle, eventually spinning you sideways or backwards as 
 they continue on with the race. And of course while locked up, every other driver is passing you. 
 The graphics are OK but look like they came from a past gen console. Crashing into objects such 
 as posts or bridges sometimes throws you out of the landscape temporarily. Game had real potential 
 but too frustrating to play long term. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Very few racing games can combine arcade and simulation gameplay successfully, but this game pulls 
 it off. It isn't perfect and made a few questionable design decisions, but it is still one of the 
 best racing games I have played in a long time. It starts off a bit generic, but as more time passed, 
 it really grew on me.
  
  Edge of Control is the perfect title for the game. The entire time, you are right on the brink 
 of loosing it, but actually flying off the track doesn't happen unless you make a mistake. The 
 other racers in the beginning of the career are bad enough to ease you into the gameplay but it 
 doesn't take long before they really start to challenge you, even on the easy difficulty setting. 
 There is rarely a time when you can just keep the gas down and you must keep a fine balance between 
 the regular brake and the handbrake. A technique that must be mastered in order to earn victory 
 is the use of the clutch. When at low speeds, pressing the clutch will rev the engine up. Releasing 
 it will give you a slight but effective speed boost. Naturally, this is very bad for the clutch 
 and it will wear down after continuous use. Even in the rare event that I got a good lead on the 
 rest of the pack, the game was still non-stop excitement because of how much you have to concentrate 
 on keeping the truck on the track.
  
  The AI is, hands down, the best I have ever seen in a racing game. I don't mean the best drivers, 
 but the most realistic. On their website, the developers make a point to say that they made sure 
 all the rules that apply to you in the game also apply to your AI opposition, and it clearly shows. 
 They make just as many mistakes as you will. They don't drive better and faster when you get in 
 first like many other games do, but they also are good enough that you won't win by massive margins 
 once you get good. Many other games will have that driver from time to time that cannot be beaten. 
 I almost thought this game did that in one particular race. I fought as hard as I could the entire 
 time to catch one particular racer. We were coming to the last turn and I was about to be annoyed 
 when suddenly, he took the turn a bit too wide, over corrected, and slid to a stop in the middle 
 of the track. Seeing the computer make colossal mistakes like this on occasion really makes the 
 game much more fun.
  
  There game strikes an awkward balance between simulation and arcade. The damage system is incredibly 
 detailed: tires wear down, vehicles overheat, the clutch burns out, shocks go bad, and tires go 
 flat. When these things happen, all that you need to do is pull into the repair area and wait a 
 few seconds while your vehicle is automatically fixed. The vehicle physics are incredibly realistic, 
 but if you leave the track, all you have to do is hit both top shoulder buttons to be reset onto 
 the track without losing much time. After resetting, your car is a ghost for a few seconds that 
 other cars can drive through. Even though the game is based on the real life Baja 1000, that race 
 isn't actually part of the career mode in it's entirety. It is broken up into several different 
 segments that are spread throughout your whole career. Most career events can be completed in less 
 than fifteen minutes, which breaks the game into short, arcade-like gameplay segments. A full, 
 three hour version of the Baja 1000 can be raced outside of the career mode, but it would have 
 been nice to get some career rewards for doing it. While none of these things really hurt the game, 
 I would have preferred if it leaned a little more away from the arcade racing. MotorStorm has that 
 category cornered and there isn't a good choice for a realistic off-road game in this genre. This 
 doesn't mean that I didn't have a blast playing, though.
  
  There is a vast number of licenced vehicles available to drive, ranging from an old Volkswagen 
 Beetle to the trophy trucks that are seen on television. There are eight categories of vehicles. 
 In the single race mode, all categories are open from the beginning, but not all the vehicles are 
 available in each until they are unlocked through the career mode. In career mode, only the first 
 category is open and experience must be earned to unlock more.
  
  Progression through the career mode is probably the best aspect of the game. Many of the events 
 are tournaments that consist of three or more tracks. Points are awarded depending on your place 
 and the winner is the driver with the most at the end of the tournament. Like MarioKart, it is 
 possible to win a tournament without ever getting first place in a race. The other type of event 
 is a rally race. These are basically just a race against the clock with other racers on the track. 
 The game tells you that although all categories of cars are on the track, you are only competing 
 against those the same as you. I don't really believe this because I have been passed by cars in 
 the same class as me but remained in first. Even though the scoring isn't entirely accurate, these 
 were still my favorite events. These were races over large areas of the desert that were usually 
 at least fifteen minutes or longer. There were no repair points in these races. If you damaged 
 your vehicle, which is bound to happen in these longer events, you have to call in a repair helicopter 
 that will land ahead of you to help you out. The higher you place in either race type, the more 
 reward credits (i. e. money) you earn to buy new vehicles or upgrade your current one. There are 
 different levels of each upgrade part, but the price difference is minimal, so there is no reason 
 to buy anything but the best parts. Credits can also be earned from sponsors. As you gain notoriety, 
 better and better sponsors will offer to put their decal on your vehicle and pay you for it. The 
 amount they pay depends on if the panel that their decal is attached to is still on the truck at 
 the end of the race. This adds an interesting aspect to the game because if you drive conservatively 
 and place second or third, you can actually make more money than if you beat the hell out of your 
 vehicle in order to make first place. Since you still earn experience from a race even if you don't 
 get first place, the next category of events can still be unlocked without always getting first; 
 it will just take longer.
  
  Since the last off-road racing game I played was MotorStorm, I was a bit disappointed by this game's 
 graphics at first. As time went on, however, I grew to like them. During the rally races, you can 
 literally see for miles and the view is amazing. The free roam mode covers nine square miles of 
 completely unrepeated land. The trucks could have looked better, but still look good. While the 
 tracks left in the dirt look nice, the mud flung up by the tires looks bad and the dust kicked 
 up dissipates too quickly. The pieces that start flying off your vehicle as it gets damaged look 
 great. As they start to fall off, they will flap in the wind and after they come loose, they will 
 remain on the track for you to run over on the next lap. Collision detection between vehicle is 
 a bit off. The collisions between bodies of the cars themselves is accurate but the tires will 
 clip into each other regularly. Once you get into a race, these issues don't really detract from 
 the action.
  
  Problems considered, I still can't stop playing this game. The action never gets old and the game 
 is always challenging. Since it seemed to have come out of nowhere, I didn't expect much. I was 
 pleasantly surprised by this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaselboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I originally bought Baja because it is one of a very few games that has a four player split-screen 
 option (side rant: attention game developers, Xbox Live is great but sometimes when we have friends 
 over, it's great for four people to play at once. Rockband is another good example of a great local 
 multiplayer game) . My two daughters and I play it all the time and their friends come over to play 
 as well. I'm going through the single player career mode as well and loving it. This game is all 
 about having a lot of fun with your friends. A buddy of mine and myself played a game of tag in 
 the freeplay mode. When we stopped, we had burned through 3 hours and were laughing most of the 
 time. I would have given this game a 9.5 if it had a map option in multiplayer so you can see the 
 whole map and where everyone else is. These maps are so huge that sometimes it's a pain just to 
 try and find someone if you've strayed apart. Overall, it can't be beat for sheer fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niteowl360
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  BAJA starts off fairly lame but with immediate potential as you feel the texture of the surface 
 you're on vibrating in your hands.
  
  Each vehicle category has its own feel and is often suited to particular tracks or terrain.
  
 
  Tuning options will please those who continuously have grease on their hands, but can be avoided 
 almost entirely if you prefer to add the default tweaks ranging from Engine to Suspension to Tyres 
 and the like.
  
  A curious exclusion is the lack of statistics available when you buy a vehicle in any given category, 
 even though each costs a different amount. Sometimes choosing a specific vehicle may assist you 
 but since the cost is generally prohibitive, vehicle purchases are not always accessible. Yes, 
 you can test drive, but not being able to do this within the upcoming event can be awkward.
  
  This came thrills from start to finish, where for example DIRT simply helped insomniacs to 
 discard there sleeping pills in favour of a late night stint.
  
  Mastering the clutch is essential to pass a couple of the Open Class events in certain leagues. 
 Mini Truck and Trophy Truck come to mind here. Tuning the Shifting options as opposed to Upgrades 
 helped enormously here!
  
  This leads to the only 'issue' I have, being that for most league events it is better to leave 
 all upgrades alone (apart from the clutch) .
  The only exception are longer races which will require the Cooling Upgrades to be purchased, otherwise 
 you'll be spending unnecessary time at the pit stops which have been executed as an enhancement 
 rather than a pain.
  
  Rally events are for this Gamer an absolute pleasure, and almost approaching RBR back in the day!
 
  
  The free roaming option and Discoveries provides enjoyment when you need relief from the leagues 
 and simply cannot bear to insert any other Xbox game into the console till the achievements are 
 completed. Here without some useful tips provided freely on the web, you may never start another 
 game till you have completed all Discoveries.
  
  Online is fine, but sadly you may see 'No Games Found' more often than not.
  If you're an achievement 
 hunter, the 50 points or so to be had online can be achieved all by yourself! Sounds ridiculous 
 but works!
  
  Whilst we're on achievements, some of the wording from THQ led many to believe 'glitches' were 
 the order of the day.
  However once you frequent the necessary forums, this becomes clearer till eventually you see the 
 glimmer of light and more importantly hear the sound that you are striving for from the console 
 (MS please change this audio event to something other than a friend logging-in!) .
  
  So, from someone with 1000 points, and probably my most fun filled 1000 points to date, this sleeper 
 from THQ is my Game of the Year.
  
  Pity about the pending Activision offering seemingly to be considerably behind this polished effort 
 from THQ, but will review when available.
  
  As for the music, one tune at menu level, but as addictive as the game.
  
  Finally, many slated 
 the graphics, I certainly cannot agree, with some terrain absolutely spectacular, and without the 
 need to blur everything as in some previous competitive offerings from Codemasters.
  
  Thank you THQ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMBIENTone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The game started out very frustrating not so much of difficult AI (even when set on easy) but some 
 of the courses are too narrow with many turns. This makes it more difficult with 10 other cars. 
 After moving up to different car classes the courses do tend to get easier and driving skill is 
 required more than just survival. 
  Multi player is good with decent load times. The only downside to multi player races is the fact 
 that when other players are nt doing so well and they quit. Not much of a problem when there are 
 enough other players but when there are only 2-3 other players it stinks. You get kicked out of 
 the race and also lose out on player stats. I have a 50% quit ratio. And, I have not quit a race 
 yet.
  
  Over all, this game is good especially, for those who are into racing games. Plenty of speed and 
 bumps with some crazy jumps. You have a clutch which is sweet for fast starts and also getting 
 out of turns. There is also a pre-load for the jumps which makes for some sick hits. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  So what's going on here then? Two off road racing games out the same day for the same price in 
 the same shops! While we believe Baja has competition, PURE, its expected rival only focuses on 
 off road quad bike racing and superb stunts, while Baja takes a Colin McRae angle by adding dune 
 buggies, motorbikes and much more into the mix, while removing the jazzy, just for fun, stunts. 
 So unlike PURE, this is off road racings at a more considerably safe level!
  
  In the few moments glimpse of playing this game, I could see its perks. The menu was expansive. 
 The career mode is way bigger than PURE is, the online options are equally as massive, despite 
 only having 6 players, and the other options are equally accessible. In fact its boosts quick play 
 modes over Career modes! But still, I jumped into career to try some fun off road, funny camera 
 angle racing.
  
  Yes you heard that right, the camera angle is actually correct for once. Rockstar promised us a 
 camera tilted further to the left in GTA 4, but it was very much strafed left and didn't feel massively 
 different. The perk with Baja is it's that its camera is, by default, from a more sensible angle, 
 which, while very confusing to start off with, works well when you are trying find any nearby opponents 
 and also for seeing corners over the next hill. 
  
  Adding to this fantastically well implanted feature, along with a massive list of options, here 
 is the new control system which is so simple that even the control mechanics of your many 30 plus 
 vehicles work well. The control like pressing the Right Trigger to accelerate and Left Trigger 
 to brake with the left thumbstick to steer, and depending on the force you give the triggers depends 
 on the speed of acceleration and deceleration. Apart from in menus, not of the other buttons, bar 
 the back camera change button, are in use during the race. The only time you will be required to 
 us more than those buttons are when you crash, when you pull the two shoulder buttons simultaneously 
 to respawn the vehicle. Luckily, it respawns you in record time and also the moments before you 
 crashed the car so your position will remain intact. 
  
  And you will get carried away with these new subtle features however the problem lies with the 
 fact that the environments you race are still as brown and gray as ever. In fact, compared to Untamed 
 earlier this year, they are probably even worse. The car physics are spot on and the environments 
 look vaguely realistic but it just feels a little bland and too little activity. Also comes the 
 problem with soundtracks. There is none! The only sound you here is the rather bad noise of your 
 battered Beetle. The soundtrack only plays in the menus and loading screens, which there are lots 
 of in excess of 20 seconds at least, and when it comes to the race, there just isn't sound. Its 
 very much like those games where you never realise there is anything on the radio until one song 
 plays really loud for a second, except there isn't any of that either. It's a shame because it 
 could have added more fun to the slightly dull racing experience.
  
  Add to this is the normal repetive by nature racing environment. Like you'll find with PURE, it 
 gets boring, quick. Racing around different tracks is fine until you realise most of them look 
 the same, and with essentially only an upgraded car and better AI, the game doesn't offer much 
 else. I know it's a big ask, but maybe mixing in some fun modes would have made it great. Like 
 before, not having a soundtrack during the races doesn't help the situation anymore. 
  
  So who has won this competition? Well from the first sight Baja has it all. Unlimited modes, stable 
 framerate, lots of vehicles, and a working camera angle, but look into the graphical and audible 
 side of things and you start to see problems. Add to this the boredom you can experience just like 
 other racers, it stops looking up and goes downhill. However PURE has a very hard control system, 
 a very unforgiving AI and not many vehicles, in fact you have to make them yourself, but it has 
 got good graphics and good soundtrack and 3 new modes to add to bag of boredom. So really it's 
 a draw. It may sound crazy but really both have brilliant and disappointing aspects from each. 
 It just depends whether you want a stunt full off road quad bike racer or an off road buggy thriller! 
 
  
  Graphics  4.0  Not great
  Soundtrack  2.0  Only in the menus and loading screens
  Last ability  8.9  So much to do, 
 and so much time taken up
  Overall  7.0  While the PURE score may be a darn sight higher, Baja has aspects which PURE never 
 had, and vice versa. Buy both and be happy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle8674
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Baja: Edge of Control is one game that you should buy. It is a pretty hard game but baja ain't 
 easy.
  
  The funniest glitch I have found so far is the AI civilian cars. When you're in a super fast vehicle 
 like a trophy truck and your doing a rally, when you get onto the paved roads and get behind a 
 civilian car or bus sometimes they whip out some kinda Nos boost or something. When I was doing 
 a Baja 250 I started to come up on one of those big buses in my Mini Truck and then all of the 
 sudden the bus started pulling away from me. I looked at me speed and I was doing 100Mph and still 
 accelerating while this bus was quickly getting out of my view.
  
  Now the Baja rallies are supposed to be long virtual miles of completely changing scenery. I was 
 supposed to never see the same thing twice, but at times I do find myself saying, "Haven't I been 
 here before?" I think what they did is take some areas and copy them for a base area and then change 
 it up a little. I don't hate them for that, I bet it's hard programming that much space in a game.
 
  
  Okay, Okay enough about glitches and complaints. Baja is a great game and has been getting addicting. 
 I love the feeling of starting a Baja rally and saying, "Ok, here I go" and start off on a race 
 that is going to take me about an hour or more.
  
  So if you want my opinion, BUY THIS GAME. It does have it's glitches but I'm sure they'll all be 
 fixed in a game sequel or maybe an add on available by Xbox LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankieDooSpace
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  =/\= Subspace Communique from Starfleet Canada =/\= 
  
  Subject: Game review. (BAJA: Edge of Control) 
  
  It's a great awesome game when you switch 
 to BAJA 250 and up multiplayer mode. Non stop dirt racing. Reminds me back in the days of SNES 
 consoles. I was so fan of these games. Thank you for bringing back the BAJA spirit. I finally own 
 a great racing game. It also makes me think back in my PC days gaming in 1996. Anyone remember 
 Monster Truck Madness 2. This game was my favorite racing. Shame that they don't have french support. 
 Nonetheless, I give it a 10 out of 10. Great game despite bad critic from GS. I think they don't 
 know how to appreciate a game the way of the heart and love. It's all about feeling, just like 
 Star Trek. Feel it! I do not feel it is MX vs ATV. It's better. I didn't like the MX vs ATV game. 
 I tried the demo and the "feel" wasn't there. It's funny, though. I was thinking so hard about 
 a BAJA game and here it is. Almost everything I think about becomes real. A last note, I think 
 it's time that all games should come out with two versions english and french here in Canada Quebec. 
 
  
  \\\/// Live long and prosper! 
  
  
  =/\= End Transmission =/\= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebird682
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  To everyone who wanted an off-road simulator, here is our game! It has everything I have wanted 
 for a game. Although there are some things missing that would have made the game a lot better.
 
  
  1. A Custom Paint option - Look at Forza 2 and how many people just unleash their talent. Would 
 have been nice in Baja
  
  2. Easy Money - Play the career, make some cash, get the next vehicle... that simple.
  
  3. 
 MUD - How come these things dont get DIRTY???
  
  4. CORR Racing - Now in the games videos from the developers, they said that circuit racing is 
 in the game. True, it is. BUT, to some CORR fans (Championship Off Road Racing) the CORR tracks 
 are not in the game! It would have been nice to have tracks like Chula Vista and Pomona but hey... nothing 
 is perfect right? The circuit races in the games are making laps around in a set place in the desert. 
 
  
  Other than those four mishaps, Baja is an excellent game, that was well worth the wait... even without 
 a demo that was promised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twolegsbad
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you're likely to notice about Baja is that its graphics suck. You'll realize with 
 time that this isn't entirely true, but that's the first thing you'll notice. The cars are sporting 
 some low resolution skins for being this many years into the current generation. And they don't 
 even get dirty! That's right, an off-road racer without adirtiness model, I guess. And there's 
 no in car view  basically the car models didn't get a lot of love. It's not ideal, but it's okay, 
 as it turns out the car skins are not the star of the show anway.
  
  The second thing you'll notice is that the subtitle "Edge of Control" really is true. The initial 
 difficulty of this game is insane. It's not because of a steep learning curve, or because of impossible 
 AI  it is because the game (realistically?) starts you off with a POS car. And when choosing your 
 pick of the POS cars there are no car stats to guide you, so you probably will pick the cool looking 
 one with the camo paint, unaware that this car sucks even among the suckers. This will make your 
 path to the top of the hill climb that much harder. Whichever you choose, your car is not equipped 
 to handle the terrain, it is heavy, with crappy tires, crappy breaks, crappy suspension, crappy 
 engine and other crappy crap. You are low man on the totem pole of the rally gods and you have 
 to earn the dough to upgrade this crap. Problem is, it is absolute murder to win money, let alone 
 a podium, in your loser ride. And the already difficult AI pulls no punches for the new guy. So 
 be prepared for some frustration  you have to win with a crappy car to get money to upgrade your 
 ride so you start to be a contender.
  
  Which brings us to the third thing you'll notice: the AI is a muthereffer and a cheat. It doesn't 
 really cheatit's more like Sebastian Loeb is behind the wheel  and, oh yeah, did we tell you 
 he's fricking blindfolded? The AI is fast and tuff, which is good. It's the blindfolded part that 
 sucks. You see, the AI drivers are out there to win, so races are tight in the first place. A single 
 wreck can and will bump you from leader of the pack to the very back. Consequently you will drive 
 like a realistically intelligent driver and do your best to avoid collisions, which most of the 
 time involve painful hang-ups and spinouts. So, you might expect equally professional, or even 
 dynamic, AI. Screw you. The AI knows one thing  it wants to follow a fast line. The AI does not 
 know that if there is something in the way, like say the players car, that it should make a good 
 faith effort to preserve pretend human life, and at least try to go around you. AI drivers will 
 broadside you, even when avoidable, and take you out of the race. They don't care if you are at 
 the end of a long race and have managed to take the lead and have gone only slightly sideways and 
 there is plenty of room to pass  they will drive right through your door, or your tailpipe, or 
 up your you-know-what if you are in their line. This is especially neat in a race with multiple 
 classes of vehicles, and you are driving a slower class, and a million dollar trophy truck that 
 started behind you will plow right through you for no good reason. Maybe I spent too much time 
 on this gripe, but the graphics and high starting difficulty really don't matter in comparison. 
 The collision happy AI is one of two issues that are actual serious problems with Baja. The good 
 thing is that this problem has no effect on multiplayer.
  
  Anyway, because of the fast-yet-blindfolded AI and your crappy first car it will take you awhile 
 to actually make it into the meat of the Baja experience. The good thing is that, by the time you 
 do, you'll have noticed more than just those nasty three things that are the first things you notice. 
 You'll have noticed that Baja is one of the absolute best racers available on the 360. You'll have 
 noticed where the developers invested their love and attention when they weren't working on the 
 car skins (which obviously was most of the time) . The true star of the show is not the cars  it 
 is the desert environment and the way the cars interact with that environment. Think of GTA IV 
  the star of the show is the living city, right? In Baja the stars are the desert terrain and 
 your suspension. You'll see birds, rabbits and tumbleweeds flee from your buggy. You'll see trees, 
 bushes, cactus, and weeds all bow, bend, crush and react to impact realistically. Trees will stop 
 you cold, but they are no longer the immovable pillars of heaven we are used to, no longer like 
 hitting a super powered brick wall. The trees don't do much, just give a little, but the point 
 is that there is loving detail evident in this game. No one would have noticed if the trees were 
 the same old invincible trees, but they improved them anyway. And you get to view it all with an 
 impressive draw distance that allows you to enjoy the beauty of the clear sky desert as far as 
 the eye can see.
  
  And then you get to run over it all. The suspension and traction physics in this game are intense 
 and will have you watching every detail in the lovingly rendered rugged terrain as you fly over 
 it at 150 mph. And the damage model is excellent and realistic, obviously another area that received 
 a lot of polish. The Baja desert and your fleeting contact with it are the life of this game. And 
 the quick and easy option to restart a race (painfully absent in BO Paradise)  well this option 
 is the other star of the game and you are going to need it.
  
  There are a bunch of good options and variety in single player, but Baja really shines in multiplayer 
 too. That is worth mention. First of all, offline you have a four-player split screen option that 
 makes this game one of the few that can accommodate someone having real life friends  huge plus 
 in my book, and even two player split screen would be good enough but is disappointingly missing 
 from most games. Secondly, the online options are good, you can do any event or even free ride. 
 Online is what you wished it would have been in DIRT. And now in a better game than DIRT. With 
 worse graphics. The only real sore point with online is that when you pop into an ongoing race 
 to wait for the next race, there is no real way to tell how long you'll have to wait. The current 
 race could be about to end, or it could be another hour. There is no real indicator either before 
 or after you choose to join the race. Choosing "quick start" might pop you, as a spectator, into 
 an ongoing race that has a half hour to go. And there is no way to tell, so you are left guessing 
 and wasting time popping in and out of races looking for one that is ready to go. So, the multiplayer 
 isn't at the level of something like Test Drive Unlimited, but it is substantial.
  
  So, bottom line, Baja may have a few high profile flaws, but the truth is that it is maybe the 
 second racer for the 360, after TDU, that is truly worth the $60 retail price tag. Not because 
 it is perfect, but because it is just plain more fun than the competition with all its 1080p cars 
 that can get dirty. Not that I don't love 1080p cars that can get dirty, Baja could be better if 
 it had some, but instead it pushed the envelope and expanded and improved the genre. They apparently 
 reached for the sky and didn't have time or budget maybe for Polyphony Digital quality car skins. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  baja is a very exciting racer..
  1. the career mode is plain and simple, menu   click n choose   play. well ya some upgrades too..
 
  2. then comes the handling of the vehicles. well certainly none of us expected a simulation baja 
 racing from the developers, so vehicles behave like real rugged ones. the steering seems to get stuck 
 after turns and the damage seems to always concentrate on the tyres loosing control over steering 
 the vehicles
  it takes a while before you master them.
  3. the upgrade section which all of any serious racer looks forward to dosent show where each upgrade 
 goes to in the vehicle body, hence the vehicle appears the same after your precious won money is 
 spent.. yeah certainly the performance change is noticed!!
  4. graphics for a next gen game is something all of us wait for and its mediocre.
  well there 
 is a lot of racing, hard turns and difficult controls give it a serious tough baja racing look.. there 
 is so much serious racing that you will slowly feel the game growing on you. in one way, multiplayer 
 is fun, split screen mode is fun too, vehicle shock physics are brilliantly shown and felt, the preload 
 dosen work verywell or rather is too difficult to judge where to be used, helicopter help is fun.
 
  in short go for it if you feel its time to handle a mature racer. again glows on the xbox 360. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
