-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/banjokazooie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Vehicular creation tool is robust and easy to use.
 Missions can be tackled in a variety of creative ways.
 Visuals are distinct and inviting.
 Soundtrack provides a great backdrop.
 Lots of replay value and a cool multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Control for land vehicles is touchy.
 Frame-rate drops are infrequent but still punishing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 59 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,095 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rare Ltd.
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Nov 12, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An excellent vehicle creator and a variety of fun missions make Banjo's return to gaming a blast. 
 

  The heyday of collecting oodles of shiny objects across expansive worlds may be gone, but that 
 just means that former platforming heroes will have to evolve with the times. Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts 
 &amp; Bolts takes the basic structure from the duo's previous adventures, strips out the oft-mocked 
 collect-a-thon demands, and slaps an intricate vehicle-creation tool on top. The result is a unique 
 twist on a classic formula that doesn't feel like anything else out there. With a powerful yet 
 wonderfully simple creation tool providing the backbone of your quest, the various tasks spread 
 out across six worlds are novel, engaging, and, most importantly, fun. Despite some control annoyances, 
 Nuts &amp; Bolts is an innovative return for two of gaming's forgotten stars.  

           A reasonable person would be terrified to be suspended in the air by little more than 
 two balloons.      

  Ever since Banjo last defeated Gruntilda, there hasn't been any demand for a heroic bear with a 
 bird in his backpack. With nothing to occupy their time, the duo has gotten fat and lazy, spending 
 their days eating pizza and playing video games. Gruntilda is in even worse shape: Her body has 
 been destroyed, so she's little more than a hopping head with a bad attitude. This hardly sets 
 the stage for an interesting battle. Thankfully, the Lord of Games interrupts a potentially embarrassing 
 fight between the bear and the skull by proposing a competition: Banjo will have to traverse six 
 worlds equipped with a vehicle-creating wrench while Grunty tries to stop him. The winner gets 
 the deed to Spiral Mountain whereas the loser toils away in the Lord of Games' video game factory. 
 The story is amusing, but the action is where the main draw lies.  

  The level progression is very similar to previous games in the series. Each of the worlds is huge, 
 requiring a deft hand and a keen eye to explore everything that it has to offer. Jiggies are also 
 back. These serve as the prize for completing missions and open new worlds to explore. Although 
 this might sound familiar, there is one significant difference: Exploration has been made optional. 
 The forced hunt for shiny goodies -- the hallmark of 3D platformers -- has been virtually removed in 
 N&amp; B, replaced with a series of easily accessed missions. Musical notes still litter the lands, 
 but collecting these is optional as well. They serve as currency to buy more parts for your vehicles, 
 but given that you earn parts anyway just by playing, you won't have to search for notes if you'd 
 rather just focus on the action. The clear directive to earn more jiggies keeps the game moving 
 at a brisk pace, letting you ponder what sort of cool vehicle to build rather than trying to figure 
 out what you need to do next.  

  Seeing as how Banjo is just a slow, unathletic bear this time around, you'll have to rely on vehicles 
 to complete your tasks. The building tool is the core of N&amp; B, and it not only lets you create 
 whatever bizarre contraptions you can imagine, but it is incredibly easy to work with as well. 
 The only requirement is that everything you build needs a seat for Banjo to sit on. Everything 
 else is up to you. You can create a heavy tank loaded with missiles, a sleek airplane with a magnet 
 for scooping up objects, or a bipedal robot with springs for feet. The ease with which you can 
 construct these vehicles makes it possible to breathe life into whatever idea you can come up with. 
 The workshop lets you quickly snap pieces into place, tweak placement for best effect, and then 
 test out your idea at the track. Within minutes, even the craziest ideas can be realized. Creating 
 can be so fun that it's possible to lose sight of the missions and just focus on building off-the-wall 
 vehicles that have no relevance in the game world, but are really funny to see in action.  

           One sweet hovercraft in under five minutes.      

  The ease of creation ties in 
 beautifully with the mission structure. The objectives are generally kept vague -- win a race or 
 move an object over there -- so you are free to complete them however you wish. For instance, in 
 one mission, you will have to defend a golden egg from a squadron of angry bombers. You could build 
 a large tank and shoot missiles at would-be attackers as they attempt to destroy this opulent object. 
 Or you could build a helicopter with a tray and shuttle the golden egg out of harm's way. Most 
 missions are structured in this manner, letting you creatively attack any problem presented to 
 you. Pushing objects out of a ring with a giant fork may be functional, but it's even more entertaining 
 to attach springs to the front of your vehicle and launch them far off into the distance. There 
 are prebuilt vehicles available if you would rather not spend your time in a workshop, but you'll 
 soon find yourself trying to outsmart the designers with whatever oddball idea tickles your fancy. 

  The one downside to this unrestrained customizability is some annoying control quirks. Your vehicles 
 will cruelly conform to real-life physics, so if your weight isn't spread out properly, you'll 
 be stuck with a fancy-looking paperweight. This can be avoided with thoughtful construction, but 
 bumpy roads provide a more lasting obstacle. Your vehicle is prone to spin wildly if you hit a 
 hill the wrong way or brush against a pipe jutting out from a wall. Due to this sensitivity, navigating 
 around the environment can be difficult until you come to grips with the handling. With a little 
 practice, you'll learn when to let off the gas and how to avoid debris without spinning out, making 
 on-the-ground missions fast and exciting, but be prepared to wreck often in the early goings. The 
 air and water vehicles perform much better, letting you gracefully navigate treacherous lagoons 
 or pull off loop-de-loops with nary a hitch. It's a shame that there aren't more water sections, 
 because cutting through waves is really a blast.  

  Land and sea alike look quite impressive in Nuts &amp; Bolts. The worlds are large and inviting, 
 blending bright colors into a cheery tapestry. Nutty Acres is particularly noteworthy in the way 
 it constructs a rich playground in which the grass looks like it was sewn together in the style 
 of a patchwork quilt, the metallic clouds hang from sturdy guy-wires, and the sky is painted onto 
 a wall. Although all of the worlds have their own unique flavor, there is one problem with all 
 this extravagance: The frame rate is sometimes unstable. Most of the time the game moves at a steady 
 clip, but there are brief moments when you will almost be able to count the frames of animation 
 as they slowly peel away. This doesn't happen often, but it can be frustrating when it hits in 
 the middle of a tight race. Additionally, when you're buying parts for your vehicles, the game 
 sometimes slows down considerably, turning a simple trip to the store turn into a prolonged ordeal. 

  Thankfully, the music suffers no such issues, and players will find it delightfully immersive. 
 Though some of the tracks have been pulled from previous games in the franchise, they have been 
 remixed here, providing a strong soundtrack for all of the wacky vehicular fun. Each world has 
 its own unique score, but what's interesting is how the music subtly changes while you explore. 
 Instruments will drop in and out depending on the situation, molding the tune to your immediate 
 surroundings. Aside from the gibberish speak which remains largely the same as it was 10 years 
 ago, the rest of Nuts and Bolts has been boldly updated.  

           That heavy aircraft is headed for a spectacular crash.      

  The multiplayer mode 
 lets you compete in most of the activities from the single-player adventure against up to seven 
 of your friends. Showing off your wacky wares online is a blast; you're urged to design vehicles 
 that are not only functional, but look awesome as well. The competitions take place across the 
 six worlds from the game, and each of them -- from simple races to trying to score soccer goals -- are 
 fast and exciting. One unique twist is being able to control time. You can rewind your car by holding 
 the back button, allowing you to erase a flubbed turn or embarrassing crash. This adds another 
 layer of chaos to the action -- you're more likely to try for a kamikaze attack if you can continue 
 on like nothing happened. Another cool feature is being able to share your creations with friends. 
 Blueprints can be easily sent to other players, letting you share your tips for toppling the multiterrain 
 end boss or just flaunt your magic spring chair.  

  Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts &amp; Bolts is a fantastically fun update to an aging formula. The easy vehicle-creation 
 tool makes even the craziest ideas possible, and the missions let you exert your creative muscle 
 in spectacular fashion. Aside from a few control quirks and frame-rate issues, N&amp; B is a joy 
 from beginning to end, providing a constant string of new parts and objectives to keep you entertained 
 for a long time. If this is the direction that the Banjo franchise is going in, let's hope it's 
 not another eight years between games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sausageroll_78
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is a more advanced verson of the Old Banjo-Kazooie.
  Because theres more things you can make, Do, and love. The graphics fit the game perfectly, The 
 strange landscape haven't been poorly made, So this game has amazing features but the best is how 
 you can make your own Vehicles, To Fly, Float and drive around bumpy hills or if your flying it 
 flys swiftly across the city and more, This game has to be a must buy since its not just a kid 
 game but a adult game since, Its very enjoyable and if you don't like this game, The go to hell. 
 Because you cannot miss out on this. I think its about 18pounds or 21dollers now. I think but still 
 any price buy it.
  9.0/10 It still missed the classic stuff which was in the others which made people Wow! you probably 
 know what i mean so I'm not going into detail because now I'm on Xboxlive chatting to mates who 
 need help on it.
  Anyways BUY IT.
  and i may see you online :) .
  But i have new games add me if you need help on it or just add me to chat. Look on my profile for 
 xboxlive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts is a solid game all around. The game plays well, looks amazing, and 
 the witty humour from the Rare staff in England is still all there.
  
  The storyline is pretty interesting. Grunty's head pops out and she goes straight after Banjo again. 
 The Lord of Games intervenes and puts them into a new world, Showdown Town. Here you'll travel 
 the world and go to other worlds where you'll inevitably fight against Grunty and get the deeds 
 to Spiral Mountain.
  
  So you make vechicles and you can drive, float, fly, or fight with these vechicles. The point is 
 to beat all the little challenges in the levels to get Jiggies and Trophies. Now some vechicles 
 just ticked the hell out of me but others felt so natural. The missions are fun even though they 
 get really repetitive. Luckily, Rare made a wise choice in making most challenges different so 
 it doesn't feel as reptitive as it could have been. 
  
  Now let's go to the car bulding aspect of the game. Now I'm terrible at making things in this game 
 but that does not mean I hated the customization. Playing online I've seen creative people making 
 amazing vechicles. From the Batmobile to Grunty's Final Boss Tank in Banjo Tooie, I've seen amazing 
 things. It just shows that Rare did something right. I may not have been the beneficiary of the 
 awesomeness that was creating vechicles, but I did see and drive many awesome ones created by others.
 
  
  The graphics and sound is what really makes the game amazing. The graphics are beautiful. I played 
 on both an HD and a standard TV and the game just looks awesome. Technically wise, the game does 
 have some bad framerate issues at times which is unfortunate. However, the most times I had these 
 problems was when I was in the menu at shops so it didnt really bother me during the gameplay as 
 much. The orchestrated music is just regular Banjo awesomeness that all fans should be aware of. 
 Hearing the Spiral Mountain theme just took me away. 
  
  My big problem with the game was that it could have been so much more. For 40 bucks you couldnt 
 really go wrong but Nuts and Bolts is at its best in Showdown Town. In Showdown Town there is alot 
 of collecting, alot of searching, and alot of driving around being amazed by the beautiful graphics. 
 Now if ever level was like Showdown Town I would have no complaints. However, levels are basically 
 just notes and challenges. If they threw in a couple hidden jiggies in levels I think the game 
 would have been so much more entertaining.
  
  Anyways, the game is amazing. The graphics are beautiful, the sound is simply wonderful, and the 
 gameplay is fun. For 40 bucks the game is a steal and I look forward to hopefully another Banjo 
 game where the better aspects of this game is combined with the more platforming aspects of the 
 original Banjos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CryingHero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Nuts & Blots is a breath of fresh air for a games industry full of generic and same seeming games. 
 Following on from the original story line N&B continues but completly brings many new contributions 
 to the Platform genre, something that was needed.
  
  Once past the slightly annoying pre-load screens and into the game world the controls are easy 
 to pick up, this includes the assembly of the many cars, trucks, planes and boats that can be made 
 using 100's of parts found through out the game. These parts can be painted, stacked, tested, rotated, 
 flipped, and much much more.
  The controls while driving can be a bit chunky at times and may cause you to restart some challenges 
 which can become very fustrating.
  
  When the controls and game runs smoothly, N&B delivers where no other game does, providing hours 
 of endless fun and ignites the creative mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnixFan13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:22 pm PT
Review:  In Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts, you play as Banjo (obviously) , with the help of his his bird 
 sidekick-Kazooie, as they are placed in a game world created by the Lord Of Games (L. O. G.) , with 
 the ultimate task of defeating your nemesis Gruntilda. Nuts and Bolts actually strays from the 
 original Banjo-Kazooie formula by making the game very vehicle-based, making you use vehicles for 
 almost every challenge. Nuts and Bolts also has a fantastic vehicle creator, with hundreds of parts 
 to choose from in creating your own custom vehicle, allowing for endless vehicle creations. Often 
 times though, I find Banjo to be a some what boring character, but Kazooie tends to liven everything 
 up with his blunt and insulting (and funny) comments. One thing I think would have improved this 
 game quite a bit was if Rare had given the main characters voices. The graphics for this game are 
 great giving the game a much more cartoony look, but that is a characteristic of platformers. So 
 overall Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts is just great in general, and I would recommend it to any 
 fan of the genre or someone looking for a fun, unique game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solar111
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Back in the good old days, I played the Banjo series (Banjo Kazooie and Banjo Tooie) over and over. 
 The colourfull platforming worlds with wacky characters, adventurous item hunting, and funny dialogues 
 where what made me enjoy these games. It was just plain fun running, climbing and exploring through 
 these worlds, hunting the Jiggies, Jinjo's, Notes and progress further and further into Grundilda's 
 murky lair. Banjo Kazooie even got better (although a bit more darker and grittier) in Banjo-Tooie. 
 With bigger worlds, wich where at some points connected to eachother, With loads of new moves, 
 some familiar and new faces. It became more challenging to get jiggies then in the first game. 
 
  
  Af first i was very exited to hear that a new Banjo game would be released. But the moment I heard 
 it involved vehicle building and basically no platforming, I saw a dark cloud looming above this 
 game. 
  
  So now I have played it for severall hours. And for me it just misses the old spirit of the former 
 games. Fist the story, its kind of cheesy and for me feels a bit simple, like there's no real heroic 
 purpose, no great evil to defeat, no one to really save from evil cluthes. We could have kicked 
 grunty's head into dust, but then the L. O. G shows up, and he decides that there should be an contest. 
 A contest?? I just want to kick evil's ass not compete in a stupid contest.
  
  We get ripped of our once so great Moves set, and get turned into a pair of disabled game characters. 
 Who get to ride around in an wheelchair (err ShoppingCart) ... sigh.. no more Wonder Wing, Springy 
 shoes, claw attacks, back-flip jumps etc... well we can still swim though. 
  
  O. K so we get dropped in Showdown town, it looks really nice, escpecialy when its night with the 
 stars glittering in the sky, but somehow it misses something, those Rhino's, Pigs and Pinguins 
 running around saying the same old (not to so meaningfull) things over and over again dont improve 
 that for me. 
  
  Then we enter the first world, and then every world gets treated like some kind of childs T. V series. including 
 the cast list for that world. Every world is an different episode. This even breaks up the adventuring 
 spirit further down. They might as well have organised a Banjo BBQ. 
  
  Then there's this idea of creating custom vehicles, well its an good idea, but I dont find it refined 
 and getting boring fast. Making clunky looking vehicles from parts that look like their taken from 
 a scrapheap. So we build a car for a race, or use an standard blueprint in the beginning, but further 
 in the game we constantly have to adjust the vehicles to get the best out of the challenges. And 
 then still it all feels clunky. Like i'm not in control, and driving in a brick. 
  It just doesn't fit with Banjo-Kazooie. 
  
  Well from there its basically all the same, so 
 the worlds look different, and have their own theme. But its the same old boring characters over 
 and over again. With their cheesy problems in their cheesy soap-episode worlds. and it all comes 
 down to the same old things. Bring Object (s) from A to B, compete in a race, Bash a Jinjo out of 
 a ring.
  
  No real enemies, exept for those irritating bots that grunty set on us, No funny characters like 
 the ones from the first games. No funny mini-games or exploring, or a bit of puzzling to get the 
 Jiggies.
  I just feel like iv'e stranded in some B-movie every time every time I enter an world and seek 
 out the Jiggy challenges. Just following the Jiggy icon on the map, the worlds look good but don't 
 even interest me, cos their just serve as an stage for those boring vehicle challenges, there really 
 nothing else to explore or to discover, only some notes littered here and there. Its just the setup 
 of this game that makes it lack the magic of the former Banjo games. 
  
  Now i realise that i should not look at this game as an traditional platformer. But I whish they 
 had made it like one. There was nothing wrong with Banjo-Kazooie as an traditional platformer.
 
  I'm glad they released BK on XBLA, and looking forward playing Banjo-Tooie too. I will surely 
 enjoy that more.
  I Can only hope that one day they will make a game, worthy of the first 2 games, as for me Nuts 
 & Boltst isn't. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubalfa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay If you played Banjo Kazooie back in the n64 days then forget everything you know about 
 it, Banjo Kazooie is platformer but not a conventional one, as everthing is made to take advantage 
 of the create a vehicle system. Banjo has only a couple of movements at his disposal, he can jump, 
 swim and clim poles and thats it, kazooie is only able to carry things wih the magic wrench given 
 to her early in the game, or do a spin attack, so the big star here is Mumbo motors, in this auto 
 shop you are able to build your own vehicles, with pieces you buy or get doing missions, anything 
 goes here, there is only one rule, you should have a seat for Banjo, apart from that you are able 
 to put piece after piece of anything you want, the options the game gives you seem endless, you 
 have body parts, weapons, items, miscellaneous, gadgets, and everything, the most interesting thing 
 here are the physics and motor rules, of course if you want to do a bike then you need a motor 
 to make it move and to make the motor work you need fuel, vehivles can fly if they have the parts 
 to do it, so you can have wings, propellers, or even balloons to make your vehicle sky high, or 
 have floaters for a bot or sinkers for submarines, of course you can mix all of this styles into 
 one vehicle and its the fun part about it, designers at Rare made it simple if you want your vehicle 
 to be faster put more extra motors on it and everything works this way, I made a tank (imagine 
 a big panzer) wich is able to float in the water with just a button press, or can get into the 
 air with other button, obviously it can shred you to tiny pieces if you let it, so if you have 
 creativity you can make the craziest things you can imagine, oh and of course there is a trial 
 field for your vehicles... oh and you can also paint them wathever color you want
  The good
  +Vehicle Creation is pretty fun and dynamic
  +seeing a vehicle working makes you feel great
 
  +pieces seem unlimited
  The bad
  - Banjo and Kazooie are just to dumb to play with them
  - sometimes physics are your deadliest enemy
  
  Presentation as the Banjo and Kazooie of old, 
 every character in the game doesnt have a voice, they make weird noises when they speak, so its 
 kind of funny to hear them nowadays, the music is is really good as it is what you may expect from 
 an animated movie, there are some of the classic Banjo Kazooie tunes in a mixed version, the new 
 ones are not as good, but they get the job done, also the vehicles you create make very unique 
 sounds based on the pieces they have so they sound wacky. The graphics in N & B are good, they 
 are pretty easy to the eyes, and colorful, in some cinemas they seem like a pixar movie, so i found 
 it to be great, the characters animations are not as good as the visuals, but it doesnt interfere 
 in the game flow, as for the enviroments just one word.. amazing, every game world is pretty unique 
 from showdown town to banjoland, they are all great and really nice to explore, the vehicles you 
 make at the beginning may seem clunky and simple but as you get experience and parts they become 
 more complex and pretty. And as pointed in the gameplay physics are kind of realistic and impressive
 
  The good
  +wacky enviroment makes you feel like in a cartoon
  +sound effects and music are the way you want them to be
  + physics
  The bad
  -maybe the 
 character noises annoy you from time to time
  -some clunky animations on the citizens of Showdown town
  
  Single Player the Story in N & 
 B is the same as in the old games... Gruntilda the witch is back and she is only a jumping skull, 
 and she want revenge on banjo so she decides to challenge banjo to a Collect everything you can 
 imagine race, Banjo is not the athletic bear of old instead he is pretty chubby because he has 
 now a life of lazyness. So the race begins and at half point t the game the Lord Of Games (L. O. G.) 
 makes his debut telling them to stop that the collection is not what players want anymore, os he 
 makes a special game for them to compete, Banjo stops grunty using a magic wrench, and Grunty is 
 just mean. With this premise starts N & B its nothing from outer world, the game puts you to collect 
 jigsaws as in theg ames of old, but this time you dont have to find them, they are awards given 
 you by certain characters for completing challenges through the game worlds, your mission is still 
 to collect jiggies to unlock doors, and proceed through the levels completing each challenge, so 
 collect is the key word here, as you have to collect jiggies, trophies wich are given to you by 
 Trophy Thomas if you make a challenge in a certain amount of time or with a certain score, you 
 also have to collect musical notes to buy stuff through the game such as blueprints, some jiggies 
 or even vehicle pieces, the game has 6 game worlds each with lots of chapters and challenges so 
 in order to complete the game you have to complete as many challenges as possible. there are also 
 some minigames or options such as Klungo saves the world, Jinjo Bingo etc. the single player game 
 will take you a while to complete and with the vehicle creation it wont get old, just certain missions 
 give you a set vehicle for it but other than those wich are few, you are free to create whatever 
 you want. Oh I almost forgot, yo uare also able to save the replay of any challenge and send it 
 to a friend
  The Good
  +pretty funny game with jokes and gags.
  +freedom to complete tasks
  +game worlds are huge
  The Bad
  -just 6 worlds
  -a few missions 
 dont let you change or build your vehicles
  
  Multiplayer
  
  N & B multiplayer is mindless fun most of the time, as it pits you in different game types with 
 the vehicles you have created in the single player, game modes are varied there are races, soccer, 
 waterpolo, sumo fights, team games etc, they dont suffer from variety, the game modes are fresh 
 enough to keep you coming for more, and even more if you like the vehicle creation system, the 
 bad thing about this is that some players have vehicles created for certain game modes, and if 
 you are not prepared you will loose to easy, other interesting multiplayer feats are the ability 
 to send blueprints, screenshots or videos to your friends. also there is a party mode where you 
 get to compete in any game list you want with friends or random people
  The good
  +ability to choose your created vehicles
  +too many game modes
  +wacky races and crazy action 
 will make you laugh more than once
  +share blueprints or videos
  The bad
  -some players are too prepared
  
  Take this game witout thinking of the Banjos of old, it is 
 a great game and some fresh air for the platform genre, it will last you long, and if you get into 
 vehicle creation you will be more time thee than in the game modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  I can remember many, many years ago being totally and utterly hooked on the first Banjo-Kazooie 
 game. It seemed like the most inventive game of its time and one of the only games that I could 
 remember very clearly playing as a kid.
  
  So, I bought the new Banjo for my boy for Christmas with the full intention of playing the snot 
 out of it too. Well, it is not what I expected and am still not sure if I like the game at all, 
 which is weird because I love the characters. I quickly find myself getting board of playing after 
 only 30 minutes and I do not want to be because I was so fond of the original.
  
  I am not going to give up on it yet but am fairly disappointed up to this point. Yes, it is still 
 fun and strange but I really do not know if I am going to finish the game at this point. It is 
 neat to be able to create your own vehicles but I often feel like I do not really know what the 
 point is and do not really care either.
  
  So, if you are expecting the same type of game as the original Banjo, then this is not it at all. 
 But if you want a weird and fun game to play with not expectations of greatness, it is pretty neat 
 and original.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  Being the follow up to two of the best platform games in memory, Nuts & Bolts has a lot to live 
 up to. Although "Grunty" mentioned Banjo-Treie 8 years ago, the unique game developer decided to 
 take the series in a new direction, thereby a new name. They've not just adjusted the Banjo formula, 
 but with thinking completely out of the box, Rare has made a pillar, sideway, maybe a small revolution 
 for the platform genre. Cause where you once searched for puzzle pieces and learned new moves for 
 the bear and his sarcastic backpack buddy, you now drive around in all kinds of self-made vehicles 
 where your piece of junk on wheels has to do all the work. Cause there is work to be done. 
  
  Cause once again Gruntilda is up for a fight, but when pathetically trying to beat down our 
 now fat and lazy bear and bird, the game pauses. That's when L. O. G., creator of all video games, 
 comes in and demands something fresh and new. So he sends us all to his own world where our lovable 
 duo can fight the hag in new exciting manners. You now start collecting vehicle parts, funds (notes) , 
 and building vehicles in every imaginable shapes. Being built up pretty much like the previous 
 Banjo Kazooie games, with a hub area which leads to several worlds where you collect puzzle pieces, 
 the game is very different than anything else on the market. Rare hasn't been at the top of it's 
 game since joining Microsoft for the next generation, but when doing something like this with one 
 of their most beloved series no one can say they don't live up to their name. 
  
  The game sets off very quickly, and it wont be long till you are driving, flying and floating around 
 this huge game world in all kinds of vehicle lookalike pieces of scrap. Cause you can really make 
 whatever you want, that being a helicopter or a naval ship. And the whole process of making it 
 in Mumbo Jumbo's garage is a cakewalk. It doesn't take a lot of practice nor time in general to 
 make your vehicle of choice, and the whole reason for making that vehicle is so that you can win 
 the games various challenges and earn the highly acclaimed puzzle pieces. You drive around in this 
 hub area where you play some mini-games, and do some enjoyable exploring of this crowded town. 
 From here you travel into a total of 6 different game worlds which contains many different challenges. 
 These span from escorting passengers from A to B, all the way to more complex challenges like playing 
 domino size XXL, and protecting a jogger on his daily training route. And while doing this you 
 are looking at the most visually stunning platform game to date. The scenery and overall attention 
 to detail is breathtaking. How everything looks homemade from L. O. G.'s very own working bench, 
 with clouds hanging from wires, and the surroundings only put up on huge screens all around this 
 made up "Nutty Acres" (World 1) . 
  
  The soundtrack that accompanies these stunning locations are nostalgic and fun, mostly being remakes 
 of old classics from the previous games. I found this very fitting for a game that on almost every 
 other level does something different than before. The voice acting is the same, with weird funny 
 gibberish talking representing each character. Having said so much good about the game there are 
 some negative issues to mention. The cut-scenes feels unpolished and half-done, but when summed 
 up in under a dozen, it doesn't ruin the overall experience. But the game's biggest problem is 
 the entertainment value. Cause the game can feel very frustrating at times, and repeating very 
 similar challenges over and over again just to add puzzle pieces to the growing pile becomes very 
 tedious. But apart from these issues, the game very, very good. 
  
  Being one of the most highly original games in recent memory, you should not miss out on Banjo 
 Kazooie Nuts & Bolts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 85072
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing out of the way. If you have never played a Banjo-Kazooie game before you will 
 most likely enjoy this game. If you are a series veteran such as myself you may be disappointed. 
 Nuts and Bolts is a love it or hate it game. While it has a lot of flaws, it can still be fun.
 
  
  Taking 8 years after Banjo-Tooie our heroes have grown large and lazy. Grunty still lives and is 
 still looking to get her revenge after the events of Tooie. Before they go into battle a mysterious 
 being known as L. O. G appears before them and decides to finish their battle once and for all. He 
 then transports them to a place called showdown town which is his own created world. From there 
 you must create vehicles to travel to different game worlds to collect jiggies and defeat Grunty.
 
  
  First off i must say that this is a really beautiful looking game. Game worlds are beautifully 
 detailed as with the characters. Its definitely one of the best looking games Rare has made. It 
 also keeps the original soundtrack from the first 2 games with some of them being remixed. This 
 to me is one of the highlights of the game.
  
  So its looks good and sounds good, but does it play well? Well the answer is 50/50. Creating vehicles 
 is really easy once you get used to it and is also fun. You easily create a good vehicle in 5 minutes. 
 Controlling air and water vehicles is fun and easy. Land vehicles however are TERRIBLE! If your 
 land vehicle is too fast or too light it will easily flip over. If you try to do a sharp turn your 
 land vehicle will spin out of control. Most missions are also very frustrating since they are time 
 based and since some require speed this is where the controls can really ruin the experience. Some 
 missions are also repetitive and some will require you to make a new vehicle which can get annoying 
 since it happens a lot. There is some platforming but it is very basic and not really the main 
 focus of the game. There are about six game worlds with different acts in each. The game worlds 
 are large but there is not much exploration to them. Its simply find a character, speak to him, 
 accept mission, complete and get jiggy.
  
  So its like I said before, it is a love it or hate it game. In my opinion I would of preferred 
 a Banjo-Threeie over this. Compared to the first 2 games it sucks. On its own however its alright.
 
  
  PROS:
  - Good Graphics
  - Excellent soundtrack
  - Good customization
  - Has some Banjo feeling
  - Some good missions
  - Cool looking game worlds
  
  CONS:
  
 - Broken controls
  - Game worlds feel empty
  - repetitive missions
  - boring new characters
  - Vehicle based
  - Very few platforming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffx2911
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is the 3rd in a long line of fun whether your the action type or fast and the furious 
 this game is the game for you. The plot in this game is a simple one but will give lots of fun 
 you see gruntilda the witch has finally made it back from a cauldron keep and wants to turn spiral 
 mountain into a strip mall so before these two are at it again log shows up and teleports them 
 to showdown town where they compete in jiggy chalenges to see who will get the deed to spiral mountain. 
 this game gives you hours of fun vehicle making anyhing you want stop n swap is also in this game 
 and can give you exclusive parts but only if you have the banjo kazooie xbla version where you 
 find many colorful eggs and long hours to get this but dont worry you dont have to but if you do 
 its 1200 points. this game was worth the wait and will tie up some loose ends in the banjo series 
 a must buy. for me its a 10/10 but gamespot gives it an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is..... OK. The first two are much much much better, and you should get those on 
 the Xbox 360 dashboard. This game revolves too much on vehicles, although making them is fun, it 
 is really complicated. Finding pieces are really hard and not fun at all. The story is that the 
 Videogame King has you and Gruntilda, and you have to beat her. You unlock new worlds and levels 
 by collecting jiggies, which is not that fun. The game gets boring real quick. Multiplayer sucks. 
 It is complicated and way too hard. Air vehicles are also really hard to control. The story sucks, 
 multiplayer sucks, and it gets boring. Its alright though because it still has that "Banjo-Kazooie 
 Feeling" to it when you play. You see all of your old friends and enemies in the game which is 
 pretty cool. This game is worth a rent, not a buy. If you are expecting a Banjo-Kazooie/Tooie game, 
 this game is no where near that. The game got boring after a couple of hours because its the same 
 thing over and over again. Destroy your enemy by bumping into them, racing them, and collecting 
 the Jiggy at the end. Graphics and sound are great, but it doesnt make this game good enough. Hardly 
 any replay value unless you really love Banjo-Kazooie. Im a huge fan and found this game a huge 
 dissapointment. Its basically just a racing game with random missions involved, not a Banjo game. 
 If you like racing games get this, if you don't, don't waste your time on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  Awesome: Vehicle creator has endless possibilities; Outstanding visuals and music; Tons of ways 
 to complete tasks; Laugh out loud funny...
  
  Not so Awesome: Will likely disappoint Banjo purists; shaky land vehicle physics...
  ---------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  We knew it was coming, but we didn't expect this. Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts n Bolts is the 3rd game in 
 the main Banjo series and is also a huge departure from its forebearers. Is this a bad thing? Has 
 Rare eternally screwed up its beloved franchise? Well, it depends on how you look at it. 
  
  Nuts n Bolts is the 360's take on Littlebigplanet. Namely, revolving a great game around user 
 created content. While Littlebigplanet focused on the time consuming task of level creation, Banjo-Kazooie 
 forces you to make the vehicles to traverse the world and complete missions. This game could have 
 bombed big time if the vehicle creator wasn't easy or fun. Fortunately, Rare did it right.
  
  It would take forever to explain, but making vehicles for each and every mission is both a 
 blessing and a curse. It all depends on your tastes. I for one, can't stand being given a task 
 and then being told that I need to be sent to some damn garage and work on a vehicle for ten minutes 
 before I can make that task wish I had never come along. I like to jump straight into the action. 
 It took some time, but I finally learned to be patient and really work on using the vehicle creator 
 to my advantage (I'm a pretty creative person) . It's very satisfying to know that your own creation 
 just completed a very tough challenge, especially after what could be hours of trial and error. 
 Call it dull, but that's the kind of game Nuts and Bolts is. If you aren't willing to look past 
 the new system and have the patience to enjoy this amazing game, I suggest you keep on playing 
 the N64 titles. 
  
  The missions themselves are usually a blast. I personally think there are too many races in the 
 bunch, but they are well mixed in with some truly creative and unique challenges. I never thought 
 I'd have so much fun pushing George Ice Cube up the Freezeezy Peak Snowman's scarf or driving a 
 vehicle with backwards controls while avoiding dominos, but I guess anything can be enjoyable if 
 done correctly. Some missions (about a quarter of them) actually give you a vehicle ready to go 
 so you can just rely on your skill alone. This is a pleasant break from building as you'll find 
 that you'd much rather be spending time in the game worlds than in Mumbo's garage. 
  
  Nostalgia is there, but in different forms. The main characters have returned and are for all intents 
 and purposes similar to their N64 counterparts. The game also references the past titles A LOT. 
 I also like how the game makes fun of video games and gamers in general. For example, at one point 
 Grunty has polluted the LogBox720 glubber pool with cat poop and claims she will only leave if 
 Banjo and Kazooie beat her in a race. At that point, Kazooie remarks, "So you're saying that if 
 we beat you in a race you're going to call of the whole plan and leave?" and Banjo goes, "Yeah 
 that is weird. I was in a similar situation once with a Genie and a giant pig." An obvious reference 
 to Diddy Kong Racing. The game also has a tendency to mock today's gaming generation as obsessed 
 with shooters and incapable of handling a real challenge, using the Rusty Bucket Bay level from 
 1998's Banjo-Kazooie as an example of a challenge that no modern gamer can complete. This kind 
 of humor is priceless. 
  
  The visuals are outstanding. I really can't describe them in any way that would do them justice. 
 Everything looks like it was sowed together and looks very artificial. It oozes with color and 
 detail around every corner. These details do make you wish that this was your old platfomer back 
 for round three, but the game's banter has hinted at part four being a traditional platformer, 
 anyway. The game isn't selling too well, so I hope Rare might smarten up and put some effort into 
 giving us what we want this time around. Either way, this game is amazing, but it does make you 
 wish that these high definition graphics and crazy characters were put into a real Banjo game.
 
  
  The real nostalgia comes from the music. You'll hear remixes of almost every track you've heard 
 in a Banjo game. Cloud Cuckooland, Click Clock Wood, Freezeezy Peak, they're all here. Rare left 
 out a few like Witchyworld and Terrydactyland, but I don't those levels were as revered as the 
 aforementioned ones anyway. The character grunts aren't quite as pleasing as you'd expect, and 
 Rare didn't put nearly as much effort into them as they did back in the N64 days.
  
  Overall, this game is a satisfying one. Sure, the land vehicles can be a little off in the control 
 department and a few missions can frustrate, but the pros just blow the cons out of the water to 
 the point where they only serve to prove how good this game really is. It may not be the Banjo 
 you remember, but bits and pieces of nostalgia pop in here and there and it's a nice touch to what 
 would otherwise be considered an entirely new Intellectual Property. I don't care who you are, 
 but you should take Nuts n Bolts for a spin - you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegike
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Banjo and Kazooie are back and with the never dieing Grunty the witch. the game is big on driving 
 vehicles around and collecting puzzle pieces. the crates all over the main area with new vehicles 
 parts is hard but exiting to find them and make custom vehicles. making your own vehicles with 
 the stuff you find was my favorite part. other then that every thing is free roaming based but 
 getting the puzzle pieces are all time trials with mostly the vehicles you make or from the vehicle 
 blueprints you get or buy. missions for the peaces are hard because you have to read the text on 
 the bottom of the screen and its small text. some missions are easy to find out but others are 
 hard because you don't know what to do for them. i give this game a thumbs up even with all the 
 flaws because of the vehicle customization. cars, planes, bouts and, bikes. how doesn't like that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Game_King
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Banjo Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts is the latest entry in the Banjo Kazooie series, a series that dates 
 back to the N64. Although it started as a platformer in the vein of Super Mario 64, the latest 
 entry is more of a kart building game than a 3D platformer. And while the new gameplay mechanics 
 do not make Nuts & Bolts any less a Banjo Kazooie game, they certainly do not make it a good one.
 
  
  In the eight years since their last adventure, the bird and bear duo have become fat and lazy. 
 Grunty's skull emerges from nearby rubble, her rhyme schemes returning with her after missing Banjo 
 Tooie. She tries to fight her former rivals, but the new character, the Lord of Games (L. O. G. for 
 short) , intervenes, and demands that they settle their differences the way they did in previous 
 games: by collecting various tokens. However, L. O. G soon declares that the concept of collecting 
 items is a bad concept, and decides that they should settle their problems by collecting items 
 in his world, only with karts.
  
  Massive irony aside, the game pulls off kart building rather well. It does take a bit of time to 
 adjust to the kart building system, but once you do, you will find it to be extremely intuitive, 
 easy to use, and really fun to screw around with. Any vehicle you can imagine can be created, so 
 long as it has an engine, fuel, wheels of some sort, and a driver's seat. Rare included several 
 pre-made blueprints for beginners, but once you learn the ins and outs of vehicle building, you 
 will find that anything you can build is just as efficient and much more fun to drive, something 
 you find out in the Test Track. Rare included the Test Track to (obviously) test vehicles, spot 
 out their flaws, and fix them before actually putting the vehicle to use. In theory.
  
  In practice, however, the system does not work like that. A vehicle that may work on the Test Track 
 will sputter and fizzle under the pressure of a mission. No matter how many modifications and tweaks 
 are made, vehicles will still steer incredibly awkwardly. In addition, missions have only two approaches 
 to them: the right way and the wrong way, few missions ever breaking the mold. Did not the fun 
 from Banjo Kazooie games come from the variety in missions? In Banjo Tooie alone, there were racing 
 missions, arcade-game-style missions, FPS missions, traditional platforming missions, and many 
 others. In Nuts & Bolts, however, there are primarily two types of missions: kart racing and some 
 variant on "get something/yourself from point A to B". On many counts, the latest Banjo Kazooie 
 game comes off as a series of unfulfilled promises. Rare promised multiple approaches to missions 
 that would yield different results for different methods; the result was that you get three prizes 
 based on time limit: a TT Trophy, a Jiggy, and a bunch of notes. We were told that the police force 
 patrolling the GTA-esque Showdown Town would actually do something; what we got was law enforcement 
 that is not only easily thwarted, but also hard to agitate. In addition, while Rare never guaranteed 
 anything to do with buying and collecting supplies, this aspect fails as well. There is nothing 
 wrong with using notes as currency (the role of notes has changed so much from game to game that 
 it is hard to question why this particular game did so this time) , but there is something wrong 
 with how they are used. Notes are too easily acquired, since completing any mission will yield 
 notes, and everything is too cheap, meaning that the supplies of every merchant in Showdown Town 
 will be exhausted very often. 
  
  While most of this may sound like a betrayal of the Banjo Kazooie spirit, that statement is only 
 partially true. Ignoring the fact that the game is called Banjo Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts, not Banjo 
 Threeie (as Grunty promised at the end of Banjo Tooie) , the latest entry in the Banjo Kazooie series 
 is a Banjo Kazooie game, if a watered down one) . Many of your beloved characters, like Humba Wumba 
 and Mumbo, have returned, some getting drastic makeovers. Jolly Dodger is now dressed and behaves 
 like a shady pimp (there's no other way of putting it, honestly) , and Grunty is now a robotagain. 
 It seems that even Rare forgot about Banjo Kazooie: Grunty's Revenge, the low profile 2D entry 
 on the GBA. New characters are introduced, like Pikelet, a corrupt pig/chief of police, Trophy 
 Thomas, a tiger with a palpable desire to win every challenge, and Piddles, Grunty's useless new 
 sidekick. But why these new characters are needed, even when there is a numerous amount of popular 
 NPCs from previous games, is not really answered. For example, why is Mr. Fit included? He only 
 appeared for one level in one game. Why not Canary Mary, Tiptup, Tooty, Gobi or even Conker (Nabnut 
 was close enough) ? In addition, Kazooie might as well have not been in the game, since her only 
 roles are rarely, if ever, used outside of tutorials. Other than the character repertoire, the 
 adherence to Banjo Kazooie hallmarks is mixed; there is a quiz at the end of the game, but the 
 levels seem to parody 80s sitcoms for no good reason.
  
  However, one aspect that has actually been noticeably improved is the graphics. While some fans 
 protested the new character designs (Banjo's square jaw, Kazooie's more feminine appearance, etc.) , 
 they have made the game much more cartoony, comical, and, in short, better. Animations have become 
 more complex and exaggerated since the days of the N64, characters expressing their emotions through 
 embellished facial contortions and cartoony mannerisms (IE flexing their muscles in a statement 
 of superiority) . Lighting has also received a major improvement, especially when compared against 
 other Xbox 360 games. Nuts & Bolts actually feels like a next gen Xbox 360 game, unlike most games, 
 which feel a lot like shiny Xbox games. Yet these great graphics do come at a cost. First, there 
 is a lot of slowdown and erratic frame rate spikes. The high amount of pieces in any given vehicle 
 at any given time means that there is always a high polygon and texture count, meaning many load 
 times. Load screens will pop up constantly, and the fact that individually rendered Jiggies fly 
 to the screen in order to form it somewhat complicates the problems.
  
  Despite these flaws, Banjo Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts is a great deal, even coming with a nice poster 
 depicting generic blueprints on one side and the character roster on the other. Taken on its own, 
 the intuitive and just plain fun kart-building mechanics, vibrant graphics, and superb music make 
 it a game worthy of purchase. Nevertheless, the stale mission variety, volatile frame rate, and 
 other minor flaws (collectible items actually being tangible objects, short length, etc.) also 
 make it a game that you should take caution in buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drragonninja9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for people who think the game is too dead, or people who been wating for a new 
 Conker game.
  
  My intentions of the game would be taking a hybrid-platformer and transforming it into a Vechicle-Based 
 game. Rare had a huge sucuess with the first two games but my opinion the game is one of these 
 games that get overlooked. Plus its also one of those games that REALLY NEEDED A MAKEOVER. Teh 
 camera is total rubbish. (Limely undertone.......) HEH HEH Limely.
  
  Super Special Awesome SPOILER ALERT!
  (For those who do not want to here the REAL Stop n' Swoop 
 Truth must Immediatelly stop reading. If you want to know what XBLA Banjo-Kazooie game can help 
 you get Super Special Awesome Parts just keep reading.)
  
  Finishing Banjo-Kazooie Can help you get new parts in Nuts and Bolts. And the key to them is Stop 
 n' Swoop. There are places in the game (like on the top on Boggy's gym) have some pecuilar things 
 drawn on them. Such as the Six-Colored Eggs and the Ice key. Finishing XBLA Banjo-Kazooie and going 
 back and finding the Stop n' Swoop Items can unlock new parts (There are only Seven secret parts 
 and the locations I shall not reveal. NEVER!)
  
  Note: I'm SOOOOOOOOOOO sorry for using Yu-Gi-Oh! The Abridged Series References okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  Well after 10 years since the original Banjo first appeared on the N64 and 8 years since its sequel 
 Banjo Tooie came out for the N64 as well, the bird and bear have been out of video games in what 
 seems like an eternity. They are finally back in a whole new Next gen adventure. If you don't remember 
 Banjo-Kazooie games where very similar to 3-D mario games, just replace coins with Music notes, 
 and Stars with Puzzle pieces or jiggies. You had power ups and a wide variety of different stages. 
 But they were very similar games. Since the N64 Mario has had Mario Galaxy which was one of the 
 best games of 2007. Banjo was back in 2008 and he took the platforming genre in a different direction.
 
  
  The older games focused on Kazooie moves, which would be like flying, shooting eggs, and the ability 
 to climb steep hills. Well this is all gone in Banjo-Kazooie Nuts and Bolts. Instead of the traditional 
 platforming and Kazooie moves, we are introduced to the game's biggest pull, User created content 
 and Vehicles. 
  
  So the story plays out like this. Banjo-Kazooie have been doing well.. nothing since Grunty was 
 defeated at the end of Banjo-Tooie. So our Heroes have well put on weight, and they are not in 
 shape to do anything other then eat pizza and play Xbox. So of course Grunty is not really dead 
 yet and we see that she has lost everything other then her skull.. so Banjo goes to see what is 
 going on. upon there meeting it looks like Banjo and Kazooie where going to duke it out, however 
 they are interrupted by a new character LOG or Lord of All Games, who is tired of the constant 
 fighting between the two.. he then has them complete in a little game, the winner of this will 
 keep spiral mountain while the other must spend an eternity in Log's Video game factory. While 
 that is a little lame, the writing is very funny and pokes fun at themselves and other games. Its 
 a very funny game story wise. I don't want to give anything away so play the game and you will 
 know what i mean :)
  
  So like i said Kazooie moves are gone, instead she is given a magical wrench that does a number 
 of different things. you can attack with it, you can pick up pretty much anything in the world, 
 and you can use it to build vehicles.
  
  So one of the biggest differences in this game is the vehicle customization. To collect jiggies 
 and other collectibles throughout the game you must complete different challenges that require 
 vehicles, although some i found you can do without any vehicles. So you can do almost anything 
 you want. you are given tons of different parts that you will collect as you progress through the 
 game. you have different engines, weapons, fuel tanks, and other do-hickies you can add to your 
 creation like sticky ball (which latches on to anything and pulls it with you) and many other things 
 like that. the coolest thing is that its very easy to use and build however you have to be smart 
 and be aware of physics of cars. so making one end filled with sinkers and heavy blocks, and other 
 end with nothing, will not be a smart choice. you are also not limited to any particular area, 
 you can make a land based vehicle, a air based vehicle, a water vehicle, or all three in a mega 
 car that can do all. The creation tools are only beaten by games like Spore and LBP, other wise 
 i would say this is the most robust creation tool in any game..
  
  So while making cool vehicles is one thing the main purpose is to use them to complete the wide 
 variety of challenges. They can be things like races, escort missions, battles, mini games, and 
 collecting things. the best thing about all of the (player-choice) missions is that there are multiple 
 ways to complete a mission. unlike some games where you only have one set way in doing something, 
 Depending on your vehicle will have you do the mission differently then someone with a different 
 one. 
  
  For example there is a mission in the where you need to put old Grabbed by the Ghoulies games in 
 the trash can. there was a number of ways i could do this. 1. I could build a car that has a cargo 
 carry and simply put all of them in the "trunk" and fly them up to the Trash can. 2. I could put 
 a spring and launch them to the can. 3 i could knock over the trash can with a large vehicle or 
 sticky ball and move the trash can to the games, do it reverse. This is just one example of changing 
 the game and it being different for each person. 
  
  so i bet your wondering where this game takes place. well you are introduced into a new Hub world 
 called Showdown Town, which is a major GIANT city where there are all kinds of places to explore 
 see. This is where all the Level doors are and where all the lovable characters from older games 
 are. plus a few new ones. Some of the characters you will meet are Mumbo Jumbo, who is in charge 
 of the vehicles, Humba Wumba, who operates a store which has blueprints and parts up for sale. 
 Klungo who operates his own arcade which includes a very fun mini game. King Jingaling who has 
 Jingo Bingo. Bottes who is the tour guide, Jolly Roger (or Dodger in this game) who has an underground 
 "Black Market" which he sells Jiggies at expensive prices. Also Boggy who owns a gym and trains 
 you (gets your abilities higher) other character you will see includes capt. Blubber, and Mr. Fit. 
 Along with the old recurring characters comes a few new ones. Along with LOG we have Piddles who 
 is the new sidekick of Grunty, TT Thomas who is a very competitive characters who will give you 
 TT trophies if you beat his high score. (having these will give you extra jiggies) Pikelet who 
 is the courrupt police chief of Showdown town. Just goes to show you that all the fan favorites 
 of older games make an appearance in Banjo N&B.
  
  So the game has a 6 levels not including Showdowntown. Each level has a number of different acts 
 that have new challenges. The first level is Nutty Acres, which is your basic bring colorful cheery 
 world where you have lots of grass, trees, water, and Volcanoes? its a very cute and perfect first 
 stage. Next is Logbox 720 which is LOG's take on making a video game console. being a ripoff of 
 the Xbox 360, this level shows you what goes on inside of video game console. Lots of cool mechanical 
 things inside. very creative if you ask me.. next is Banjo-Land which is a museum of all things 
 Banjo. Its pretty much bits and pieces of old Banjo Stages all rolled into one. Fan will def. recognize 
 things from the older games. The Jiggoseum is like a sports world where you compete in a bunch 
 of mini games dealing with sports. Terrarium of Terror is an over grown space level which has a 
 very eerie feel and fits on being one of the later stages of the game. And finally Spiral Mountain, 
 which needs no introduction. 
  
  Its kinda hard to describe Banjo-Kazooie Nuts and Bolts because its so different from any other 
 game i have ever played. the reason being that its impossible to put into a genre. This is a hybrid 
 of Platforming (mostly in Showdown Town) , Racing (vehicles) , Mission Based, Collect-a-thon, Sandbox, 
 and user generated content all rolled into one game. while it would seem to clash, it really does 
 a great job in mixing all those parts into an enjoyable experience. It all flows well and if you 
 give it a chance the game is amazing. 
  
  While there are a lot going for Banjo, the game is not perfect.. The vehicles especially the land 
 based ones are "touchy" making a smooth feeling car is harder then you think. There is a multiplayer 
 feature in Banjo, and while its fun for a little bit, the single player just is so much better 
 then any multiplayer part. it could have been better, but what it does is well.. decent. Another 
 thing is this game is not for everyone. The game will catch on to people with large imaginations 
 and love of building. while people expecting a next gen Banjo-remake will find out that this game 
 is vastly different for the better. 
  
  Overall when you look at Banjo you see a BIG chance and Rare had the guts to pull off something 
 amazing. While people will turn there heads at the thought of this game Not being an FPS bloody 
 game, def. give this game a chance this is definitely one of the best platforming, and well best 
 Family games of 2008. Any 360 owner who wants a new experience and a game like no other should 
 definitely check out Banjo-Kazooie Nuts and Bolts
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay- The game is split up between collecting jiggies, parts, and music notes, building, and 
 completing the various missions to earn Jiggies to eventually beat the game. All of these parts 
 are extremely enjoyable for the mostpart
  Graphics: One the best uses of Color on the Xbox 360. The characters, levels and world have a great 
 personality. And for the last time, Banjo is not Square! One of the better looking games of the 
 year
  Sound: great Original Tracks and mixes of older ones.. I love the music in the game but a few more 
 tracks would have been great. Also Car sound effects have a cartoony sounds which fits the mood 
 of the game
  Value: for 40 bucks these days is great. you get a game well worth 60 bucks, for a cheap price. 
 add in over 100 jiggies to collect, tons of TT trophies, and Online play extends the life of this 
 game a lot. Not to mention the limitless replay value of creating different vehicles and sharing 
 them online
  Overall: one of the most enjoyable games of the year.. along with a few other Banjo-Kazooie is 
 well worth playing no matter of age.. you should give this a try. Go and pick up this Gem, you 
 will not look back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zayde687
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Full review at: http://community. livejournal. com/the_vg_review/1064. html
  
  A long time ago in a valley between sarcasm and childhood, there lived a bear and a bird. They 
 lived in a small blue house with blue windows in a little blue world and everything was blue while 
 they sang "Ba do de ba do die". Well, actually everything wasn't blue and they didn't sing. There 
 was however, a blue backpack. The point is that it was a long time ago, and like anything that 
 was good a long time ago, a lot of people have a strange feeling we call nostalgia towards it. 
 And when you start toying with that emotion, a lot of people resent you for it, as Rare Ltd. has 
 probably learned from making the third proper installment in the Banjo-Kazooie series.
  
  I'm not sure how many people were ready to storm the offices of Rare at that announcement but I'll 
 bet it was a significant amount of the Banjo-Kazooie fanbase. I myself was extremely skeptical 
 at how the game was going to turn out when I first heard that they were going to take the gameplay 
 in an entirely different direction. So the question is, was the sacrifice worth it? Personally, 
 I think it was. Is it the Banjo-Kazooie of old? No, but is that what you really want? A rehash 
 of an old game? People have been happy to blast Nintendo for remaking the same games over and over 
 again with new wallpaper, but when a developer decides to take things in a new direction, the fans 
 are suddenly up in arms about destroying what made a series great. Bi-polar much, ya? Sadly, that's 
 just one of those facts of life and I've tried to move past it. Obviously I haven't quite made 
 it there if I'm talking about it here.
  
  But honestly I don't see how changing the gameplay of Banjo-Kazooie destroyed Nuts & Bolts. Actually, 
 if you look back, Banjo-Kazooie was a pretty obvious Mario 64 clone. Instead of stars, you collect 
 jigsaw pieces, instead of coins, musical notes. There are really big paintings of a bunch of worlds 
 that you visit and the object of the game is to get to the top of some tower and defeat the evil 
 antagonist. What really saved Banjo-Kazooie from the jaws of mediocrity and federal copywrite laws 
 was its style and character. It was great because it was witty, sarcastic, funny, and it appealed 
 to everyone. It was charming in a way that few other games dare to attempt.
  
  And you know what? Never has that character and charm of Banjo-Kazooie be executed better than 
 in Nuts & Bolts. From the opening cutscene to the ending, everything that made Banjo-Kazooie enjoyable 
 is there and as fresh as ever. All that's changed is how you obtain jiggys.
  
  Nuts & Bolts might not be "old-school" Banjo-Kazooie gameplay, but it's damn good fun. Actually, 
 I'd have to say it's probably the most pure fun I've had in a game in a very long time. And at 
 twenty dollars off a standard new game price, I think it's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This was a game my wife picked out and I got it for her since she doesn't really get too many games, 
 the XBOX is mainly played by me and I thought she should have this one.
  
  She was a fan of the game back on N64, but this is much different and a lot of fun i might add! 
 The game has huge worlds with lots to do and many things to offer. I found the controls of the 
 cars to be challengine at first, but the whole customizing thing is what kept the game going and 
 going!
  
  I would recommend this to fans of Banjo Kazooie, it certainly is a leap for the series. Its a good 
 kids game with some humor and will also work well for adults. If you can rent this game for a week 
 you'll enjoy it, otherwise $60 is a lot of cash so if you can get it for around $40 or less then 
 scoop it up! I dont believe in paying $60 for a game so I have a modded system and make the games 
 myself. So if you have to pay, try to rent this or get it at the $40 and under section. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanjo22
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I've noticed a surprising ammount of positive reviews for Nuts and Bolts, and I believe it's because 
 the general public had been deprived of a mainstream Banjo game for 8 years and everyone is glad 
 just to have Banjo slapped on the cover. I, however; eagerly anticipated the release Banjo-Kazooie 
 3 from the final cutscene of Banjo-Tooie in 2000 to release. With that being said, I was also one 
 of the people fiercely defending the game whenever someone didn't like the vehicles. I was misguided. 
 Rare had told us that it would have the exact same gameplay as its predecessors, simply with vehicles 
 replacing the moves, and I believed it. 
  
  When in Banjo-Kazooie did you walk up to a character WoW-style, with a massive glowing arrow pointing 
 at their head, have them tell you to do a race and be rewarded with a jiggy, afterwords acting 
 like it never happened? No, you walked up to someone, talked to them for a bit, and did an entertaining 
 challenge for a jiggy that they'd found, and you got that good feeling inside like you did something 
 that mattered. As well, you didn't just do challenges, the platforming aspect made up a significantly 
 large portion of the game. You had to actually use your depth perception to climb ledges and collect 
 scattered jiggies. There were areas of the level that could be accessed by exploration, not noticing 
 them on the other side of the level. Nuts and Bolts' levels consist of large boxes with lifeless, 
 inanimate things scattered within. If I wanted to play World of Warcraft, I'd play World of Warcraft, 
 driving around staring at your map looking to do repetitive challenges for rewards belongs in WoW. 
 In a Banjo game, it does not.
  
  I can go on and on about why the game is too different for comfort, but the bottom line is that 
 Rare went too far with the change, it feels like a completely different game with Banjo characters 
 and items poorly pasted on, like someone using MS Paint to clear up blemishes on an ugly chick. 
 Rare is not Obama. Their argument is "We've left Banjo idle for 8 years, so we wanted to make something 
 new that new players could enjoy as well as old players". What, is the gaming perfection of the 
 Banjo platformers not entertaining enough? Do Banjo-Kazooie: Grunty's Revenge [2003] and Banjo-Pilot 
 [2005] not count as worthy additions to the series? 
  
  I'd like to quote Yahtzee of Zero Punctuation in saying "To me it all smacks of a problem in the 
 media and that rather than focusing on pleasing a paticular audience designers try to to please 
 as many people as possible and just end up giving a blankly mediocre experience for all. So what 
 exactly am I saying? Well, on't fix what isn't broken I guess, taking a format that's proved a 
 massive success and gluing on extra bits rarely causes the coveted lightning to strike twice". 
 He's correct. Rare tried to open Banjo to the casual market, and in doing so they've alienated 
 a good portion of their fanbase. Those who enjoyed playing Banjo-Kazooie for the fun of it, collecting 
 things, farting eggs from Kazooie's rectum, fighting Grunty, the general feel of it all. Who decided 
 old platforming can't be enjoyed by new gamers? I can have a blast playing Super Mario bros. and 
 I wasn't even alive when it was released.
  
  Oh, and yeah, you don't fight Grunty properly either, but in order to prevent spoiling the game 
 I'm simply going to say that if you weren't fond of the vehicular Grunty challenges, don't get 
 yourself excited for the ending. Grunty serves as the one and only boss for each level (one level 
 she appears twice) and it completely sucks the fun out of fighting her. Each battle consists of 
 you awkwardly bumping into her and trying to destroy her vehicle like a game of bumper cars with 
 a group of drunk jocks. Remember finally getting to Grunty at the end of Kazooie, Tooie and even 
 Grunty's Revenge? Any thrill they may have contained is gone, and it replaces the boss battles 
 as an added negative.
  
  The characters are lacking, with a whopping five new additions to the cast. Yes, this includes 
 characters you meet within worlds (there are none, by the way) . Trophy Thomas, Piddles, Pikelet, 
 LoG and uh... that one forgettable one. I can't even remember. Trophy Thomas is a cliche arrogant 
 ass, Piddles is a quiet and unexplored character, Pikelet is in the same boat as Piddles, and LoG 
 is probably the worst character in a video game. Ever. He's an omnipotent, all knowing, all powerful, 
 arrogant character capable of clearing any writers block the writers of the god awful pot may've 
 had like nothing. He constantly breaks the fourth wall, which is understandable in a Banjo game, 
 but he completely ruins it. It's nice to break it every now and then, but Nuts and Bolts points 
 out that it is infact a video game so much it's hard to find yourself immersed in it because you're 
 constantly reminded you're playing a game.
  
  On the up-side the Music is fantastizzlick and the Graphics are bright and colourful, which is 
 refreshing. 
  
  Back to the down side. I've gotten over the complete character model redesign, but it adds to the 
 fact that this game is simply uncomfortable to play. Humba is essentially a different character, 
 an 11 year old freckled Kameo. I've been writing this for a while, the bottom line is this game 
 shouldn't have been a Banjo game. The vehicle control sucks, it's short, the challenges are repetitive, 
 it's more of a spinoff, it's inconsistent with the previous games, and each one of the points I've 
 just mentioned could've been explained in an entire paragraph. But there's no need, really. I urge 
 anyone reading this to take a minute to actually compare Nuts and Bolts to Kazooie and Tooie and 
 realize it has nothing to do with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandajerk29
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  When the 360 first came out there was a rummer that rare was going to make a new banjo game. when 
 i first heard this i knew i had to get an 360 just for it. then the day came when i saw the first 
 video of nut&bolts and i'll tell you the truth i was angry at it. I ended up getting for Christmas 
 because even if it was a big pile crap, i got it for 40 bucks. as son as i but it on my 360, i 
 knew that rare did not Screw me over. Building cars, boats, even planes are so much fun and easy. 
 all the missions are fun and different with endless ways of how you can build stuff to effect the 
 missions and how well they turn out. I Own all there systems and have little big planet, and can 
 say that i would pick banjo over it any day (not saying little big planet is bad but banjo is simpler 
 to create stuff) there only some thing i would like to disagree on about banjo nuts and bolts and 
 that is there is no reason for kazooie to be in the game. in the old ones you needed kazooie to 
 save your ass, in this one she might ass well been kept fat. i like the idea of building items to 
 pass the missions, but also feel that next time when making a banjo game, keep the platforming. 
 then make up a new character for this idea, because it was fun for a game, but disappointing for 
 a banjo fan like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PATTAN111111111
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  banjo kazooie N&B is a fun game to play. graphics are amazing, gameplay is fun at times, and vechicle 
 building is awsome. the only thing thats bad about this game is that missions are always one of 
 the three choises: racing, fetching, and driving around. also the vechicle controls are a bit touchy. 
 But the game is fun to paly and alot of fun. you definatley get your moneys worht out of this game. All 
 in all, banjo kazooie N&B is a fun and innovative game for all to enjoy! sdhfdgj hjk gfdjkg kjfdg 
 kfj gjkhfdgh dfkjghk dfg fd kjsdfjkh fsdkfj sdfjksdkhf skjdf hsdkjfh sdf dshfksdfhsdkjf hsdkjhfs 
 dhfjkhds hjfjskdfh sdjkhf sd jkfhskdf hsdkjf jksd fhjksdkjhf fjkdhhjk f hk fgbhfg hjfdhsdf hjakiu 
 uidf uasduifau ifdasfis uiihu sfuhf uisduihfuih sdf uhisiudfuihsd sduihu isdf us sfd hfidsuf ihfhdfhhkj 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  Banjo Kazooie Nuts & Bolts is the latest game from old geniuses rare and it finally expels the 
 gloom of having the name of 'Grabbed by the Ghoulies' in your companies history. (:
  
  Graphics - 9.5/10
  
  These are sweeeeeeeet. An explosive amount of colour and general graphical 
 love has been squeezed into this game. The worlds are mind-blowingly gorgeous, with colour, detail 
 and prettiness exploding around you. Kinda reminiscent of Kingdom Hearts. (: The character models 
 are beautiful and lovingly designed, especially dear old Banjo, whose arse you'll be staring at 
 alot. oh dear. All in all, an amazingly gorgeous game.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  
  Hmmm. It strays quite far from the old Banjo formula, and I congratulate it for that. It needed 
 to move on. The new vehicles are very fun and easy to use and the brilliant vehicle maker is alot 
 of fun and you can make anything you want, as long as you have the bits for it. The multiplayer 
 is fun if a little unbalanced, as you can take your own creations into it, and some peoples will 
 no doubt be more advanced and generally better than yours. The basic platforming is good old fun, 
 if a bit collecting heavy. A fun, inventive concept that works very well indeed.
  
  Lifespan - 9/10
  
  This game is very long, with a huge multitude of challenges and fun to be 
 had. The multiplayer extends the life after and then it's just depends on you really. Replay, or 
 not replay...
  
  
  OVERALLL - 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the original Banjo-Kazooie and it's sequel back when it first came out nearly 
 a decade ago and it was the one of the best games I have ever played! After the second game came 
 out it kind'a just faded out of today's gaming world. I am a gamer that is into the action-adventure, 
 FPS especially, and even Horror games. Banjo-Kazooie was just one of very few of those kid-friendly 
 type of games that I enjoy playing! When I first heard that there was going to be another Banjo-Kazooie 
 game exclusively for the Xbox 360 I was excited to see how it will be! WOW!!!!!!!! It is amazing! 
 And totally brings me back in time! The graphics in this game is incredible (especially if you 
 have a nice big 1080p HDTV like me!) The gameplay is great! You can also build or modify vehicles. 
 The gameplay has certainly stuck true to what it was originally like a decade ago. The story line 
 is good. And yes it also has some humor to it to! The controls are excellent, I can't really think 
 of anything wrong with that. The sound to the game is also really great. I would most definitely 
 recommend this game to anyone! Even though I am into the intense violent and bloody type games 
 like GTA, Gears Of War, etc... Games that I don't obviously recommend to any kids (duh!!!!!!) But 
 this game I think any kid should play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:19 am PT
Review:  Banjo Kazooie, the brilliant witty platformer from the N64 has returned on the 360, and his performance 
 doesnt disappoint. Especially in LOG's view he thinks he's brilliant.
  
  After years of Pizza and text box conversation Banjo *removes spoilers* ends up in a place called 
 Showdown town, a rather confusing place inhabited by Pigs, Penguins and Rhino. Along with all the 
 previous Banjo characters, who have graciously come out of retirement to become grease monkeys 
 for Banjo to use to build vehicles.
  
  To be serious, the vehicle creater is amazing, really you can almost do anything, and as long as 
 it has wheels and engine and fuel, it'll move to some point, but to make it like a jet boat, you'll 
 have to put more effort in than slapping some wheels onto a tray.
  
  The Graphics are very good, but at sometimes it didnt feel smooth, a bit jolty, but nonetheless, 
 i am being quite picky.
  
  The sound still retains the now retro charm of its predessors, and strangely i wasnt incredibly 
 angered when the batteries died in my controller and i rummaged around my room looking for batteries 
 with the theme song playing loudly in the background, infact i found myself humming to it, something 
 i am not proud of.
  
  The missions are almost completely vehicle based. But you sometimes have to get out of your vehicle 
 to *spoil censorship* to advance forward, it can be tedious if yuou are in a plane and jump out 
 of the wrong time, when where you need to get is elevated and you plummet to your death, but that 
 shouldnt happen to often because you SHOULD get better.
  
  Overall, the game is very good. The bases are completely covered, but with every new venture in 
 a series, there's always room for improvement. Gruntilda's rhyming speech will normally give you 
 a giggle, and the constant making fun of kazooie is allways funny epecially when it comes from 
 mumbo dumbo.
  
  Pick this game up, and if you think you're to good for it, then you are missing out on a very, 
 very amusing and rewarding experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Originally the idea of a vehicle based Banjo Kazooie game immediatley made me think the franchise 
 was getting killed. But actually its one of the best games I've played this year. The story is 
 Banjo and Kazooie are stuck in another world with the "Lord of Games" who will return them to spiral 
 mountain once they find enough jiggies. While the story is fairly weak it doesn't matter much because, 
 hey its a Banjo Kazooie game. Creating vehicles is unusually addictive and actually pretty easy 
 to master. You use your vehicles or already created ones to go through different worlds and collect 
 jiggies. It doesn't have many platforming elements, so don't kid yourself, this shares little resemblence 
 to the N64 masterpieces, but it is still an insanley fun game that is a breath of fresh air compared 
 to all the M rated games on the 360. The humor is still there and so are the characters, but now 
 its much more of a GTA-style open world (without the killing of course) . The game is great and 
 fun for all ages and introduces a revolutionary vehicle building system. Even if you feel Nuts 
 and Bolts could have been made without the BK universe, its still a game I would gladly pick up.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Story: 7/10
  Fun Factor: 9/10
  Gameplay: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  fun game and a instant classic right when you first play the game you can immedietly tell its going 
 to be great the graphics and visuels are amazing and very inviting and seeing banjo and kazooie 
 on the 360 with there new look is awsome and even with this new game its still the same old good 
 banjo kazooie formula everyone like but in this game they throw in creativity as opposed to just 
 platforming but dont worry the game still has quite a bit of platforming but the games main focus 
 is creating unique vheicles to complete levels and to collect jiggies so you can win the deed to 
 spiral mountain the controls can be a bit on the sensitive side but players can get past that especially 
 if they master the innovative creator garage mode you get alot for only $40 and getting such a 
 good game for the reduced price is great since alot of games are hitting 60 to 70 dollers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armandodajer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  First : Sorry for my english , is not very well .....
  
  This game is good , it's funny and it have a lot of different stuff that makes you laugh ... But 
 i get tired of the same really quickly , Cars , cars and cars.... It's always the same , sometimes 
 i would like to jump off the car and have a combat with a big monster or something , shooting some 
 eggs and using old-school move, explore all the maps with banjo and kazooie only , jumping and 
 jumping everywhere to see what can i find and what can i do..... Rare did an amazing game , but 
 for me , it will be a lot better if it was just a sequel of Tooie , like the same gameplay with 
 new features......
  
  I played Bajo-Kazooie and Banjo-Tooie and they were both INCREDIBLE, 
  2 of my top 10 favorites 
 of all time , and i have played a lot of games....
  
  
  (Now that banjo is on 360 , im asking - Will sometime Donkey Kong be in the 360 ??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: padfoot399
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this is NOT a typical Banjo-Kazooie platformer. This game is very 
 vehicle based; it doesn't focus too much on platforming. So, now that thats out of the way, i'll 
 get into the review. Basically, it has been 8 years since Banjo- Tooie and Grunty and Banjo have 
 to compete for the deed to Spiral Mountain. But the Lord of Games or LOG has taken all of Kazooie's 
 moves that she has learned in the previous games, so Banjo and Kazooie have to use vehicles to 
 win challenges. The story is a bit weak and uncreative, but it works. The hub world, Showdown Town 
 is amazing. It is absolutely humongous and filled with notes and vehicle parts to collect. The 
 graphics are stunning: they are bright and colorful and really make the worlds pop. I have to mention 
 that the soundtrack is great. It mixes up old tunes from the prevous games with new sounds. For 
 example the Nutty Acres theme has some of the Tresure Trove Cove theme in it. The other worlds 
 are fun and creative. I personally love Banjoland and Nutty Acres. The Vehicle creation tool is 
 very well made and easy to use. Old Banjo fans will love seeing old characters and references from 
 the other games. 
  
  Now on to the bad. While the challenges are fun, they can get a little repetitive. I really miss 
 some of Kazooie's old moves like the back flip. It would have been useful if they included at least 
 some of her moves so the game wasn't so vehicle based. I also think they should have added more 
 platforming elements into the game for the old fans. 
  
  While this game is great and very well made, i can't help but wonder what could have been if Rare 
 had decided to make a more traditional platformer. We could have had massive worlds with new characters, 
 amazing graphics, new moves, and a more direct sequel that could have been beyond a Banjo-Kazooie 
 fan's dream. And while Nuts and Bolts does have some of this, it lacks the platforming element 
 that old Banjo fans loved. I hope Rare realizes this and makes another Banjo game that sticks more 
 to its roots.
  
  Overall, the game is great and I recomend it to any Banjo fan. While you may not be compleatly 
 satisfied, you will still have a great time playing this game.
  
  Overall:
  Graphics- 9
  Sound- 10 
  Gameplay- 7.5
  
  Rating- 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Kikode_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Banjo Kazooie "3" since the release of the 2 titles on N64 many years ago. 
 My interest in Bear and Bird were peaked about a year ago when I saw the highly stylized and polished 
 trailer for the upcoming game. Were my expectations met with this game as a banjo fan?
  
  First lets take a look at my history with the franchise. Rare had something special with the expert 
 controls of Banjo and Kazooie.
  I remember playing the game and thinking wow this is like twice the moves in Mario 64 and they 
 are so easy to pull off. Then I began learning Mumbo transformation and I literally laughed out 
 loud as some of the goofy transformations. The humor in the game was well developed and you never 
 knew what to expect.
  
  Fast Forward time until 3 months ago when I discovered the game was entirely vehicle based and 
 Kazooie had lost her moves. Shattered expectations doesn't even begin to describe the feeling. 
 My blood began to boil when I watched as a lead member from the banjo team literally stated that 
 he thought the original mechanics of the first game were outdated and thats why they did away with 
 the Collection aspects and platforming. 
  
  Enter the new Banjo and Kazooie. Characters that look more like there Viva Pinata counter parts 
 then there former selves. Kazooie has large eyelashes and Banjo has a square face and body. Needless 
 to say at this point I could see what rare was doing and wanted no part in it. 
  
  It has been a month now and I have obtained all the achievement points and reached 100% completion. 
 What are my final thoughts on the game? I still choose to rate this a perfect and here is my main 
 reason; the game is simply amazing considering the creativity and freedom you have in vehicle creation. 
 Never has a game accomplished this level of customization before. Some reviews will knock it because 
 it strays too far from the original and some will complain about the driving or multi-player mechanics. 
 As much as I want to hate it, I found enough of the classic Banjo humor and varied missions to 
 keep me entertained through out the entire game. Who would I recommend this game to then? I recommend 
 this to anyone who loves the freedom to build and experiment. If you are a person who blazes through 
 games looking for story you will not be satisfied. This game takes patience and free spirit to 
 truly reap the rewards of a satisfying vehicle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex535
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I myself love this game, the vehicle creation is fantastic, you can do pretty much anything with 
 it. You can build flying cars, jet planes with detachable wings, submarines, boats, you name it.
 
  
  I love the way you build contraptions to complete tasks, but the fun truly begins when you design 
 an even BETTER way to complete that task! This is how it works, you start your game in a gaming 
 "hub" called showdown town. In this town you will find Mumbo's motors (where you can build vehicles 
 with parts you collected) Mumba's store (where you can buy blue-prints and parts to create vehicles 
 with) notes to buy parts and blue-prints with, and various crates scattered around town. These 
 crates contain several parts in each and there are 75 in total. Bringing one of these crates back 
 to Mumbo's motors will unlock the crate, allowing you to use the parts contained. While obtaining 
 these parts, you will be able to use them in your various contraptions.
  
  The reason you build these contraptions is to complete the various tasks spread around the various 
 worlds that break off from showdown town. The main objective in the game is to collect jiggies 
 in order to go to the next world, and eventually save your beloved home, spiral mountain from the 
 dastardly witch Gruntilda (now a mere head in a jar thanks to previous games) .
  
  Every time you beat a challenge the time or way that you beat it will result in 3 types of rewards. 
 When you complete a challenge to the lowest you can you will receive a prize of notes, do a good 
 enough job and you will win a jiggy, and doing a superb job gives you a T. T. trophy. When you collect 
 4 T. T. trophies, you can go back to a cheetah named T. T. (go figure) and he will give you an extra 
 jiggy. When you collect enough jiggies, you will unlock more worlds and eventually boss battles 
 with Gruntilda.
  
  Despite the many, many great and wonderful game play elements, It has dropped everything that made 
 the original games fun to begin with, the platforming. It was oodles of fun to jump around using 
 Kazooie's powers to collect jiggies, but as they said in the game... "How are we supposed to beat 
 Gruntilda if you took my powers away?" "Simple, you'll use this little bird here..." "A wrench? 
 What can we possibly do with this?"
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Graphics: 8
  Game play: 9.5
  level design: 8.5
  characters: 9
  Overall: 9
  
  Overall A great game, be sure to pick this 
 up when you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisThaBest
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Although this latest Banjo Kazooie game isn't the same type of game as the last two Banjo games, 
 the game is still alot of fun. It takes a little time to get used to completing objectives by building 
 the right car for the mission but once you master this, you will enjoy this great game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game consists of usual Banjo Kazooie stuff, collecting jiggies to open up new 
 worlds, collecting musical notes ect. Most of the characters from past games make a return here 
 and are all very well done. The big twist in this game is that you no longer run around game worlds 
 with your usual action moves. In this game you have to build cars with parts you find around showdown 
 town (the main hub world) . Building cars isn't as tedious as one might think, in fact building 
 the cars is rather easy. There are several blue prints that you can use to load up a car. You can 
 then add or remove parts as you wish. 
  
  Where the game really shines is with it's variety of missions. You would think that because you 
 are building cars that most of the missions would be races but this is not the case. Rare has gone 
 out of the way of thinking up crazy ways for you to earn your jiggies. Now because these missions 
 are so creative you will have to be just as creative while creating your vehicles.
  
  Graphics
  
  Rare has really done a good job of bringing Banjo to next gen. The graphics in 
 this game a great. The game is meant to be cartoony so there is only so much they can do but everything 
 looks wonderful. Each game world is well designed and full of color. This game is definetly one 
 of the more prettier games out there.
  
  Storyline
  
  Unfortunetly there really isn't much of a storyline involved in this game. You gotta collect jiggies 
 to defeat Gruntilda. That is about it. The lack of plot doesn't really hurt the game because of 
 how much humour there is in the game. The game makes fun of video games in general and it does 
 a good job of making fun of itself at the same time. 
  
  Controls
  
  The controls of the game are very simple. The right trigger is for acceleration and the left trigger 
 is for deceleration. The x y b a buttons control your vehicles functions. While the basic controls 
 work well I did have some problems with the way vehicles control at first. It takes some time to 
 get used to. You also have to be careful with the way you build a vehicule because if it is built 
 poorly it will control poorly.
  
  Conclusion
  
  I believe Banjo Kazooie Nuts and Bolts is a must own for any Banjo fan. Even people who have never 
 played a Banjo game should play this one. You may be put off by the fact that it is not a platformer 
 like the old games but do not let that bother you. Deep down this game is still a Banjo game and 
 it is loads of fun. There are hours of gameplay in this game and with the price being so low everyone 
 should jump in and play it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I was a little hesitant when it came to purchasing this game. I loved Banjo-Kazooie and Banjo-Tooie. 
 And when I heard about this game, i got very excited. Then I heard about the use of vehicles in 
 the game. I was a little nervous about how this game would turn out, but it really amazed me. 
 
  
  This game plays just like its predecessors on the N64. There are six worlds, where you must obtain 
 all the jiggies, find all the jinjos and collect all the music notes. But instead of walking around 
 with Banjo, or flying with Kazooie, you use vehicles. The six worlds are enormous and the use of 
 vehicles is almost mandatory. There is so much to explore, I was very surprised and liked that 
 i could create whatever type pf vehicle I wanted to explore these amazing worlds. These worlds 
 are amazing, mainly because of how they are put together. There are so many sub-sections in these 
 worlds. Its fun to explore and find these "secret" places. Also the graphics are quite stunning, 
 especially if you have an HDTV. The music, is recycled from the past two games, but I loved it. 
 It was all very nostalgic. It brought me back to my younger years, and how much time I put into 
 the original Banjo-Kazooie. This game also has a lot of worth to it. Its only $40, and i spent 
 almost 50 hours getting everything in the game. There are over 100 challenges overall. The jiggy 
 challenges are mainly fun, but some of them are very difficult and take numerous tries. Instead 
 of just finding the jinjos, you must fund them, and then complete a challenge they have for you. 
 The challenges are fairly similar, it varies from a traditional race, finding a missing item, or 
 even fighting a boss. The notes are easier to find than in the other older games, but they can 
 still be a little frustrating to get every single one. 
  
  There are a few things that turned me off though. Personally, i would've preferred to have a game 
 similar to Banjo-Kazooie, or Banjo-Tooie. I didn't mind collecting the numerous things. I thought 
 it was really fun. This game still had plenty to collect, but it wasnt the same as the older games. 
 The whole vehicle thing was ok, but sometimes it got annoying to have to create a new vehicle for 
 several different challenges. Speaking of the challenges, a lot of them were very frustrating. 
 Especially the ones toward the end of the game. They would take a long time to beat. And trying 
 to create the perfect vehicle for the challenge was frustrating. I didn't have this problem, but 
 I dont think its fair that Rare made the text so small. I tried playing it on a standard tv, and 
 it was way to hard to read it. But once i put on the HDTV it was a lot better. 
  
  If you liked any of the previous banjo games, you should at least rent it. It still has the classic 
 charm the older games had (it still has the humor too!) The vehicles might turn some people off, 
 but I feel like it was necessary in this huge game. If you play it for awhile you will get use 
 to the vehicles. Thank you Rare for bringing back the Banjo series in a new and exciting way. Now 
 lets hope they make another sometime in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeflonDon50
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay, when I first saw this game I knew it wasn't going to be anything like the classic Banjo-Kazooie 
 which was definately ahead of its time. I thought the whole vehicle making thing was cool at first, 
 it's fun to make your own personalized vehicle and to find different creative ways to do missions. 
 However, I noticed alot of half-baked ideas had made their way into this game and brung it down 
 (ie. the klungo arcade thing, the level design, etc.) mostly alot of unnecessary content that slows 
 the game down and run poorly, but I personally chose to look past this partly because of the nostalgia 
 and being reminded of the classic banjo games. I just wish it had stuck to its adventure roots 
 more because that's where games like this shine, it doesn't belong with the mainstream online multi-player 
 crowd, that's just too risky because that's not what rare strives at. But still rare sold out to 
 microsoft and they had to revamp the whole project. In a way it was a good thing because obviously 
 the 360 and ps3 have the superior technological edge over nintendo's wii, but microsoft sucked 
 out all the charm and humor that made the series in an effort to spice it up so it appealed to 
 younger crowds and not the oldschool adventure game fans like myself...
  
  So as you can probably tell I have mixed feelings about this game because it doesn't even compare 
 to the classics but it's still a fun and decent game for newcomers and it holds together....... 
 barely, lol ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight right off the bat - Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts is NOT a platformer. 
 If you've been expecting an experience akin to the n64 originals, you can stop reading now. Nuts 
 & Bolts is a complete reimagining of the classic franchise, introducing new characters, new worlds, 
 and new game mechanics aplenty. Are the changes for the better? That answer will differ depending 
 on who you ask. But it's undeniable that Nuts & Bolts is a bold new direction for the franchise, 
 the likes of which gaming has never seen before.
  
  Nuts & Bolts picks off eight years after Banjo-Tooie. With Gruntilda defeated, Banjo and Kazooie 
 have been living the high life. The duo has grown fat and lazy, and so when the rhyming wench finally 
 returns, they're in no condition to fight their battle. Cue the Lord of Games (L. O. G.) . He's grown 
 tired of their constant fighting, and has devised one final test to determine ownership of Spiral 
 Mountain. However, instead of winding up in another platforming adventure, Banjo, Kazooie and Gruntilda 
 find themselves somewhere very different indeed -- a world of vehicles.
  
  That's right - Banjo-Kazooie is now almost entirely vehicle-based. Though you'll still be collecting 
 Notes and Jiggies to access new levels and worlds, you'll be doing most of it from behind a wheel. 
 The big hook here is every vehicle, whether it's a car, boat or plane, can be totally customized 
 to your liking. Thankfully, Nuts & Bolt's creation tools are very strong. It's not hard to get 
 into - after a quick tutorial you'll be able to create any car, boat or plane you can dream up. 
 The left stick moves pieces on the x- and y-axis, and the triggers control z-axis movement. The 
 rest is entirely up to you; your imagination is the only real limit to your creations. You've got 
 a seemingly infinite number of parts at your disposable, including weapons, propellers, floaters, 
 detach points, engines and fuels, seats... There are over 1,600 parts in all, so the same vehicle 
 will never be seen twice. The vehicle creation is a ton of fun, and was enough to keep me hooked 
 on the game for hours on end.
  
  The creator has one major flaw, though. Nuts & Bolts' physics are excellent, which doesn't bode 
 well for some of the more outlandish vehicles I've come up with. Vehicle handling is iffy; it changes 
 depending on how you distribute weight and where your engines are located. It really hurt when 
 I designed a vehicle that looked stellar, but thanks to one small design quirk, refused to run. 
 And it happened a lot. It's amazing that the engine can so realistically deal with all the possible 
 vehicle combinations, but it's also a shame. To really excel with the creator you have to be both 
 artistically inclined and have a good head for physics. If you can't get your head around it you 
 can buy ready-made vehicles, but that rather defeats the game's purpose.
  
  Once you've made yourself a working vehicle, you're free to explore the game's numerous worlds. 
 Nuts & Bolts' structure is similar to past games; complete levels to earn Jiggies, which get you 
 access to new levels with new Jiggies to be won. It's an old formula, but it's definitely one that 
 works. However, Nuts & Bolts is definitely more streamlined than its predecessors. In past games, 
 you'd be running around searching for hidden Notes, Jiggies, Mumbo Tokens, Jingos, et al. Nuts 
 & Bolts moves at a brisker pace, focusing solely on Jiggy collection. Jiggies are earned by completing 
 Challenges, which are marked on the mini-map.
  
  Thankfully, the challenges are a lot of fun, and forced me to think of new and unique ways to use 
 my vehicles. For example, one challenge had me knocking down as many dominoes as possible. To get 
 the highest score, I could build a really wide plane to sweep the area clear. Or, I could attach 
 a detonator to my plane and blow it up in the middle of the board. Another level had me cooking 
 an egg for Gruntilda's somewhat dim ex-assistant Klungo. While I could go the long route and fly 
 it to the volcano, I also had the option to attach a flamethrower to my ship and cook it then and 
 there. The challenges all have imaginative solutions, and I really had to think critically to complete 
 some of the tougher ones. However, there are too many 'L. O. G.'s Choice' challenges, in which you'll 
 be forced to use a vehicle pre-made by the game's creators. Making your own vehicles is the best 
 part of the game, and time the game shies away from it, it hurts the overall experience.
  
  Nuts & Bolts' awesome vehicle creator makes for an equally great multiplayer mode. It takes activities 
 from the single-player mode and pits you against up to seven people. You'll be racing, sumo-wrestling, 
 and the like. There's one thing that separates multiplayer matches from single-player ones - you 
 have the ability to control time. By holding the Back button, you'll rewind your vehicles actions. 
 Being able to undo your vehicles actions adds yet another layer of strategy to an already ridiculously 
 deep game. The great thing is, no matter how much you play online the experience will always be 
 fresh. Since it's impossible what kind of vehicles opponents will bring into the game, you'll never 
 know what to expect from the next match. It's fun to go online just to see what other gamers have 
 come up with. Being able to view and trade vehicles online has birthed a great online community. 
 While not LittleBIGPlanet caliber, the community provides enough to make Nuts & Bolts worth far 
 more than its $40 price tag.
  
  Whether you're travelling by land, sea or air, Nuts & Bolts is quite the looker. Each of the game's 
 worlds have a distinct visual style: LOGBOX 720 takes place inside a gigantic, 'next-next-gen' 
 gaming console, and Banjoland is a museum filled with relics from the franchise's past. Even if 
 you don't like Rare's trademark bright, cartoony visuals you'll at least be impressed from a technical 
 perspective. All the worlds are humongous and well-rendered. The occasional bout of slowdown isn't 
 enough to stop this from being one of the best looking games on the XBOX. The score is equally 
 excellent, with both brand-new tunes and remixed ones from Banjo's past. As per series tradition, 
 the song will dynamically change depending on where you are; adding or removing instruments as 
 you go into new areas. Also following in the footsteps of predecessors each character has a gibberish 
 voice clip which get aggravating after a very short time. Thankfully, the game gives you the option 
 to turn them off. In terms of presentation Nuts & Bolts is simply top-notch, it's got more humour 
 and charm than Rare's ever been able to cram into one of their games.
  
  It's been hard to review Nuts & Bolts, and even harder to attach a score; this is a game that will 
 do different things for different people. If you spent your youth in front of an open box of LEGO, 
 Nuts & Bolts is probably a game for you. However, the instant-gratification types should likely 
 look elsewhere. This is a game that requires a large investment of your time. In the end, you're 
 going to get out of it what you put into it. If you're willing to put in a lot, you'll find Nuts 
 & Bolts is one of the most ambitious and consistently fun games released this holiday season. It 
 may not be the Banjo-Threeie fans have been clamouring for but if you ask this reviewer, it's better 
 than that game ever could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffle_Fish
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Oh Banjo, how we have missed your 8 year absence from gaming. Back in the day, Rare provided us 
 with two spectacular platfromers that rivaled that of Nintendo's Super Mario 64. After Banjo Tooie, 
 we waited patiently for the next Banjo game to arrive. We were teased by a trailer and then finally 
 it was announced that the new Banjo would be vehicle based. Fan were furious, but some still had 
 hope. Rare promised that the game would still be a platformer. Well, Rare is full of crap. Banjo 
 Kazooie Nuts & Bolts is hardly a platformer, however, the game is still fun and enjoyable, and 
 certainly worth your time. 
  
  Now as you may recall, Banjo isnt known for having an outstanding narrative, and Nuts and Bolts 
 is no different. The game takes place 8 years after Banjo Tooie, and Banjo and Kazooie have both 
 gotten a little pudgy. Grunty's head, hobbles out from some rubble and challenges the Bear and 
 Bird for one last duel, however, this is stopped early by the creator of all video games, who decides 
 that the trio need to solve their issues a different way. The creator, or Log, makes Banjo and 
 Kazooie fit and gives Gruntilda a robot suit and a cat. The opening cinematic is hilarious, and 
 for the most part, the entire game is funny, even if their are way too many gamer jokes. Certain 
 characters have returned from previous games, some more obvious than others, and their really arent 
 many new characters. Log, Grunty's cat and Trophy Thomas are the only new characters in the game 
 really, which is really disappointing. The Banjo series has always had a wide variety of funny 
 and goofy characters and seeing as their are only 3 real additions, none of which are that charming 
 really. 
  
  Now lets get onto the gameplay, the newest thing in Banjo. As you may of seen, Kazooies moves have 
 been scrapped for vehicles. Kazooie can still attack, except now it is with a wrench, and it is 
 so weak that it is hardly worth it. Vehicle creation is very simple and is as easy as snapping 
 pieces together. You move your selected piece on a plane, using the control stick, D-pad and triggers 
 to move it up or down, left and right, and rotate it. Any Vehicle can function for the most part, 
 as long as it has an engine, fuel and something to move it, whether that be wings, a propeller, 
 or wheels. Once you have created your vehicle, you may find that it doesnt control as well as you 
 may of hoped. At times, certain vehicles can be very hard to control, even the premade vehicles. 
 It seems that no matter how fast you go, or how slow you go, if you tap anything, no matter how 
 heavy or flimsy it looks, you will spin and skid out of control,. Also, the game is physics based, 
 so you must keep in mind where you place your wheels, the weight of your vehicle etc. This can 
 lead to a lot of trial and error when making a vehicle. Most of the time I just edited an existing 
 and working vehicle and make it faster, add guns, etc. Also the placement of your guns are important 
 to, you cant manually aim them. You just press a button and they fire in the direction they were 
 placed. One last flaw to note is that each of your vehicles abilities are mapped to a certain face 
 button, and a lot of the time, you end up overloading your vehicle with abilities that make you 
 manually change what each button does, in the middle of action, depending on the situation, it 
 can either be a minor inconvenience, or a major problem. These small flaws can sometimes end up 
 costing you a challenge What are challenges you ask? 
  
  Well challenges are challenges you take on to earn a jiggy or a Trophy (four trophies make a jiggy) . 
 These challenges are displayed in each world in the shape of a jiggy on your map. No matter what 
 world your in, usually one of 8 characters will issue the challenge, which makes you feel like 
 you havent accomplished much, the lack of characters in this game is truly astounding, and I am 
 disappointed that Rare couldnt think of a couple more characters. Anyways, the challenges lead 
 from simple fetch quests, to races (lots and lots of races) , to knocking down a certain amount 
 of dominos. The challenges can sometimes be reminiscent of old Banjo games, but the old Banjo was 
 a platformer and close to 0% of these quests involve platforming. Sure there are fetch quests, 
 something usually associated with platforming but its usually just drive here, pick this up, drive 
 there. I understand if Rare wants to change the game up but they could at least keep the core gameplay 
 mechanics. Thankfully, the large majority of the Challenges are fun.
  
  The game also sports a multiplayer option through XBL or splitscreen, but you pretty much have 
 to spend a lot of time in the single player collecting parts, and it can take a lot of trial and 
 error to make a vehicle that competes with these vehicles. Games vary from races to battles and 
 then some. 
  
  Banjo Kazooie Nuts and Bolts looks amazing. The colors are bright and vibrant and all of the levels 
 in the game have such a great deal of detail. But for some odd reason, Banjo isnt "fur shaded" 
 like Conker was in the Conkers Bad fur day remake, and it looks sort of outta place. Also the game 
 suffers from some major slowdown at times, but it never really gets in the way. The levels in the 
 gamer are very disappointing. There are only six in the game and they are all pretty unoriginal. 
 I mean the first one is your standerd starter level and ***SPOILER ALERT*** The last is Spiral 
 Mountain, a level that has been in every Banjo game, and other than Banjo's house, nothing has 
 changed. ***Spoiler end***. The other levels are very mediocre, the second level is terrible, its 
 bland and a bout as exciting as the inside of your Xbox, which it is based off of! Banjo Land is 
 a just a mishmash of objects from previous Banjo games, its cool but not original. 
  
  The music and sound effects are decent. There are a couple of good tunes and some great remixes 
 or old Banjo tunes but for the most part, the new songs arent very memorable, you wont find you 
 self humming them or playing a certain level just to hear a song like you would in a previous Banjo 
 game. Sound effects though, are top notch, complete with annoying voice overs like the previous 
 games. Everything sounds like it should, and overall Banjo does a pretty good job in the sound 
 department.
  
  Banjo has a total of 131 jiggies, and it takes 76 to beat the game, which means Banjo is pretty 
 long. However, you will find you spend way more time than you needed assembling vehicles. Sometimes 
 it can take a good 10 minutes to assemble the perfect vehicle to accomplish a 2 minute task. The 
 game is only $40 new, and is certainly worth checking out, new or old to the series.
  
  I have been a Banjo fan since the original, and frankly, Nuts and Bolts leaves me baffled at what 
 to think of it. I do miss the platforming, Kazooies moves, and quirky characters. However the new 
 gameplay is actually really fun, and could be outstanding if Rare made some improvements. If you 
 are a Banjo Fan or just someone looking for a good game, I strongly recommend Nuts and Bolts, its 
 fun gameplay, long length and cheap price ware enough reason to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrExplosives
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  To start off with, the origional Banjo-Kazooie was the one game that MADE me buy an N64. It's sequel 
 only further validated the purchase. However, they, along with all other platformers (save mario) 
 went the way of the dinosaur, and i was sad to see them go. But Rare is not willing to let it go 
 into that game over screen in the sky. 
  
  And I, for one, am grateful.
  
  Nuts & Bolts is an example of extreme self-parody. The game cant seem to get over how lousy it 
 thinks it is. Almost made me want to slap the TV and tell it to snap out of it. Nuts & Bolts firmly 
 believes in "out with the old, in with the new," bringing one of the best vehicle creators in the 
 buisness with it. 
  
  The game begins with a pretty rocky start, with the vehicle creator being extremely limited at 
 the start. Building good and fun vehicles is impossible at first, and i often found myself frustrated 
 that i couldn't build a fun and/or good vehicle relatively quickly. 
  
  But i ended up with having alot of fun building my ultimate vehicle. One bit marred my fun. I spent 
 as much of my time wishing i had a certain part with a certain function as i did building fun vehicles. 
 
  
  But still, going through the game and watching it beat itself up was an absolute blast. I ended 
 up usually using bought blueprints for the special challenges than making my own custom vehicle. 
 i still havn't finished it yet, but i'm sure it will be just as much a blast to finish as it was 
 to begin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  It's the first time i have played the banjo kazooie series and i must say i like it a lot.
  
  It's hardly what you would call revolutionary but it provides lots of addictive game play.
 
  
  I can find myself playing this game for hours at time and never getting bored I'm only 20% in and 
 can say it will offer many more hours of game play.
  
  I can safely say it will offer lots of replay value as it offers pretty much unlimited contraction 
 possibilities, its jus fun to see what you can come up with just love it and it's the best part 
 of the game .
  
  Game is just right when it comes to difficulty not easy but i did found it quite frustrating at 
 times but nothing major, it will only make you play it more ha ha that a good thing.
  
  Simple it's priced well it plays well and it offers good value for money so give it a go what do 
 you have to loss
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Banjo Kazooie Nuts & Bolts is the official sequal to Banjo Tooie. After fans have waited 8 long 
 years for a sequal was it worth it. answer is Yes, but the game stands on a lower scale than its 
 prequals. Nuts & Bolts is nowhere near how great the first two were. The Vehicle addition adds 
 a unique change to the gameplay. although the game is fun I often find myself thinking that I want 
 it to be the old gameplay instead. The story in thise one is odd, rather than saving your sister 
 or stopping a witch from getting revenge on you, you simply compete in a video game against Grunthilda, 
 she plays the bad guy of course. I really enjoy playing this game but it seems that it was not 
 quite what I waited 8 years for. some of the gameplay can be repetitive and the controls do take 
 some time to get used to. It does rather have a learning curve and the Text can be difficult to 
 read. let me now focus on the positives. You get to customize your own vehicles which is time consuming 
 and fun. It is also cool because you do not have just one way to get a jiggy you have a goal and 
 you use the vehicle of your choice to accomplish it for example, one jiggy requires you to put 
 trash in a can the hint says that if you had a vehicle that could fly and lift stuff it would help 
 I had built a step ladder to get up ther and put the trash in and did not use a flying vehicle 
 at all. the game is fun and will please most Banjo Kazooie fans but at the game time dissapoint 
 us it has done both to me. either way you must give this a try it is the best new Gen platform 
 around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play as Banjo-Kazooie and the story is about kinda building vechilcles. I think 
 this game has easy and tackle missions to play. Creating your vechicles are easy to create. The 
 game has not that much gameplay but it is great game for people who likes to create vechicles. 
 So long story short the game is very boring, there isn't that much gameplay, and I think you should 
 get the other games on your list first then this game. The fun thing is that you can create a helicopter 
 that you can go up in the air with but if you want to go down and land it. It will be alittle hard. 
 The camera is also a terrible thing in the game. Like it is far away from Banjo and Kazooie. To 
 me they should have made this game just like the first two but they failed with that. But the visuals 
 are really good and creative. The soundtrack in the game is very amazing and adds such a good thyme 
 to the game. There are also a cool replay mode and there is a very amazing multiplayer mode.
  
  The good of the game is that the missions are easy to tackle through. You can create cool vechicles. 
 The visuals are good and creative. The soundtrack adds a good thyme to the game. The multiplayer 
 is very amazing.
  
  The bad of the game is that the camera is a little messed up. The game gets boring easily. Landing 
 some vechicles are hard to land. The game is just about missions.
  
  Overall if you have played the first two Banjooie Kazooie games then you might not like this game. 
 I think if you are going to buy this game you should wait and get your other games before this 
 game. I rate this game 7.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  As the comparison has been made you can think of Banjo Kazooie as a sort of Grand Theft Lego. While 
 you wont be stealing cars or beating hookers here you still can take on a number of different missions 
 at any given time at in any number of ways. And thats thanks to Nuts and Bolts deep vehicle creator 
 tool. With it you can make any number of vehicles that operate on land, sea air or anything in 
 between. Despite the game's friendly apearance though, there is a learning curv that may put off 
 the more casual gamers out there. But if you stick it through and keep an open mind you'll be sure 
 to enjoy the game. The environments are huge and beautiful and alot of fun to play in, but the 
 missions are toss up. There are some great ones, prinkeled with the generic such as racing around 
 and the ones that will likely just plain frustrate. It's is good then that often times you'll have 
 plenty else to choose from. The controls for the most part are pretty well, the ground vehicle 
 controls might be a bit off from what you expect and may take a bit of time to get use to, but 
 the controls for air and water based vehicles feel spot on. Aside from the missions there are plenty 
 of optional stuff to in the hub world and you do get to try out a little platforming in the hub 
 world.
  
  
  Im almost scared to say it from the inevitable response from fans of shooters, but I have to admit, 
 Nuts and Bolts is probably the best looking 360 game I've seen. It's beautiful stylish and impressive 
 considering the scale. There are texture pop in problem how ever. Nothing major and if you're a 
 regualer player of 360 games you're probably use to it. The soundtrack is also stellar, full of 
 wonderfully well composed orchestrated tracks. But the sound effects may annoy some peaople I guess.
 
  
  For a fourty dollar game, Banjo gives you well more than your money worth. Fist you have the single 
 player campaign. It took me about twenty hours finish, although Im sure if you went straight through 
 it you end up at a time of around fifteen hours. But theres just so much more to do in the single 
 player that you could squeese way more time into it. Then there the competitive multiplayer. It's 
 not the best, but it gets the job done, thats for sure. You can compete in many different sports, 
 races, battle and objective themed games with plenty of of arena to do them in. Multiplayer has 
 split screen and online options. And in case you're wondering, you can use the vehicles you buil 
 in multiplayer. On top of this you can also save films from single player and multiplayer, take 
 clips or pictures from them and share them with your friends, Halo 3 style. And you can also share 
 blue-prints of your vehicles.
  
  With all that Nuts and Bolts has to offer, with how well put together it all is and with how cheap 
 it is I'd say there really no legitmate reason for any 360 owner to skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  Its been a while since we last saw the bear and bird, and the new game has been met with good expectations. 
 For mer personally however, the game failed quite a bit. Let me just say the game is a good game 
 in many ways. The graphics while cartoony are what you would expect, and are very well detailed. 
 The levels themselves are greatly designed, with the stages truly looking like they had been built. 
 The concept of building vehicles is fantastic, and is generally executed in a very good way. Where 
 it falls for me is that it seems a little too childish. This would obviously be because they are 
 aiming for a younger audience, but you would expect them to try and appeal to the old banjo-kazooie 
 fans as well. The missions also suffer. Ceratin missions allow you to use your own choice of vehicle 
 while others require you to use a pre-made vehicle. However some missions regardless the vehicle, 
 are just annoyingly difficult. For a kids game you would expect the missions to be slightly easier 
 to perform. The vehicle controls generally suffer, with turning becoming probably the worst problem. 
 Overall the idea of the story was a good, but it just doesn't seem to be played out very well. 
 Nuts & Bolts was a game that started out with great ideas, but was implemented rather poorly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyspot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I didn't like this title a whole lot, because the controls are very touchy and the challenges are, 
 well, challenging. Maybe too challenging. This title has a good concept, but it doesn't live up 
 to all the hype. The controls are hard to figure out at first. I hope that either this game gets 
 a control and realism fix or that it has a good learning curve. This game might be okay for older 
 kids because it might be too frustrating for younger ones. I would not recommend this game to others 
 with small children, but might recommend this title to ones with older children. I hope this review 
 helps others choose a better game to buy their loved ones for Christmas. This title was not what 
 I was anticipating. If you choose to purchase this game, you should consider before making that 
 purchase.
  
  troyspot
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronny_19881
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Spoiler free i hope. If their are some complain on the forums...
  
  The introduction is short and sweet. You get a glimpse at some morbidly obese heroes and get to 
 see a few great one liners said between enemies, that is a great and funny way to start a game. 
 But after the intro things take a slight dive...
  
  And that dive is the tutorial, Rare doesn't slowly introduce its new Banjo interface, they throw 
 it all at you in the first five minutes! Your first bit of action is text wall form Mumbo and I 
 was disappointed in how they pulled off explaining the vehicle creation. But once you've skimmed 
 through the taxing tutorial your in for a treat my friends. You get to explore the best part of 
 the game... Showdown Town! All the best bits of gameplay can be found in in this little town that 
 works as your hub world. Crates, notes and Jiggys this town has it all and its rich with detail 
 to boot! Once you have had your fill of platforming you can start your missions giving to you by 
 L. O. G. which consist of traveling to worlds he has created to compete in his Jiggy games.
  
  This is where the meat of the game is. I'm disappointed that most of the Jiggy games force 
 you to use your vehicles you have created to compete in them but what ticks me off is when L. O. G. 
 insists that you use his ready made contraptions. And another problem I have is that every one 
 of them is timed. This part is what makes me miss the old Banjo games the most, I liked walking 
 into a room in Banjo Kazooie, all the time in the world and no timer, and have a Jiggy floating 
 right in front of you but you couldn't get to it because you didn't have a certain ability yet. 
 That almost never happens in this game, the only restrictions you really have are in the beginning 
 and that's because you don't a certain tire yet... BUT in the end their are a lot really cleaver 
 Jiggy games that really make you think, though most are way to easy. I'm fairly satisfied with 
 the different worlds in this game my only complaint is Logbox 720. I wont go into detail but I'm 
 sure you will understand once you manage to get there. Its worse then the Titanic level in Gex 
 Enter the Gecko...
  
  I'm satisfied with this games story but I am even more satisfied on how this game parodies other 
 games and has tons of references to past Rare titles and... Nintendo games, they seem to parody 
 Mario a lot in this Xbox 360 game. The animation to entering worlds and the Super Banjo Universe 
 achievement to name a few. Oh and look for a Diddy Kong Racing reference, you have to pay attention! 
 Best in the game! 
  
  Now on to the graphics! They are outstanding! Best looking Rare game yet and they still managed 
 to keep the Banjo Kazooie charm. But if you haven't Installed your game yet then you might have 
 a few hiccups in frame rate and see pauses in cut scenes when the camera angle changes. But once 
 you install it to the hard drive you can say good buy to all that. So far I haven't seen any problems 
 since I have had it installed. And it makes your Xbox sound less like a leaf blower and more like 
 a Gamecube. Beautiful silence.
  
  I have to throw in a complaint about Rare making Kazooie next to useless in this game. All she 
 dose is use a wench to magically move things around. Instead of saying Bree Gull she should say 
 Wingardium Leviosa to save some confusion! Rare threw away all of Kazooies movies from Kazooie 
 and Tooie and it is simply unacceptable. The 360's controller has plenty of buttons to map her 
 moves to so why not take advantage of them and make fans proud! 
  
  If your are a Banjo fan pick this up! If your a new comer pick this up. And if you have Live please 
 pick up the first two games! Because I guarantee you will get used to Rares new gameplay choices 
 and if your playing the first two for the first time, you will fall in love with the series that 
 has proven that platformers are still wanted. This series has been near and dear to many gamers 
 hearts and we want more before 2018!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, let me say that I was not initially pleased with Rare's decision in changing the 
 Banjo-Kazooie formula for Nuts and Bolts. Being a fan of Rare's legacy with the 3-D platformer 
 genre, I was one of many who awaited a brand new platformer featuring everyone's favorite bear-and-bird 
 duo. Upon hearing about Rare's newest Banjo-Kazooie adventure, I was pretty shocked to see Banjo 
 and Kazooie driving cars, boats, and aircrafts instead of jumping, Talon Trotting, and Flip-Flapping 
 throughout cleverly-designed levels. However, as the release date of Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts 
 quickly approached, I decided to check out the duo's newest adventure regardless of my skepticism. 
 So, it's been several years since Banjo-Tooie. Do Banjo and Kazooie still have the skills for success?
 
  
  Nuts and Bolts begins with Banjo pigging out on pizza and Kazooie playing her own suspiciously 
 familiar video game system. Suddenly, Gruntilda (who is still only a skull after the events of 
 Banjo-Tooie) appears and challenges the duo to another battle. Just as the fight breaks out, a 
 mysterious Pong-faced stranger known as the Lord of Games (LOG) appears. Saying he is the creator 
 of all video games, LOG creates a brand-new world called Showdown Town for Banjo and Kazooie to 
 battle Gruntilda. LOG introduces the Banjo-Kazooie crew to Showdown Town, a hub world where Banjo 
 and Kazooie can build vehicles to battle Gruntilda. Thus, Banjo and Kazooie begin their latest 
 fight against Grunty. Other characters make appearances with some new looks as well. The story 
 is self-referential at every opportunity; LOG constantly references other games and scenarios (even 
 going so far as poking fun at the shooter genre) . Rare has always managed to spice up a Banjo-Kazooie 
 storyline with their own brand of fourth-wall-shattering, self-referential humor and Nuts and Bolts 
 is no exception. Prepare for some hilarious writing and plenty of inside jokes from LOG and the 
 many characters. And don't worry; Gruntilda rhymes return as well.
  
  Once LOG drops Banjo and Kazooie into the game hub Showdown Town, the player is quickly introduced 
 to the vehicle construction aspect of gameplay. While many other driving and racing games have 
 included incredible amounts of customization, few of them have made the customization rather intuitive 
 and simple. Fortunately, Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts manages to make building your own vehicle 
 easy. There are a degree of rules when constructing; engines need fuel, weapons need ammo, and 
 similar ideas do add structure to the gameplay, but aside from these types of regulations, there 
 really aren't too many barriers. You can pretty much create whatever type of vehicle you want. 
 Creating your dream car (or plane, or boat, or whatever) is intuitive and very addictive, something 
 that few vehicle-based games have been able to master. The game does have a bit of a problem concerning 
 the controls, which take getting used to, especially in the crowded labyrinth of Showdown Town. 
 However, once you get the simple mechanics together, creating, editing, and designing your ride 
 can be very fun.
  
  Nuts and Bolts starts in the hub of Showdown Town, but you'll quickly find Banjo and Kazooie being 
 tossed into one of the game's expansive worlds. Each world offers a number of Jiggies to collect 
 and objectives to complete, each one in episodic "chapters". Different chapters become unlocked 
 as you progress through the game, along with brand-new challenges. Completing challenges can net 
 you Jiggies, musical notes to spend on items in Showdown Town, or if you're particularly skilled, 
 Trophies to spend on Jiggies. Completionists will find the Trophy challenges to be a bit difficult, 
 but it's nothing that some stronger parts or new designs can't accomplish. The overall challenge 
 design is generally inventive, as you'll see some great utilization of the different vehicle creation 
 opportunities. One objective may demand a quick race around a level, another may demand a quick 
 fetch quest. While some of these challenges have a tendency to feel alike, you'll no doubt be impressed 
 at their design. There usually isn't one precise way to accomplish a task, making the challenges 
 as diverse and versatile as the vehicle customization itself. Even when the game poses a few similar 
 challenges, you'll quickly be impressed at other obstacles, like the stellar boss fights, which 
 are a blast to complete. There isn't a huge amount of diversity in the actual objectives, but thanks 
 to a very detailed and customizable vehicle creation engine, you'll quickly find yourself trying 
 new ideas to complete the challenges.
  
  Even when exploring the hub, there's plenty to do in between the different levels' challenges. 
 You can earn new parts and blueprints with musical notes, but you'll also find Mumbo Crates throughout 
 Showdown Town that house new parts. There's also Jinjos to liberate, abilities to strengthen, hidden 
 Jiggies to find, and notes to scour rooftops for. There are even a few laughs to encounter, as 
 can be seen in ex-Grunty lackey Klungo's own video game, a weird jumpfest featuring Klungo that 
 seems to be a homage to classic Atari games. Once you earn new abilities, you can travel throughout 
 the entire city to encounter its secrets. While the hub doesn't match the challenges seen in the 
 actual worlds, the expansive amount of things to do in Showdown Town is very impressive, at least 
 when it comes to occupying your time between challenges or tuning up your ride. Along with a great 
 single-player, the ability to battle and share blueprints with friends over Xbox Live is a fun 
 diversion. The gameplay in Nuts and Bolts is comprehensive and versatile, resulting in a fun and 
 addictive title with plenty of options whether alone or with friends.
  
  But to address this as a Banjo-Kazooie fan from the start, Nuts and Bolts really isn't a platformer. 
 Banjo's moves are incredibly slimmed down, with only jumping, climbing, walking tightropes, and 
 grabbing ledges available. The rest is almost all based on the vehicles. While there's plenty of 
 Banjo-Kazooie references and such, the nostalgia tends to run annoyingly deep. One of the levels, 
 Banjoland, is a museum featuring Banjo-Kazooie memorabilia. It's interesting, but it can grow annoying. 
 While Nuts and Bolts is definitely a good game, as a Banjo-Kazooie game, it's pretty average. The 
 nostalgia feels tantalizing, almost as if Rare was teasing us with all this Banjo-Kazooie fan service 
 instead of releasing a traditional platformer. But if you can forgive Rare for shoving all this 
 Banjo-Kazooie nostalgia in your face instead of making a dedicated platformer sequel, Nuts and 
 Bolts will satisfy fans with its constant knack at not taking itself seriously.
  
  Presentation-wise, Nuts and Bolts is technically proficient. Once the opening cutscene rolls, you 
 see the new art style, which parallels the older Banjo-Kazooie look with fantastic realism and 
 unique character design. Shimmering waters, beautiful skies, and plenty of unique level design 
 round out a visual masterpiece. Sound consists of familiar Banjo-Kazooie games' themes of past. 
 Each level contains some great themes or remixes of themes. Banjoland, for instance, features a 
 great medley of themes from older Banjo-Kazooie games. The classic Banjo-Kazooie gibberish remains 
 entertaining, albeit a bit different from past games, but it's still a great inclusion, making 
 conversations really funny. The overall presentation of Nuts and Bolts is stellar whenever possible, 
 always pushing the technical limits, but never forgetting the classic presentation elements that 
 made Banjo-Kazooie such a creative hit.
  
  Pros
  + Vehicle creation is simple, but remarkably deep
  + Mission objectives are challenging
  + 
 Lots of replay value
  + Plenty of hilarious dialogue and inside jokes
  + Sharp presentation
  
  Cons
  - Controls depend too much on vehicle stats
  - Some mission 
 objectives can feel too similar
  - Tends to rub nostalgic value in your face
  
  Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts isn't Banjo-Kazooie 3; in fact, it really doesn't try to be. Instead, 
 we get a great mix of skill-based objectives, an addictive vehicle creation element, and classic 
 Rareware humor. While some objectives don't pan out as well as they could've been, and there are 
 a few control issues, it can't be denied how downright inventive Nuts and Bolts manages to be. 
 It isn't what many gamers were expecting in a Banjo-Kazooie game, but Nuts and Bolts stands as 
 a remarkably creative game with plenty to do and create. With plenty of customization available 
 in the vehicle construction, completing the many challenges ultimately comes down to how you want 
 to complete each objective, something few games have accomplished to this degree. Containing a 
 huge hub along with dynamic and interesting levels, it's pretty safe to say that Rare did know 
 what they were doing in making this remarkable twist on the Banjo-Kazooie franchise. If the vehicle-customization 
 doesn't hook you, the challenging objectives and laugh-out-loud humor will. Don't denounce Nuts 
 and Bolts as a gimmicky platformer, because that couldn't be further from the truth. It's not flawless, 
 but Rare's spin on the Banjo-Kazooie universe is one of their most unique games yet and worth any 
 gamer's time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I am sure this game will alienate the platform purists who wanted a sequel to the series. This 
 game was made for the gamers that want the next evolution in pick up and play sandbox games.
  
  This game is a real gem with lots of polish and charm. The graphics are sharp.
  The sound 
 and music is top notch.
  The physics will immerses the player.
  Lots of little detail that will impress.
  
  The humor will have you chuckling and the deep 
 design gameplay will get you hooked like nobody's business.
  
  I like how they thought out of the box on this one for game design. I really hope this game is 
 a success because I can't wait to see what they will do with a sequel.
  
  Any gamer that passes on this one will regret it.
  
  Well done Rare! I haven't been this charmed 
 with a game since the original Mario 64.
  
  Now hopefully this will start a new sub-genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavlov1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Banjo-Kazooie N&B is a great game. It gives a chance to really omit creativity in the vehicles 
 to be made. There is pretty much an endless amount of ideas to be made up. But, you have to actually 
 get past the part about it being just a vehicle game, because that is exactly what Rare said it 
 was going to be. As far as vehicle games go, this is one of the best I have seen just because of 
 the time spent on it. The levels are very fun, especially the grunty battles. They're all unique 
 in their own way, and I can't really say because it will spoil the game. But, I'm sure its on youtube 
 if you want it spoiled just a little. 
  
  Now, for the bad. There isn't too many things that are 'major' problems I have encountered so far. 
 But, sometimes challenges can get really frustrating because you may run out of time, or start 
 a race to a bad start. Another thing is when I am playing online, there aren't too many people. 
 Lately it has been getting better because the game was just released in Europe a couple days ago, 
 and I have found more matches, plus I've heard a bunch of people are getting it for Christmas as 
 well. 
  
  Overall, I would recommend this game to pretty much anyone who wants to see what their mind can 
 really achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfly110
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I have spent the past few weeks playing this game to become immersed fully into the experience 
 of the game, and have everything good and bad from the game, so for this game I wil split it up 
 into several categories in order to show everybody all that is good and bad about it. 
  Glossary
  aa1aa: controls
  aa2aa: vehicle creation
  aa3aa: graphics
  aa4aa: difficulty
 
  aa5aa: story mode
  aa6aa: multiplayer
  aa7aa: challenges
  aa8aa: characters/ levels
  aa9aa: anything else
  aa10aa: the sum up of it all (for the lazy folk out there.)
  
  aa1aa: 
 controls
  The controls in Nuts and Bolts is pretty good, banjo controls very smoothly, and you get used to 
 the controls very quickly and it all just feels natural. I do have several complaints however about 
 the controls. ne is that the land vehicles control terribly, once you get vehicles that go in water 
 or fly you will find yourself relyign on them to simply avoid the bad and slippery controls of 
 land vehicles. However, the planes and boats control so good that they make up for the land vehicles. 
 
  So in overall I give the controls an : 8.5/10
  
  aa2aa: vehicle creation
  The vehicle creator is very great and smooth, I personally find it an enjoyable experience, and 
 use it as much as I explore or play challenges. There are many diferent parts. (I believe Rare 
 said that there was over 10000, and trust me they are right!) I am almost 100% completed with the 
 game and I still find new parts to improve and "pimp out" my vehicle as much as possible. I do 
 have three SMALL complaints about the vehicles are as follows. One is that there are onjot enough 
 colors! The color selection is terrible, plus the few colors there are all blend together, reed 
 and brown look the same, peach and silver look the same, green aqua and blue look very similar, 
 etc. The second one is that the game starts you out with hardly anything at all. You just get hardly 
 enough parts to get you car going. The third one is that sometimes the test track drops you in 
 weird places. For instance, I made a pirate ship and it kept dropping me down on the plane planding 
 pad. BUt I fixed this by maknig my pirate ship fly!!!!
  So I give the vehicle creator a: 9.5/0
  
  aa3aa: graphics
  The graphics in Nuts and BOlts 
 are amazing, nuf said. I explored every single level of this world and looked into every niche 
 and have not yet discovered any single detail in the game that is blurry at all or even not realistic, 
 this game whil keeping its cartoony feel manages to make everything look as though it could exist 
 in this world today. I really do not have any thing else to say about this game other than this. 
 I guess that I was especially impressed with the skies in Nutty Acre, this may sound lame but just 
 fly up there and you will see what I mean.
  I give graphics a: perfect 10/10!
  
  aa4aa: difficulty
  DIfficulty on this game is basically like a roller coaster ride. The difficulty 
 is actually almost random at times. For instance, the hardest challenge that I have faced in the 
 game is in Nutty Acres where I had to race Piddles, they gave her all of these guns that you cant 
 get for another like 20 jiggies into the game so you are basically just riding in a useless piece 
 of junk and trying to keep up with her weapons. ANd then later in the game I had to race in the 
 Jiggoseum, and I used the same junker vehicle and i kicked butt. IT makes no sense. I guess what 
 makes me complain about the difficulty is that it was advertised so heavily on being child friendly, 
 and wlel I am the most hardcore gamer in my school and i sometimes have quiete a bit of difficulty 
 in it. 
  SO I guess I give the dificulty in it a: 7/10.
  
  aa5aa: story mode
  The game has a fantastic story. I will try and keep this section not too long as to avoid spoilers, 
 but basically it follows the same formula, grunty raises from the dead, banjo fights her etc. However, 
 it has a nice twist, as banjo (morbidly obese) and grunty (just a head) are about to have an all 
 out brawl, theLord of Games" (known as LOG) Pauses it because of how lame it is, he then makes 
 banjo lose weight and gives grunty a robot body and sends them to showdown town, to add another 
 twist he removes gruntys magic and kazooies moves and makes them use vehicles to add to the "fun" 
 of it.
  So, I give story a : 9/10
  
  aa6aa: multiplayer
  I personally like the multiplayer a lot, it was this section that held me off from making this 
 review. (I had to go to my cousins house in order to play 2 player as my live is down.)
  it is good, a little shallow but good. I really like the blueprint system where you trade with 
 friends, but other than that it basically baguely reminds me of mario kart wii. I have nothing 
 els to say about this so...
  8.5/10
  
  aa7aa: challenges
  The challenges are okay, a lot of them are just essentially racing, which is not bad but it is 
 not what I was promised. There are still a lot of challenges that are creative however, so those 
 make up for all of the racing. My personal favorite challengwe was this one where you had to race 
 Mr. Fit and Trophy Thomas in a race in the waters of nuty acres, there is no tight turns really 
 so it leaves a lot of room to experiment. (this was the only challenge that I succesfully was able 
 to use my beastly pirate ship.) SOme challenges are a little unforgiving though.
  SO I give challenges an 8/10.
  
  aa8aa: characters/ levels
  The levels are really creativly 
 thought up and made. The beacon of it all is the hub world Showdown Town, this hub is HUGE! It 
 is literally miles and miles in length, you can explore here for hundreds of hours and still find 
 new stuff. In all honesty showdown town is probably the best part of the game. THe regular levels 
 are very good also, My favrite of those is definetly Nuty Acres, I am not a fan of the Jiggoseum 
 though, it seems very small and just basically put together at the last minute. The other thing 
 is that it seems like Log Box 720 and Terrarium of tTerror are almost the same. ALso the characters 
 are extremely witty and have great personalities.
  So levels: 9/10.
  
  aa9aa: anything else
  only thing is that sometimes frame rate drops, No need for a rating.
 
  
  aa10aa: the sum up of it all
  controls an : 8.5/10
  vehicle creator a: 9.5/10
  graphics a: perfect 10/10!
  dificulty in it a: 7/10.
  story a : 9/10
  multiplayer: 8.5/10
 
  challenges: 8/10
  levels/characters: 9/10.
  My Average: a 9/10.
  I may edit it later, but as of now I am fine wtih this.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game over 2 months ago and couldn't wait to play it .............. now I'm returning 
 it.
  
  The worst thing about this game is the fact that the characters in the game don't talk and instead 
 you are forced to read everything in text. As if this is not bad enough, the text is scrolled across 
 the screen in tiny very hard to read text. This feature immediately made it impossible to have 
 any emotional connection to the game.
  
  Even though the Game environments are absolutely top notch and the graphics fantastic, the missions 
 themselves are not very interesting and the game just feels like its targeted at small kids, rather 
 than someone in their twenties.
  
  As someone who has never played the previous Banjo Kazooie games I am also super disappointed that 
 RARE has reduced Kazooie to virtually a completely Superfluous character with no real functionality. 
 I would have preferred to see Kazooie fly rather than have him replaced with the whole Vehicle 
 thing.
  
  The entire game just felt to me like a series of bad decisions, and I can honestly say that I am 
 normally easily satisfied and greatly enjoyed RARE's previous masterpiece KAMEO, but this is just 
 plain disappointing. 
  
  I have read someone say that they are prefering to play this game instead of GEAR 2 (in my opinion 
 the BEST game I have ever played, besides BIOSHOCK) ............ I say to that person have you actually 
 played both games???
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowserpwns
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  BK: N&B is a good game. i found it highly addictive and the vehicle creation tool is very fun to 
 play around with. the worlds are huge and they have alot of the original characters back from the 
 first two games.
  
  My favorite part in the game is the sound. i absolutly LOVE the sound effects in the game. but 
 the best thing is the music that plays. i myself loved all the music from the original games and 
 almost all of it is back with an intresting remix on the original scores. very kool!
  
  now the bad. if they wouldve based the gameplay and plot off of the original two i would be happier. 
 dont get me wrong i love the vehicles and everything, but as a BK fanboy i wouldve wanted it to 
 be more like the original two. other than that and the slight land vehicle control issues a very 
 good game. (btw very strong multiplayer as well)
  
  
  Overall i think this game is an exelent game people should at least try out for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radekjonak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  being a huge platform gamer, the 360 has had lack of anything decent in years. watching trailers 
 and game play of bk n&b i was skeptical. then seeing it on the shelf at a local eb i took a chance 
 and bought it for 69.95. from the first play through of about an hour i was hooked all the things 
 that did not gel together from what i saw in the trailers or game play, seemed to come together 
 beautifully once i had the game pad in my hands. it really is a game you have to play for your 
 self and experience.
  
  vibrant colours bring the world to life, so far smooth frame rates, haven't experienced any problems 
 yet. character animation is great, funny dialogue and the building of vehicles is very responsive 
 and fun, sky is the limit here (or the parts you manage to find)
  
  it really shattered my expectation's, and breathes new life into the platform genre, i can see 
 my self playing this for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charles3646
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  There's definitely something to care about when an ex #1 franchise, makes a comeback after several 
 years. Well to make things short, there's no exception here. Already a big fan of the first two 
 games, I was truly in a hype when I heard that the previously cancelled Banjo-Threee was back on 
 track. Even if it was in a totally new kind of gameplay and that there would be no collecting (to 
 which there's a reference in the game) That would be another occasion to play with one of the greatest 
 character in the gaming world. The new vehicle based gameplay, to wich you really have to get used 
 to because you play in them from the begining to the end, is balanced by gigantic worlds in wich 
 you won't even dare to walk becuse they are really huge. You'll have to buy, create or play with 
 infinite possibilities of transportation, throught diferent missions and challenge to unlock new 
 worls and content in the game. There's a bit of humor there (not as hilarious as the paper mario 
 titles) and it really makes the game addictive because you'll want to know how every characters 
 wil interact throught diffrent situations. Not the greatest game in recent memory, but an entertaining 
 journey for new and old fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielpyoung45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying don't listen to the people who say this is a bad game. Because its not! 
 Its a good game, its just not like any of the other banjo games. I can say a lot about the good 
 things about this game but I think i will start with the bad first (if I can name any) . One thing 
 is for controlling the ground vehicles is hard to do. Even when you put the wheels to the side 
 of your vehicle it stills spins, so that is a downside. Also some of the challenges can get repetitive, 
 so it can get annoying. Another thing is you can spend maybe 20 minutes working on a vehicle only 
 to find out when you try it that there is something wrong and you need to fix it, it can get annoying. 
 Also that you can't use any of the old moves is annoying. But as people know there is always a 
 good side to a game here are this games good sides. For one the graphics are amazing! Better than 
 a good amount of games I have and I have COD4, and Halo 3. Also if you reordered this game then 
 you got Banjo Kazooie before it comes for xbox arcade. Another thing is making the vehicles, it 
 is so engrossing that I only wanted to make a small adjustment to one vehicle that I ended up spending 
 an hour there making more vehicles and then realizing there is still the story line to play. And 
 for all the people that were tired of not knowing how to get the key in "Freezy Easy Park" well 
 with Nuts and Bolts you can finally get that key and also the "stop-n-swoop" secrets are revealed 
 as a bonus to the game. And there are more notes to find which makes the game harder and funner, 
 because that way you will have to try hard to find all the notes. And notes is currency, so it 
 is a necessity that you find notes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frietje
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Why wait 8 years before releasing another game from a great know francise? While Rare is now in 
 hands of Microsoft they are trying to reah the level they once had in the Nintendo era. After some 
 good and some worse games Rare brings back one of the best platformers ever made.
  
  Platformer? Hard to tell... all the typical banjo kazooie moves have been lost due to 'overage'. 
 Instead a whole new genre has been introduced. It basicly comes down to: accept mission, choose 
 or build a vehicle, go for jiggy.
  
  Fortunately the building vehicles section is very well made. As the game stands or falls with this 
 you can tell that Rare has put a lot of energy in it as it runs really smooth.
  
  Sound and visuals are good. The typical banjo songs and effects are back, including the sometimes 
 annoying grunts, real fans however will love this.
  
  The game runs smooth bus it has its gramedrops wich seem to come at random. 
  
  Overall I would 
 say that Rare brought back the bear and bird in another formula. A formula that you might check 
 as it is well produced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkTwistedFool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the original Banjo Kazooie and although I wan't expecting a vehicle-oriented 
 game (I didn't read any reviews) when I plucked it off the shelf I was delighted by all that could 
 be done. It's a care-free fun-filled adventure that will have you glued to the screen for weeks.
 
  
  I can be a bit difficult to control at times and the game gets a bit choppy here and there but 
 it doesn't damage the experience hardly at all. Getting used to the realistic physics can be difficult 
 on your land vehicles but once you get the handle of it and learn to balance your vehicles you 
 can do amazing things.
  
  Although some critics may hold high the ability to avoid traversing the worlds searching for "shinies" 
 there is plenty of this to go around and I, for one am and have always been a huge fan of platformers. 
 If you're like me you'll spend hours just getting to all the places your not supposed to go to 
 in town and in the game worlds only to find that the developers expected it and left a few notes 
 or a parts box. Masterfully done Rare. To all my fellow platformers and armchair engineers: Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdude5678
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I just now playing the original Banjo-Kazooie, and yeah, the new Nuts and Bolts game is different. 
 But when you think about it, how many sequels totally change how you play the series? Not many, 
 so good for Rare for making something different. There's a new vehicle customization "workshop" 
 where you can make almost any vehicle you want. At first you don't have many parts, but that's 
 where the platforming comes in. You drive a little trolley around the HUGE hub world of Showdown 
 Town, and when you see a crate that holds more parts to create vehicles, you'll probably want to 
 get it. So when your vehicle can't get to it, sometimes Banjo has to venture out on his own, and 
 do a little platforming. There's a great platforming moment when you climb a huge tower in the 
 town. But at first the challenges are easy. Then you get to the Terrarium of Terror, and the levels 
 there on can be very hard. The game has a steep learning curve as well, when building vehicles 
 to overcome challenges. And the achievements in this game are fun to get. You can make a vehicle 
 that's part boat, part plane, part underwater vehicle, or part land vehicle. It's fun trying out 
 your new vehicles. The final boss battle, which I won't spoil, IS VERY HARD! I was very surprised, 
 because there are Grunty battles in the game where you get upgrades to your Showdown Town trolley, 
 and they are usually easy, but man! The last boss battle was hard! Even after you get the 75 jiggies 
 minimum to face the final battle, there are still 56 jiggies left to get! Anyway, for only 40 bucks, 
 give this game a go. It's lengthy and good for it's price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  First before I start, why is it Banjo is allowed to totally abandon his old gameplay and everyone 
 praises it as a "unique" and "innovative" attempt to add something new to the series but if Sonic 
 the Hedgehog tries to do anything accept run at mach 5, everyone yells and complains? Just wanted 
 to get that out of the way.
  
  The Banjo Kazooie games on the N64 were some of the best games of that era. The built on the concepts 
 that Mario 64 introduced and made for a deep and fun platforming experience. Of course no one plays 
 3D platformers anymore thanks to the Halo FPS epidemic that emerged at the beginning of the new 
 millenium and 90% of the platforming stars were killed off by this virus and another 5% were left 
 severely disabled (Crash, Spyro, Sonic) and it appears that Banjo also suffered the effects of 
 this virus as nearly all his signature moves are gone.
  
  I was never thrilled with Rare's move to Microsoft and it seems with each title, even the ones 
 that have been good like Viva Pinata, they have failed to replicate the commercial success of the 
 N64 and SNES days. Many say Rare is catering to an audience that doesn't exist on the 360. The 
 colorful, cartoony worlds of Rare just have a hard time fitting in with the dark, gritty worlds 
 of the 360's glut of online shoot em ups.
  
  Still after years when it was announced that Banjo would be returning, the old fans rejoiced. Despite 
 the fugly new look Rare gave him for the 360, the prospect of returning to spiral mountain was 
 exciting in a time when 3D platformers not based on kid's cartoons were far and few between.
  
  Then came the vehicle announcement and platforming fans like me felt their collective hearts 
 sink. Still remembering back to Zelda: Wind Waker I reminded myself that sometimes something that 
 can seem like a bad move can end up being good and tried to remain optimistic in that perhaps the 
 vehicles would be incorporated into the platforming and lead to a nice mix.
  
  Sadly, this is not true. As open minded as I tried to be in this game, the total 180 degree shift 
 from platforming to vehicle building never felt right to me. Building the vehicles is a long and 
 drawn out process despite the streamlined menu. I'm not an engineer and for me, trying to figure 
 out how to build a working car felt like a mindless chore and all too often I built something that 
 didn't work and had to go back over and over again to make something that worked and by the time 
 I found something that worked, the missions themselves felt so short and repetitive that it just 
 didn't keep me in the game.
  
  The cars handle dodgedly at times and the driving missions are timed and mostly consist of shooting, 
 racing or gathering. Banjo can get out of the car and explore on foot but all he can do is a single 
 jump and an attack. Kazooie doesn't seem to do much at all which makes me wonder why she's even 
 here at all.
  
  The graphics are nice despite Banjo's fugly makeover and it does capture the look and atmosphere 
 of a Banjo game but the whole time I just found myself wanting to play a platformer. I found myself 
 wanting to play as Sonic the werehog instead. Yeah, I'd rather play as a clunky, werehog than a 
 bear in a clunky car because at least the werehog is platforming.
  
  This game would've been better had they not used Banjo but instead used a new character but obviously 
 Rare needed to have a game that might actually sell so the hope was to slap Banjo's mug on the 
 game to help push a few units, but it's hard to recomend it to anyone. The vehicle building is 
 too complicated for kids. Banjo fans will be upset that it's not a platformer and most Xbox owners 
 are adult males between the ages 15-35 who would probably rather be playing the blood soaked Fallout 
 3, Gears of War 2 or Fable 2. If you like building cars and are a niche Xbox fan who doesn't like 
 shooters, then it might be a nice change of pace.
  
  Rare, please. Stop trying to "reinvent" franchises and just give people want they want: familiar 
 sequels to games we once loved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's just personal taste, but I think we may be living in the golden age of 3-D platforming. 
 The generation kicked off with the incredible Super Mario Galaxy which set the bar unbelievably 
 high with it's stunning visuals and top notch level designs. Later followed the cool and quircky 
 LittleBigPlanet that put an emphasis style and creativity. Now we have Banjo-Kazooie Nuts and Bolts 
 and it just may be the best of the bunch. 
  
  B-K is kind of a mix of Galaxy and Big Planet (and noticibly the only one without a space theme) 
 combining the colorful visuals and open ended level designs of Galaxy with the cusomization and 
 creativity of LittleBigPlanet. And like I said, having extensivly played all three, it just might 
 be my favorite. B-K puts less emphasis on collecting as the other Banjo titles did, and in fact 
 makes fun of this extensivly. The game has a great sense of humor (as all the banjo games do) and 
 is in many ways a self-parody. The dialogue is text based which I'm usually fine with, but the 
 text is just unnecesarily small which is my only complaint with the game seeing as how the writing 
 is so good.
  
  This game is unlike any you've ever played before, but it still feels very much like a Banjo Kazooie 
 game. Most of the challenges will have you making vehicles to complete them. And simple little 
 cars simply won't do. In one challenge you'll have to make a car that can push gigantic soccer 
 balls into a goal within a certain amount of time. The challenge I had the most trouble with was 
 a long-jump compitition. Your engine would stop once you got airborne so I could'nt just make a 
 plane. Instead, I decided to make a round car that would roll a lot after it hit the ground. While 
 it sometimes can be time consuming to make your vehicles perfect, I always had a blast doing it 
 and you are always greatly rewarded for your creativity. I enjoy games that reward you for your 
 creativity so I found this game incredibly addicting. So addicting in fact that I stayed up till 
 3:00 am playing it- two nights in a row!
  
  Banjo Kazooie is the most fun I've had playing a game since, well, ever. I'm a fan of Zelda, Metroid, 
 Mario, not really games that force you to spend a lot of time building things. However this game 
 really turned me around. The building system is robust and intuitive, making it easy to use but 
 tough to master. I'm not sure if it's better than it's predicessor, Banjo-Tooie, but it's most 
 certainly as good and THE essential platformer on the X360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethrussell
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  It took about 2 - 3 hours for me to really get it, since it starts out pretty basic and simple, 
 but now I'm totally hooked. The game is awesome. Some people dog it because its not a platformer. 
 This game is innovative and well done. I've spent over 20 hours on it so far and I'm probably 3/4 
 the way through it. It has a great replay value since you can customize and build your own vehicles 
 (motorcycles, airplanes, jets, cars, boats, submarines, hovercrafts, bicycles, trailers) each with 
 a ton of parts and gadgets that really impressed me (guns, cannons, lazers, bombs, ball and chain, 
 e. m. p., turrets, gyro, springs, flamethrower, freeze cannon, spoilers, homing missles, armor, etc. 
 Way too many parts and gadgets, weapons to list. Dont know why this game was rated by some at a 
 7. I'm a pretty picky gamer and am very pleased with this game. Well worth the $40 bucks. Would 
 pay $60 for it if i had too. Check it out and see for yourself. You've got to atleast rent it since 
 the demo doesnt do it justice at all. Good job RARE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhoffnee1985
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  I tried the demo of this on Xbox Live and basically thought - Beh! But then, I looked around online 
 and read that yes, it's not a platformer!! I tried the demo again with an open mind this time and 
 had loads of fun!
  
  Obviously, I then went and bought it!
  
  I must say, I think it is one of the best games on the Xbox 360!! The amount of joy I've had making 
 weird contraptions to do quests. It rewards you for using your imagination. If you're stuck on 
 a quest, chances are there's a simple way to do it, and when you find that out it's truly "lightbulb 
 appearing above head" stuff!
  
  I tried both Banjo games on N64 and thought they were good. BUT! I think this is better!! It's 
 a truly original game and anyone who bashes it because it's not Banjo Tooie with more levels, really 
 should stop being so pompous and try it with an open mind.
  
  If you are looking for a fun game then give this a go! 
  
  And yes, it's not a platformer... 
 Get over it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orravann
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Awesome game overall, great comeback 10 years after but I miss all the moves Kazzoie had like running 
 with banjo on his back or flying, now hes useless. when i saw the first teaser trailer where banjo 
 uses kazzoie as a "chainsaw" to open the door thought that was pretty cool to use on the game but 
 now that the game came out I found out that you only see kazooie when you need to use the wrench...
 
  I like how they kept the humor on the game like on the previous games. If you're a fan of the 
 first one and second one definately get it. There is just a lot to do in this game like on the 
 first ones, collecting music notes, jiggis, jinjos and now building vehicles and collecting crates 
 with vehicle parts...
  Great job Rare, i hope this is not the end of the franchise and theres more banjo in the future... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeK47
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Saying this game is underappreciated is an understatement. I don't see why people are not oogling 
 over this game. 
  
  To start this game is only $40 and that should make everyone happy for obvious reasons.
  
  
 Also, this is a beautiful game. Rare has a talent to make gameworlds with full and vibrant colors. 
 This game is no exception. If any of you have played Viva Pinata (either one) you know what kind 
 of beuty I am talking about, but think of having a much bigger world to see all those colors in 
 instead of your garden.
  
  Now onto the gameplay. This is no traditional banjo game and that is obvious. The emphasis has 
 been put on vehichle creation, and the creation system is simpple enough for anyone to understand 
 and has a wide variety of parts and strategies to keep you occupied for hours just making vehichles. 
 Personally I love to make flying vehichles. I am not sure why it just seems more fulfilling. 
 
  
  This also brings up something else about the game, strategy. There are numerous ways to complete 
 tasks, since there are numerous types of vehichles to be made. For example, if you need to move 
 three seering hot boulders into water. You can either make a cart to carry them away, a helicopter 
 to airlift them, or some sort of ram to push them into the water. There are many objectives with 
 many ways to go about them.
  
  The main hub city you reside in, Showdown Town, also has different obstacles to overcome. There 
 will be roofs and ledges that are hard to reach and you will have to find a way to get higher. 
 This is much harder there because you can only use what seems to be a shopping cart with an engine 
 attatched.
  
  The story has classic banjo banter and wit. Rare will constantly be making fun of themselves which 
 is always good. The main storyline however has you being brought to a new gameworld by L. O. G. 
 ,The Lord of Games, and you must collect jiggies, how original.
  
  The only reason I can not give this game a 10 is because some of the physics are off. While the 
 physics in the game are somewhat realistic there are just a couple of problems. First if I have 
 made an aircraft it seems to take forever to fall. I could glide for a very long time. There are 
 other small things like that such as I can make a vehichle that floats in air but not in water. 
 Just wierd.
  
  To sum it all up this is a great game for only $40 dollars. I think every gamer should go out and 
 get this game now. Just remember to call in first because they may be out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Lee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The Banjo-Kazooie series is my favorite series of all time. BK just blew my mind and i have so 
 many great memories of me and my father playing it together. Then came Tooie and the same thing 
 happened. Just incredible games. about 10 years later, we have BK: NaB. When i first saw the trailer, 
 my heart stopped. I was like what has happened to BK!?! My heart sunk and i was depressed. then 
 came more videos and i realized that this game looks like a lot of fun. became super excited for 
 it, pre-ordered it, and here we are today. The game blew me away when i first started. Nutty acres 
 was a sight for sore eyes. Man, it was great. Showdown has the platforming bits and its all good 
 there. I have about 40 jiggys in the bank right now and i cant stop playing it. Me and my brother 
 just have a blast making all sorts of stupid vehicles like a flying couch or toilet. The game is 
 also laugh out loud funny if your a fan of the series. I have lawled a lot in this game. The game 
 is just incredible. Gripes? i have some. #1 some of the challenges are just stupid or boring, but 
 that's rare. #2 The vehicle editor takes some time to master. Prepare to be frustrated when trying 
 to perfect a vehicle. Thats it. I cant stop playing the game, and i don't think i will stop till 
 a long time. Fans-Must have. Newcomers- Get this and the first 2. One of the best series ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_McTeabag
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'll say that I loved the old Banjo Kazooie games. They were among my favorite games 
 on the N64 and among my favorite ever. They were my favorites because I played them when I was 
 so young, about 6-7. A lot of fun little memories.
  
  Now that that's out of the way, Banjo Kazooie feels very nostalgic. It brings up a lot of things 
 I had forgotten about. Reminds me of all the old characters but it brings them back in all their 
 HD glory. Nuts and Bolts offers a very unique universe with very unique characters. Not many, if 
 any, games will speak with jibberish and be translated with text. Very old school and I'm glad 
 they kept it this way. If you haven't played the old Banjo games Nuts and Bolts will still give 
 you a fun experience.
  
  The gameplay has changed A LOT, almost too much some would say. I was skeptical when I first heard 
 that it would revolve around creating vehicles for challenges. I thought they were going to ruin 
 the franchise in a lame spin-off. Then I heard that if you pre-order Nuts and Bolts you recieve 
 the old Banjo for free, all for 40 dollars. I thought it was a great deal and preordered it on 
 the spot. You can still get the old Banjo but you'll have to pay 10 bucks or so to get it. (you 
 should get it)
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - It's a love it or hate it. Sorry to say, not everyone will enjoy it. 
  
  - Platforming still 
 exists, just sort of on the side.
  
  - Vehicle creation is very fun. I've created some crazy things and I don't even have half the parts 
 yet. If you like to create things, like little big planet, then Nuts and Bolts gives you a hefty 
 pallet to go wild with. You can build anything from trucks, to motorcycles, to helicopters, to 
 jets, or anything in between. I've even tried a combination of a jet and motorcycle once, took 
 some time, but it was incredibly fun to drive. Then you can add accessories and such to really 
 pimp out your ride.
  
  - Collecting is a main goal. Meaning that you must collect various items if you want to progress 
 through the game and get some cool perks and parts. It's always fun to pick up a crate and bring 
 it back to Mumbo (the old witch doctor is now a mechanic and will help you build vehicles) , then 
 find out what was inside the crate you carried back.
  
  - Unfortunately the special moves with Kazooie are gone. Not even a Talon Trot exists. However, 
 he/she's got some cool abilities with the new magical wrench. Picking up random objects and placing 
 them where you wish. I once knocked down a house into pieces, then picked up the pieces and put 
 them into my vehicle. I flew up as high as possible and dumped them all from the sky, about 1,000 
 feet up. Which brings me to the next gameplay aspect.
  
  - HUGE ENVIRONMENTS. Never has Banjo been so free to roam. These worlds are huge and you can spend 
 a lot of time just exploring around them. I once looked tirelessly for wings just so I could fly 
 to the top of a world to see all of it in one view.
  
  Gameplay gets a 8/10...
  
  Graphics and Presentation:
  
  - INCREDIBLE! So much detail. Everything seems fabricated. It 
 all has a unique style I've never seen before. So much eye candy and the frame rate has never dropped 
 for me. With such huge worlds detailed so much, it's hard to find a game that looks like as much 
 effort was put into it as this game. (believe me, I've played Gears 1 and 2 to death and it's hard 
 to put one over the other)
  
  - Physics are great and cartoony, just as the should be for a game like this. Put 2 engines on, 
 you'll go faster. Put more weight on one side of the vehicle and it will veer to that side. Pick 
 up a crab walking by a beach with Kazooie's wrench and throw him in the water, you'll see stars 
 circling around its head. The physics are REALLY fun to play with.
  
  Graphics and Presentation get a 10/10, seriously folks. It looks great especially on a huge HD 
 TV. One thing I should note though, some people have trouble reading the text on a standard definition 
 TV. I haven't had any trouble though.
  
  Story and Writing:
  
  Story is okay. It's really funny to see Banjo and Kazooie lazing around at the beginning. The story 
 is just something to keep the game going instead of the gameplay being something to keep the story 
 going. It gets the job done and introduces some nice new characters along the way. The only reason 
 I'll rate the story higher than a 5 is because the writing is usually pretty funny and keeps you 
 interested. The game likes to poke fun at itself and its producers. Funny game indeed. It has the 
 charm you'd expect from a Banjo/Rare game.
  
  8/10
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Overall BK: NB is a very fun game for everyone. I wouldn't recommend it for younger kids because 
 it may be too overwhelming. However for those who like an old charming kind of game I definitely 
 suggest you at least rent this. Rare took a huge chance by going this route and I think they've 
 somewhat succeeded. I was a fan that took a chance by buying this game and I'm satisfied because 
 it has tremendous replay value, whereas your traditional platformers have a very low replay value. 
 I do think that they should make a Banjo Threeie and leave this Banjo as its own game with no sequel. 
 I have a feeling they'll bring back traditional platforming with the old school gameplay but bump 
 it up with new graphics and physics. This is, in my opinion, going to be a classic for some people 
 but a disaster for others.
  
  This game gets a 9/10 for going where no other games have. Very interesting game, check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  As someone who used to play Banjo Kazooie on the Nintendo 64 for hours on end, I was eagerly anticipating 
 their inevitable debut on the 360. Nuts and Bolts continues the wacky adventures of the bear-bird 
 duo, and takes it along a surprising gameplay path that introduces a new way of playing it. Or 
 should I say.... building it.
  
  The platforming of the previous games is still there, more or less, but the game emphasizes heavily 
 on vehicular experimentation and challenges in different "game worlds". In other words, you are 
 required to build machines that best suit the specific challenges that are asked of you. Our heroes 
 begin their journey in Showdown Town -- the game's central hub of operations. From there, you can 
 collect musical notes that are used as currency, find crates that contain various parts for vehicle 
 building, and unravel some interesting secrets. To get Jigsaw Puzzles, or Jiggies, you earn them 
 by completing vehicular challenges within a pre-determined time limit, return to Showdown Town, 
 dispense your Jiggy earnings from a machine, and toss them in the depository located in the Town 
 Square. The more of these you earn, the more stuff you will unlock -- like new worlds and new upgrades 
 to your in-town Trolley that allow you to bypass specific obstacles so that you may explore even 
 more of what the city has to offer.
  
  Building vehicles may take a little getting used to, but it can be quite fun. It's more or less 
 trial-and-error, but at the very least, you can testrun your creations in Mumbo's Test-o-Track 
 to determine whether or not it needs more tweaking. Plus, vehicle possibilities are almost endless. 
 You're only limited to your imagination, but keep in mind that certain components are needed to 
 get the thing running and functional and, depending on the size of your machines, you will have 
 to consider some necessary adjustments. For example, if you build a huge tank, you'd have to include 
 more fuel tanks and a bigger engine. For airplanes, you need a propeller and a pair of wings, and 
 so forth. But this isn't anything you can't handle. Once you get the hang of the science as a whole, 
 you'll get the gist of it in no time split. You can even share blueprints and pit your creations 
 against other people online through XBox Live through competitions or cooperative tasks. 
  
  And, even if you're not into the whole vehicular building thing and don't want to bother with 
 the process, you can find blueprints for existing designs which can be bought by Mumba Wumba in 
 the Town Square or earned by satisfying specific objectives. Either way, the game doesn't discriminate 
 between those who like to build things and those who just want to play the game as is.
  
  The graphics have come a long way since their Nintendo 64 days. As you'd expect from a next-gen 
 system like the XBox 360, the environments are absolutely gorgeous. The lighting is dead on, and 
 Showdown Town is beautifully constructed -- and quite large, too. Even though it's merely a town, 
 it can be mistaken for a game world. And rightly so, too -- for there are musical notes and parts 
 crates to locate and find. At any rate, Banjo and everyone else are rendered quite nicely. Although 
 the bear and the bird have undergone a dramatic facelift from their N64 days, they still look just 
 as charming as they did when they were on a cartridge. 
  
  My only complaint with Nuts and Bolts is the fact that the traditional gameplay that I enjoyed 
 throughout the Banjo Kazooie franchise is somewhat eschewed by the emphasis on the vehicles. I 
 don't have a problem with the vehicular challenges -- I think they're wonderful. But one of the main 
 reasons why I loved Banjo Kazooie was the traditional platforming elements. You still have it to 
 some degree here in Nuts and Bolts, but the game worlds seemed designed specifically to cater to 
 vehicles. Which is fine, of course -- it's fun to drive around in those worlds. It might have been 
 nice if some levels catered specifically to Banjo on foot rather than Banjo in a car or a tank, 
 but that's just me. Still, this minor complaint does not deter me from complete enjoyment.
  
  Overall, this is a very fun and rewarding game. It's somewhat different from the previous entries, 
 but the charm is still there. Whether you're a Banjo fan, or someone looking for a good gaming 
 experience, Nuts and Bolts is a wonderful addition to your 360 library.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xykeb_the_Freak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  I see this as the "Adventure of Link" of the Banjo-Kazooie series. It was an ambitious experiment 
 with a new gameplay formula, and it worked to a certain extent, but it's so different from the 
 rest of the series' gameplay, you have to wonder why they chose this series to use it on. Some 
 people will love it, some people will hate it, and some people, like me, will appreciate and enjoy 
 what they did, but will hope that they go back to the old gameplay. 
  
  This game is fun and creative, but it isn't really Banjo-Kazooie. And it's not just the gameplay. 
 The characters look and act far different from their original designs. The "good" graphics cause 
 it to lose charm and nostalgia. Other than Spiral Mountain, the world does not tie into the other 
 games, which also loses nostalgia, as well as an overall sense of familiarity. 
  
  On its own, however (which is to say, ignoring the fact that it is part of the Banjo-Kazooie series) , 
 the game is addictive and fun, with a focus on creativity and customization, both of which I encourage 
 in games. The Lord of Games is an interesting and engaging new character, and Pikelet and his police 
 force are entertaining, to say the least. As previously mentioned, the old characters don't act 
 the way they used to, but the personalities they're given match the roles they play in the game. 
 
  
  So creating and using the vehicles is fun. The minigames you're supposed to use them in, however, 
 are not. Some are fun, I'll admit, but many of them are frustratingly hard (well, hard to get the 
 TT Trophy for - I'm a perfectionist, so that's always what I shoot for) and not always very well-thought-out. 
 The world, rather than being expansive and fun to explore, is confusing and makes it that much 
 harder to find the place I want to find. The plot isn't very deep or interesting, which kind of 
 bogs down the game.
  
  Overall, the game has ups and downs. Sometimes I really have fun with it, and sometimes I find 
 myself extremely frustrated. The game is worth it if you enjoy the kind of thing it focuses one; 
 otherwise, you'll find it to be a horrible mess. The one thing I can say is that if you're buying 
 it just because it's a Banjo-Kazooie game, consider whether or not you're really going to enjoy 
 it first. It's not like the other games in the series, so don't think you'll like it just because 
 you liked the other games. On the other hand, don't NOT try it just because it's not like the other 
 games. I'd recommend renting it first if you're not sure. Anyway, the bottom line is that it's 
 a great game, but they chose a bad series to put it in (as in, the choice was bad, not the series) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyfatman021
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, let me say that I was skeptical when I heard about the game being centered 
 on vehicles, but after quite a bit of playing I can honestly, and without apology, say that I was 
 wrong. I don't know if I would call it the best in the series, but it is in no way inferior to 
 the first two titles. 
  
  The first thing to catch my attention from the first time I started playing was the graphics. They 
 are top-notch in my book. From the character models of... well, everyone, to the wonderfully manufactured 
 environments, this game is a wonder to behold. Now, to the vehicles. 
  
  As I said before, I was skeptical, but I now see that the vehicles fit perfectly into this new 
 world Rare has created. The various worlds in the game are so huge that it would be impractical 
 to traverse them solely on foot, so the vehicles provide a way to travel in less time than it would 
 take to run, and the vehicle creator is just as fun as it is robust. I know this is quickly becoming 
 a clich (if it isn't already) , but it's true that the kinds of vehicles you can make are limited 
 only by your imagination. It is, for all intents and purposes, limitless. 
  
  The Jiggy challenges can be a little repetitive (fetch this item, bring it to a specified location; 
 or participate in a race) , but they never get boring, so I won't count that against it. However, 
 some of them can be very difficult; borderline sadistic. 
  
  My only complaint with this game is bigger than minor, but not enough to completely ruin the game 
 for me: that is that the land vehicles will sometimes, randomly and without provocation, spin out 
 of control, thus ruining a perfect run. Maybe it's just me, and I suck at steering, but that's 
 my minor-major complaint. Also, when you run into someone in a race, your vehicles tend to hook 
 onto one another, causing you (not the other character) to spin out. It seems a kind of cheap to 
 me. 
  
  Aside from those minor frustrations, this game is a joy to play, and an all-around good time. It's 
 been eight years coming, and it's finally here, and it was certainly worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deevvon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the new Banjo Kazooie game being 80% vehicle play, I sort of lost hope 
 for it. When I bought it earlier today for $40.00 ($20 lower than any other new games) I was quite 
 impressed. It's fun building vehicles and doing all sorts of fun Jiggie missions. I do miss the 
 old Banjo Tooie days, I've been waiting for this sequel for over 7 years, but it's awesome that 
 Rare has taken a new road (just this once I guess) on their incredible games. They've grown bored 
 of the same old platforming I guess... maybe they should create a sequel to my favorite game of 
 all time (Hint: C__k_r) . Bottom line, this wasn't a disappointing sequel for me, it was for most 
 but leave me excluded from that group.
  
  Rare, Kudos to you. Now get that sequel going (C_n__r)
  
  
  Now it's time for some senseless 
 space waste...
  
  Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware 
 Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware 
 Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware 
 Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware Rareware 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopezlui
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a major dissapointment nothing like the previous banjo kazooie's... sure.. i had read 
 the previews which said 80 percent vehicles but man.. never thought that this was game was going 
 to be so off compared to the other ones... the others were smash hits... this new one deserves to 
 get smashed..!!!.. this game sucks... cant wait till banjo kazooie come out on live arcade... but 
 this new one totally sucks..!!!.. seriously rare lost it.. what were they thinking. i mean.. u just 
 cant come out wit something like this after theres already a fan base on that game.. it should 
 be against the rules or something.. cars..??? serioulsy... i am so mad right now because i was 
 one of the biggest banjo fans when this game came out back in 1998.. and now that its coming back... 
 its this..??. what happened to all that good stuff.. finding jiggies.. i want to do that instead 
 of racing..!! wow... truly dissapointing.. really it is..!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  I have to say I was a bit disapointed when Rare was bought by microsoft. But the X Box juggernauts 
 were trying to tap the younger crowd that the console seems to have alienated. That's fine seeing 
 that most people that play games are in their teens and twenties. But never the less it was a good 
 idea. Rare brought many of their idea that brought good quality titles to the N64 back in those 
 dark days. So naturally I figured that quality would carry over to the X Box. I was wrong. Rare's 
 quality in my opinion has been lowered, forcing them to create lack luster sequels, port dumbed 
 down versions of prior games, attempt to create new franchises, and then re-boot old franchises 
 a new. Unfortunatly Banjo-Kazooie Nuts and Bolts falls into the last catagorie. 
  
  Nuts and bolts took a lot of the things that Nintendo has been critized for and caries it over 
 to the X Box. The graphics, while colorful, are worth nothing on a regular TV. 1080 is the way 
 this game should be played. In these economicaly stressful times, the idea of going out and buying 
 a new TV to play just one game, may turn off a lot of players. With out the HD you get drab graphics, 
 jaggies, hickups, and blurring. While the Wii has attempted to prove that graphics don't always 
 matter, the way something looks has always made humans pass their first judgement on the game. 
 Which brings me to my next issue with the presentation. There are no voice overs that you can understand. 
 They are the usual grunts, sighs, and chirping that came from the first games. This is annoying 
 at best, but what makes it worse is that since the words are all typed, it is very small print, 
 thus difficult to read for most of us "old timers". This not only effected the plot, but the way 
 you put things together. If that doesn't turn you off, this might. 
  
  The idea behind Nuts and bolts is to create vehicles that get you from point A to point B. Well 
 that is all well and good because you can create some pretty interesting vehicles, but aside from 
 having difficulty reading the print, you are also timed while creating these vehicles. Which makes 
 a lot of these things a trial and error basis. That was great back in the NES days, but this is 
 2k8, we've moved on. This frustrated this gamer even further. 
  
  The controls are ok to handle, they are pretty easy to pick up and play since the game is geared 
 toward the more casual or younger player. The game still cow tows to the "run and fetch" style 
 of the first one to some degree. Of course the plot is pretty much the same as the prior games, 
 so don't expect much difference there. 
  
  All in all Banjo-Kazooie Nuts and Bolts can be summed up in one word: frustrating. Over the years 
 of my gaming I have come to expect a certain degree of frustration in some games, a certain level 
 of efficency in the presentation of the sights, sounds, and controls. Banjo-Kazooie doesn't bring 
 that to the table. It uses dated ideas for minigames of putting this together to staple a thing 
 plot together, while making it as difficult as possible for the gamer to enjoy the game through 
 inefficent visuals, poor sound quality, and timed play controls. 
  
  The apple has fallen from from the tree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zullos5
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts is fun, addictive, and lets you make the vehicles right for you. Once 
 you have gotten past your first fight with Gruntilda, you gain access to almost all of Showdown 
 Town. Though out the town there are boxes with parts in them which you take to Mumbo Jumbo. Once 
 you get enough pieces for the gears in your mined to turn, the real fun of the game begins.
  
  You get so many different pieces like propellers, detachers, springs, spikes, wings, sinkers, 
 floaters, and even a self destruct bomb! With so many parts, the types of transports you can make 
 virtually never end. The Jiggy Challenges in the game are not too hard if you make the right vehicles 
 for the challenge. If there's a race, make or load up a cart with multiple engines and fuel tanks 
 and win 1st place. If there's a dog fight in the sky, make a plain or helicopter with egg, grenade, 
 fire, and ice guns and kick some... well you know. With Xbox live play show off you vehicles to 
 your friends in the Test-O-Track. They'll either be amazed, take pity, or laugh. Fight you friends 
 in fun challenges, or meet new people to take on.
  
  The music is great if you played the original games. You get a sense of nostalgia hearing you many 
 of the original tunes in orchestra format.
  
  There are a few problems though. One being the small text. Unless you have an HDTV you may or may 
 not have a hard time reading the dialog of the characters. In one level, the Logbox 720 level, 
 it's a bit hard to move around with an aircraft. Also, it steps a little away for the original 
 concept of running around and collecting Jiggys found lying around and from helping people, but 
 at the same time it's kind of the same. This time you play mini games to get a Jiggy stored in 
 the banks around Showdown Town. The new concept does feel off a little but it grows on you.
  
  All and all, this gamer rates Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts online play, creativity, and nostalgic 
 feel a 10 out of 10. A must for all the original Banjo fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  First this game is made by Rare, one of the most creative developers in the business. They need 
 to bring back Conker's Bad Fur Day. That being said this game has always been a favorite of mine. 
 This game is just fun to play. It won't blow you away with visuals though the cartoon look is amazing 
 and it is doing what it is supposed to do. It is supposed to give you a good time while playing 
 a game. The multiplayer is surprisingly fun and addictive. This game has had my attention since 
 its announcement. I have been playing this game quite a bit too and I have all of the games that 
 came out this holiday season for the 360. It is a huge hit with my kids too. They don't miss their 
 Wii either as this game has given them lots of entertainment. Surprisingly it also entertains myself 
 as well and I have been gaming since the early 80's. The gameplay is really good and the graphics 
 I said before are like you are in a cartoon. I especially like running over the characters in town. 
 I think its funny to see what they say. I also really enjoy building my own vehicle creations. 
 I havent built a flying vehicle yet but that is next. All in all the game is a lot of fun and really 
 worth the $39 price tag. It is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildantixcharly
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  After spending a few hours with this new banjo adventure, it is clear that Rare has gone in a bad 
 direction. Like many people who will buy this game, i am a huge fan of the original banjo, and 
 i was expecting that same greatness that made the original the best platform ever. But boy was 
 i disappointed. Heres the game, you go into each game world, doing a number of challenges for high 
 scores or races or just something that involves your vehicle. It gets so tedious and boring that 
 you just want to call Rare and complain. Yes, building your own remarkable or not so remarkable 
 vehicle can be fun for those who enjoy it, but you will spend more time doing so than actually 
 running around adventuring. I reserved my copy therefore i got the original Banjo for free on xbox 
 live and i'll tell you, i've been playing that non stop and i really got bored with Nuts and Bolts. 
 My only satisfaction in Nuts and Bolts is 3 things, the graphics are amazing, the sound is amazing, 
 and the adventuring in Showdown Town (the main town square-like level) is reminiscent of the old 
 banjo. But, a huge disappointment is this game. If you enjoy creating different vehicles just to 
 do the same kinds of challenges over and over again on different worlds, then by any means, you 
 will love this game. but for the rest of us who were looking for something more along the lines 
 of the original, well, prepare to return this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  The game is has two the best character ever created with all jokes and sarcasm that come with them 
 still intact. I bought this game because I been waiting a long time for a new BK plus u get the 
 original free all for 40 dollars thats an absolute steal. (If u didnt preorder i would just ask 
 the gamestop ppl they usually always have extras) This game isnt your old banjo but a lot of the 
 old memories come to mind in this game. I played the demo and it was ok not excellent but fun. 
 Now I have the game I am more than satisfied with my purchase. The game has over 130 jiggies it 
 will take u a long time to beat this game just like a banjo game should be plus xbox achievements 
 and each world also has over 10 jingo challenges. It takes practice and time to complete just like 
 the originals. 
  
  If u played the demo at saw how the door open up with jiggy number on top you think yeah cool a 
 good amount of door for all the worlds. Come to find out that all those doors in that area was 
 just for one world in the real game. All worlds have like 5 or more acts in them where u collect 
 about 20 jiggies per world. Also that the world in the demo isnt even right there in the real game. 
 And when u finally get to that world the jiggies quests come in a different order and in different 
 acts. The game has a lot of content and is pure gorgeous. Six world in all supposedly. Never know 
 that might not be counting a last world with Grunty. Plus this game has a lot of extra stuff. An 
 arcade, a gym for banjo kazooie to learn new moves, mumbo car shop where u build and return crates 
 with new parts thats are found at different place all over town, humba who has a stand where she 
 sells blueprints, and alot of other places to go around town. Showdown town is pretty good size 
 for sure. Everything isnt accessible right from the start. Also with so many jiggies coming from 
 one world. The game very much let u unlock some more worlds pretty easily it wants u to go back 
 and forth between worlds doing the different acts in the worlds. Works out really great so u dont 
 be in a world to long and appreciate each world when u come back to it.
  
  Gameplay. At first a little easy but still kinda fun. But some reason u cant stop playing. Next 
 thing u know its getting tougher and u never thought u could do so much with freakn vehicles. Finally 
 u start creating your own vehicles for the challenges that come that u feel like the blueprint 
 vehicles just want cut it like u want them to to get the trophy from that challenge. It works like 
 this to get a jiggy u do a challenge that u have complete depending how fast or how good u do it. 
 The rewards go in this order: notes (which is used as money to buy parts and various thing) , a 
 jiggy, and a tt trophy which is the best u can get. Basically if u do real good u can get the trophy 
 which mean u get all the reward that below it too the jiggy and the notes all in one go. If u cant 
 get the trophy u can always come back and get it maybe when u got better skill or a better vehicle 
 lucky the jiggies are usually a lot easier to get then the trophies. Its not ur old platformer 
 but I can assure u for most people it will become a very good and addictive game. You will still 
 miss ur old banjo but still playing this all at the same time never knowing what they going to 
 throw at u next. Once u build that first ride that just rides right and looks supercool to u. Mine 
 was this motorcycle i made that drives so good and has 3 engines on it, i painted looks great, 
 to top it off i put some guns on the front. I pretty much ride it in worlds now as my main land 
 vehicle. When im not flying my helicopter or wide the waves in my boat. A lot of the challenges 
 have a lot different ways u can complete them. Also there is some platforming in the game it is 
 a mix but main emphasis is on the vehicles.
  
  The game still has that banjo kazooie charm that u come to love. The gameplay though new becomes 
 really fun and deep after a while. I really think like all banjos its a game that really wont stop 
 being fun to u that u come back to from time to time for a while that probably will be a classic 
 for u down the road. 40 bucks u cant beat it. Plus I wanted to support BK because if they we dont 
 would we have to wait another 8 years or never get another one. I still think it would really be 
 cool to have a new BK like the old days but I really learned to appreciate this BK game as well. 
 Im still getting Banjo Tooie when it comes out i never really got to play it im so happy they going 
 to bring it xbla early next year. But just like the other banjos it took ppl a while to really 
 appreciate how good it was and how challenging and fun the game can be. Especially with Mario 64 
 as competition. 
  
  If the demo was atleast somewhat fun to you I would definetly consider getting this game. If u 
 a true banjo fan even a mad one because its not ur classic I think u should bite ur tongue and 
 pick it up for 40 bucks. I give it a 9 right now I have only stopped playing to write this review 
 and I have every good game that has come out in the last few months on all systems and i still 
 think this is worth playing even with all the new games i got. 9 now 9.5 later if it keeps growing 
 on me like the original did. Hope this helped.
  
  Who knows maybe this is the start of something great for BK and us. Where we have finally have 
 to two type of games for them that are very good. Nuts and Bolts series and New versions of the 
 original platforming games. Both if you appreciate them for what they are will stay in your heart 
 forever as one of the best game u ever played. Probably better they this first so it would get 
 apprecitation. If we do get another BK original series Banjo Threeie i bet it will be times where 
 u wish u can get in that car or plane lol. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is somewhat underrated by critics, I think the game is really fun and while it doesn't 
 match the par of the originals, its still really great and should bring back memories of the originals. 
 Note: While the game is vehicle based, it hardly feels like a driving game at all, nor does it 
 feel like a platformer. It feels like a mixture of both, so dont expect either a driving game or 
 a heavy jumping based platformer when you get this. If you're a banjo fan, you need to get this. 
 The only way you'll really enjoy this is if you like it for what it is, instead of what it could've 
 been or what it isn't. And this is a great new fun banjo experience. I also like how there are 
 countless easter eggs relating to other rare games like conker, viva pinata, and the previous banjo 
 games scattered around the levels. I do think however that the characters shouldn't constantly 
 reference the fact that they know they're in a videogame. I dont mind when they do this, its just 
 that the characters in the game say stuff like: Hey did you use a cheat code? Or, the fans will 
 hate your square nose! or why do game characters nowadays have less charm than they used to? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  That's right world, the Bear and Bird Duo known as Banjo and Kazooie are back in action. Banjo-Kazooie: 
 Nuts & Bolts for the X-Box 360 is newest Banjo-Kazooie to come out in over 8 years. So what have 
 the Bird and Bear Duo doing since there last outing? Acting like Nerds by just Eating Pizza and 
 playing video games. Yes, they have been doing that for the last 8 years. When Grunty yet again 
 comes back, all she is is a head. Out of no where, someone called Lord of Games (Or A. K. A L. O. G) 
 comes, he makes Banjo and Grunty race. When the 2 have a ptitiful race, L. O. G attempts to settle 
 the conflict between the two by devising a series of worlds and challenges. He give Grunty a new 
 body, and restore Banjo and Kazooie's bodies back to there fit selfs and transports them to Showdown 
 Town and starts the contest. The winner would be set to own Spiral Mountain; the loser must endure 
 eternal hardship at L. O. G's video game factory. While Banjo and Kazooie seek to win by completing 
 the challenges, Grunty uses her powers and abilities to try and stop the duo. An army of mechanical 
 Gruntbots also assist the witch in her goal. The Story is typical a Banjo-Kazooie story. The Hummer 
 and Charm of the Original is still here and funny. But, It's all text Written, and it's either 
 that I have bad eye's, or the text can be hard to read since it's very small. It's not Dead Rising 
 small, but still hard to read. But still, the story is funny and entertaining. The Gameplay is 
 different from the original N64. All the moves and what not you use to learn are all gone. Instead, 
 you have the power to use vehicles. Yes, I said Vehicles. You can create them from scratch, or 
 buy Blue Prints so they can be made instantly. So may cry foul play, but it's an interesting way 
 to play. If I had any problem with this, It's that you have to add in the variables of things like 
 how wheels are spaced, the weight of the vehicle and so on, and due to this, this leads to a steep 
 learning curve. Once you get passed it, you get a fun and enjoyable game. There are tones of challenges 
 to do. There all enjoyable to do and like the original games, if you find a Challenge to hard for 
 you current stuff, you can come back later and use new stuff. Now While there are tones of them, 
 there could of been more verity. Find stuff and race's can get a bit boring. The game is said to 
 take 20 hours long, and that's a good length for me. The look of the game is incredible. This game 
 looks beautiful. The levels are colorful, character models look great and animate well, and this 
 game just looks great. The little voice clips can get a bit annoying for some, but, it's like a 
 tradition for the Series. Can you imagine what they would sound like if they had voices? No, not 
 really. The Sound effects are cartoony, but enjoyable, and the music is great and remasters a lot 
 of classic tunes we all know and love. Overall, Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts is a fun game. If 
 your a fan of the series, you will enjoy it. If your looking for a Unique game, look no further 
 than Nuts and Blots. The learning Curve does take a while to get pass, but it's still a fun experience. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
