-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield 2: Modern Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/battlefieldmoderncombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hotswapping adds a fun dynamic to the gameplay.
 Lots of vehicles and weapons to play around with.
 Varied campaign.
 24 player online multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Arcadey, shooting gallery-like feel.
 Vehicles don't control well.
 Friendly artificial intelligence isn't so great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 4,423 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Apr 11, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Underneath its shiny new coat of paint, Modern Combat for the Xbox 360 is still basically the same, 
 solid team-based shooter that was released last year on the Xbox and PlayStation 2. 

  It seems a little strange that Battlefield 2: Modern Combat should have the "2" in the title, given 
 that this is the first Battlefield game to make an appearance on consoles. The game also, unfortunately, 
 bears little resemblance to its superb namesake on the PC. While Modern Combat does offer some 
 amount of charm with its highly produced interludes and its slick unit-switching mechanism, ultimately 
 this multiplayer-focused military shooter falls short of its promise with design flaws in its campaign 
 and clunky vehicle handling. The obvious graphical enhancements for the Xbox 360 do add something 
 to the overall package, though.  

          Attack helicopters can dominate the landscape when flown by skilled pilots.     

  The 
 presentation is where Modern Combat has received the greatest attention in its transition from 
 the PlayStation 2 and the Xbox to the Xbox 360. Character models and vehicles exhibit a great amount 
 of detail, with full shadows and much sharper texturing all around. Other nice details include 
 persistent bullet-hole decals and spent cartridges. If you man a stationary machine gun for a while, 
 you can look down and see quite a pile of brass building up at your feet. The environments can 
 look a little sterile at times, though, and many of the buildings on a single-player map still 
 can't be explored. However, vehicle explosions are much more satisfying now, with fire and smoke 
 effects, as well as large chunks of metal that break off and disappear later via secondary explosions. 
 The weapon sounds seem about the same as the other versions of Modern Combat, which is to say, 
 decent but not totally remarkable. There is quite a bit of radio chatter during battle, too, but 
 it still tends to get very repetitive, and the voice acting for the Chinese side might be a shade 
 offensive, as most of it is delivered in English with a thick, Charlie Chan-style accent.  

  The plot base of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is something out of your standard, Clancy-esque 
 techno-thriller. Unrest in the Soviet state of Kazakhstan has sent a US-led, UN peacekeeping force 
 to the region in order to promote stability. However, the Chinese are a little nervous by this 
 show of force, and they have sent their own forces into the region in order to maintain their own 
 territorial interests. You'll switch back and forth between controlling the Americans and Chinese 
 throughout the game's 20-mission campaign. What's neat about the campaign structure is that between 
 missions you'll be treated to some fake news broadcasts from media outlets on both sides of the 
 war. It's rather amusing to see two conflicting accounts of the same battles that you've just fought, 
 which provokes the idea that nobody ever tells the whole truth in a wartime situation. The campaign 
 missions themselves are pretty varied, even if certain maps and areas get recycled a bit. You'll 
 drive tanks to capture and defend bases, fly out to investigate and destroy enemy cargo ships, 
 and fight in and around an oil platform, among other things. The maps in the game are of a decent 
 size and definitely give enough space to fight large-scale, combined-arms battles. The missions 
 don't take too long and aren't very difficult to beat, but beating them with a high rating can 
 be hard. The game encourages you to replay missions for rank, and earning a higher rank gets you 
 new weapons for the various classes in the game, as well as upgrades, such as a larger ammo capacity, 
 to existing weapons.  

          Infantry and vehicles combine for some serious mayhem in both single- and multiplayer. 
     

  The biggest problem with the missions in Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is that they feel too canned 
 and contrived, which doesn't fit the series. At least the spawning issue that plagued the other 
 versions of the game seems to have been addressed somewhat in this version of the game. Instead 
 of enemies popping out of nowhere, you'll often see them approach by boat, helicopter, or some 
 other vehicle. But at times, they still do pop in from thin air, which makes it somewhat difficult 
 to measure the flow of a mission. The more difficult missions in the campaign often require you 
 to memorize the sequence of scripted events, which will help you get the jump on the enemy. There's 
 little in the way of tactics or counter-strategies that you need to know, aside from choosing appropriate 
 unit counters for a given threat. The friendly artificial intelligence can also be frustrating 
 at times -- they never seem to take the lead in a battle, as they usually follow you very slowly 
 and there's no way to direct them anywhere. Also, they're not very effective at helping you out 
 and tend to waste a lot of ammo, which is a problem when you're switching back and forth between 
 allies.     

  Despite those concerns, the core gameplay in Modern Combat is still pretty good and offers its 
 own unique flavor, due in part to the ability to switch between any friendly unit on the fly. The 
 battles you fight are mostly combined-arms affairs, so you'll have a chance to drive and ride wheeled 
 vehicles, tanks, attack helicopters, and attack boats, among other things. If you want to switch 
 to another unit, simply aim at that soldier or vehicle, press a button to warp across the battlefield, 
 and then take control. This design conceit serves a few purposes. The most obvious one is that 
 it's the fastest way to "transport" yourself across the map to a hot spot that needs your attention. 
 Another use for it is to put yourself in control of the right unit for the job at hand. You may 
 be playing as a regular assault trooper as you hose down infantry, when a tank all of a sudden 
 pops up on the horizon. Using Modern Combat's hot-swapping feature, you can warp yourself into 
 the body of an RPG-wielding engineer, or one of your own tanks, to take on the new threat. The 
 hot swapping is the most fun aspect of the game, and the one that gives Modern Combat its unique 
 style, although it's worth noting that the zooming look of the hot-swap function gets old fast 
 and can be disorienting.  

  At the end of the day, the single-player aspect of Modern Combat just doesn't feel like a Battlefield 
 game. Sure there are all kinds of different vehicles to drive and different infantry classes to 
 master for different situations. But the vehicle control is pretty clunky, and the raw action of 
 firing weapons just feels limp and lacks impact. Whether you're shooting a rifle, a shotgun, or 
 even a tank cannon, there's just no sense of power in anything, which makes the game feel like 
 a shooting gallery. Movement and aiming feels extremely loose, and at times it seems as if the 
 bounding boxes for the character models are gigantic and are too forgiving of sloppy aim, although 
 this may be a blessing, given the poor weapon feel. Other gameplay contrivances contribute to the 
 arcade feel, such as the health, damage, rapid fire, and other character bonuses for racking up 
 kills in quick succession. The game even keeps score for you as you play through a mission, and 
 it encourages you to go on mad killing sprees to rack up score multipliers. You're graded on your 
 performance and awarded stars depending on how well you do racking up scores, switching between 
 your units, and completing a mission in time. Those who enjoy a straight-up arcade shooter will 
 appreciate all these aspects, but if you're a console-only player who wants a good idea of what 
 the fuss is all about with the PC Battlefield games, Modern Combat doesn't really have that similar 
 feel.  

          Modern Combat's graphics have been given a nice facelift for the Xbox 360.     

  The 
 game does support 24-player online multiplayer action on Xbox Live, offering 16 maps in either 
 capture-the-flag or conquest mode, where teams struggle to capture spawn points and force the opposing 
 team's ticket count down to zero. The hot-swap capability, which is the best part of the single-player 
 game, can't be used in multiplayer for obvious reasons. As far as the actual gameplay goes, multiplayer 
 Modern Combat plays pretty well, offering some fast-paced shooting action. The maps aren't particularly 
 large -- those who are used to the vastness of Battlefield 2's maps on the PC may find the fighting 
 fields in Modern Combat a little cramped. But they are large enough for 24 players, and there's 
 generally a good balance between infantry and vehicle combat. There are usually a lot of nice nooks 
 and hiding places for infantry to lurk or tall structures to climb up and snipe from or just get 
 a better view of the field. For those who like driving around, there are usually good avenues for 
 tank and vehicle traffic linking the major capture points. Choppers and boats are also available 
 on many of the maps.  

          Being the first of its kind on the Xbox 360 gives Modern Combat a little more appeal to 
 owners of the console.     

  That said, we did have a couple of quibbles with the multiplayer experience. One is that it might 
 be a little too easy to spot and track enemy players, because a red enemy dot appears over them 
 any time you close within visual range. There's also a tendency for many players to pick the overly 
 romanticized sniper class. Don't be surprised if you see too many people plinking away at each 
 other from long distance instead of actually capturing and holding locations, as people tend to 
 be enamored with upping their kill totals, as opposed to playing more of a team role and helping 
 win matches. Beyond that, Modern Combat offers some single-player challenge modes as another way 
 for you to pick up stars for ranking. These are simple minigames, such as weapons challenges, races 
 with various vehicles, or checkpoint challenges that are played using the hot-swap feature.  

 
  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is still very much the same game as its predecessors on the PS2 and 
 the Xbox. All the necessary elements are there to make a great shooter -- superficially at least -- like 
 infantry and vehicles together in large-scale, combined-arms battles. The hot-swap feature is also 
 really cool and an idea we hope will get expanded on should the console franchise continue on. 
 The primary difference with the Xbox 360 version is the upgraded visuals, which make for a sharper-looking 
 game. However, the shiny new veneer still can't hide what's missing in Modern Combat: the little 
 things that really made the Battlefield series so great in the first place, like getting the look, 
 feel, and sound of the weapons and vehicles just right. Despite those deficiencies, Modern Combat 
 is still probably worth a look, especially if you've never played a Battlefield game (or clone) 
 before.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (373 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kid23455
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:43 pm PT
Review:  okay, I haven't been playing this game for more than an hour, and I know this game SUCKS ASS! YOu 
 can't get past the f*cking third level, and the first two SUCK ASS. Dont buythis game, it F*CKING 
 SUCKS ASS! if you buy this game, you are spending 20 dollars on two levels, 10 buck per crappy 
 level, and dont even think, oh Ill be able to get past the third level, this kid just sucks, because 
 you wont. I guarantee it. That is the only problem, other than that, the graphics are solid, the 
 gameplay is solid, for as long as you can play two crappy levels. The only thing you can use this 
 piece of crap for is if you run out of toilet paper, and you can just grap the instruction manual 
 out of the box for a quick fix. Yes, i am just filling in space so gamespot will let me write this 
 review, this game cannot be played, for that is why I am writing this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyilmaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  I was reluctant to get it because BFBC sucks, didnt like modern combat for xbox (didnt have live 
 then) .
  
  PEOPLE are still playing on line- amazing online game
  
  If you liked BF2 BF2142, then GET THIS GAME
  
  You have to get it at Gamestop- for 18$ worth 
 it TOTALLY ( there not making it new anymore)
  
  Big field, conquest like BF2 alot of strategy 
  
  a top 5 game for 360 (with COD4 5)
  
 
  Waiting anxiously for BF 1943
  
  great game, loved it good good good good good good good Amazingamzingnedd 100 words 100 word words 
 199 199
  You can fly helicopters, drive cars, dirve tanks, And drive boats. There are a lot of varieties 
 of guns. Also, each vehicle, boat, and helicopter has weapons on it. it's also very fun in campaign 
 mode. You also get medals for different things so its a challenge to get medals and ribbons to 
 raise, your ranking. Enjoyed the campaign mode, but the stand out features of this game would be 
 the on line action. There are several good maps to choose from, and it's and easy why to bring 
 back the days of huge team battles. The multiplayer on this game is phenomenal. You can do anything 
 you can imagine more or less in this game online, and the maps are great. There are endless amounts 
 of military and civilian vehicles to command both on land, in the air, and on the water. Over 50 
 weapons can be used online. Whether you prefer a good firefight, a tank battle, an air battle, 
 a naval battle, or maybe calling in an airstrike on your enemy's base, you can do it all in BF2. 
 I recommend this game to anyone out to have a good time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowgamer12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, battlefield m c is a great game, with awsome graphics, but it could get a little 
 boring after a while. For starters there is'nt really a story. I checked everywhere to find a story 
 line. The box, the manul, everywhere! Second it doesn't tell you the controlls in the game! You either 
 look in the manul (which I lost the second day I got the game.) or just figure it out by yourself. so 
 that is a problem. Also if you ever learn the controlls you will say these four words "these controlls 
 are weird". Next all you pretty much do is kill people. Sure you could play some demolition missons 
 but there are only a few. The good part about the game is the graphics. They look like you are really 
 in a war. In a nutshell it's a okay game. I suggest you rent it first though. Like I said you basiclly 
 just shoot people. That is why i say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign is a fictional war between the NATO and China that takes place in Kazakhstan. 
 You fight for each nation back and forth until it becomes the time where you get to decide which 
 nation will be lead to victory. It is revealed that a terrorist group called Burning Flag is responsible 
 for misleading both NATO and China into starting the war. The war is officially over when one side 
 stops the Burning Flags leader, Commander 31, from launching a 3 nuclear ICBMs at the United States 
 and Europe.
  
  The Multiplayer Mode offers two game modes, Conquest and Capture the flag. Both of the modes support 
 a total of 24 players.
  
  In Conquest Mode the goal is to capture a majority of flags scattered across a fairly big map. 
 And capture the Flag is the same as any other Capture the Flag mode. You just have to collect a 
 certain amount of flags by bringing them back to your base for points.
  
  This is a fast game, almost no stopping especially if you want to get lots of the stars that you 
 can get for awards for completing a mission fast, without losing many teammates, and some other 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 modern combat is a game that was originally from the xbox but was ported to the xbox 
 360 with few improvements. So if you have played this game on the xbox, forget about this game 
 but those who are new to this series or havent play this game yet, get this game. Nevertheless, 
 this is a good game. One of the star features of this game is the ability to hotswap to another 
 of your squadmate. If you are dying or found out that one of your squadmate is in a better position, 
 you can hotswap to him by pressing X button. There are a few types of classes for your players, 
 example is a assault soldier or a sniper guy or whatever. You can hotswap to any of these classes 
 of this soldiers depending on the situation of the mission. If you have none of your squadmates 
 with you in the mission, let say because they died, you will have reinforcements coming at a specific 
 part of the mission. And mind you, the missions are long and are quite hard. If you die with none 
 of your squadmates alive, mission ends and you have to restart again. This brings to one of the 
 fustrating parts of the gme. Why are not there any checkpoints in the game? Missions are long and 
 if you die, you have to start it all over again. Imagine if you are about to complete the last 
 objective of a difficult and long mission but you suddenly died to a enemy shot and you have to 
 start the mission all over again after all your hard work. Fustrating, isn't it? And your squadmates 
 are really dumb. They will just go into the middle of the battlefield and get shot. Why cant they 
 just be intelligent enough by taking cover and shooting the enemies? It would be better that the 
 cover system is implemented in the game. Weapons are apenty in the game ranging from sniper rifles 
 to RPGs to grenade launchers to Knives to assault rifles. They sound great and look great. Character's 
 voices are delivered well but some of the characters usage of english are aweful in the game. Missions 
 design are quite good. However, some missions are really unforgivable as they are quite hard. Especially 
 the last mission where you have to stop a 2 missiles by detonating them in 10 minutes. I mean, 
 its easy to detonate them but the time is too little. I can only detonate one missile in about 
 7 minutes and i had probably 3 minutes to detonate the other missile. How am i going to do that? Impossible. 
 Another mission is where you have to defend your train station for 5 minutes and destroy a train 
 that is heading for your station with a bomb in it. I will have 3 mates stationed with a .50 cal 
 gun beside the track. When i shoot at the train, it took so long to deplete its life bar to half. 
 By that time, i had to restart the mission as it crashed at the station. After 5 or 6 tries, i 
 discovered that if i shoot at the engine, a lot of its life will go down. So i did that. After 
 the train passed by my 2nd mate, i hotswapped to the 3rd guy. By that time, the train had only 
 about a quarter of its life left. I quickly equipped my grenade launcher and shot a grenade at 
 the engine and BOOM, the train exploded. But i took so long to complete the mission. .Graphics 
 are quite well done although some the the mision's graphics looks like an xbox version. Visuals 
 are ok. 
  
  Nevertheless, this is a great game that has a few issues to be fixed. If you havent played this 
 game, by all means, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  The game is ok. Not the best but in truth you are getting a console version of Battlefield. I have 
 played alot of Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 2 so i guess i was expecting more than i bargined 
 for. I only hired it late after playing the likes of Halo 3 which leaves a huge gape for this to 
 furfill me as a shooter. The single player wasn't very fun and seems very generic, the multiplayer 
 was fair and i can see its lasting appeal to people. The guns a fun to shoot and playing around 
 with different classes is ok. But i honestly mould this in my mind around Battlefield 2 making 
 it seem half done for me. Now days the Modern combat has been taken to new grounds but such titles 
 like Call of Duty 4, Battlefield Bad Company and Tom Clancy games. So really a shooter. Its not 
 good nor bad.
  
  My suggestion would be if you want a good Modern combat with good multiplayer BUY COD 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier305
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  a must have for all xbox live gamers!!!... the single player mode is kinda boring and the story 
 doesnt really make sense, but the online play makes up for it in a really big way. you can fight 
 as an infantryman, in such roles as a sniper, machine gunner, special forces operative, combat 
 engineer, or just a plain rifleman. also you can play in vehicles such as tanks, hummers, bradleys, 
 dune buggies, helicopters, gun boats!!! the online battles are huge with up to 12 players per team!!! 
 and 12 differnt stages to play online!!! another great thing about this game is that its so cheap!!! 
 $20 bucks!!! compared to other newer games which range up all the way to $60!!!! this is truely 
 one of those games that are under the radar but are so totally worth it!!! I really recommend this 
 game to anyone that loves modern military shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 8.5/10
  +Everything sounds really good, no complaints.
  
  Music: 9.5/10
  +A moving 
 soundtrack that fits the action perfectly.
  
  Visual: 8.5/10
  +Slightly gritty look makes everything look great.
  +Explosions and lighting effects are beautiful.
 
  -A few graphical glitches may surface once in a while.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  +Hotswap feature is clever and unique.
  +The environments are huge and surprisingly 
 well designed and detailed.
  +The ability to level up adds a fresh RPG element.
  +Lots of challenges such as sniping and driving are fun.
  -Hotswaping can be quite frustrating 
 at times.
  -The missions get ridiculously difficult near the end.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  +One of the best team shooters out there.
  +Maps are possibly the best 
 I've ever seen.
  +Conquest mode is the same Battlefield classic you love.
  +All character classes and vehicles are well balanced, no overpowering abilities here.
  -Capture 
 The Flag is a bit disappointing.
  
  Story: 6.5/10
  +Interesting how you shift from one side to the other in the middle of the campaign to see both 
 sides of the war.
  -Not too original and somewhat cheesy.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcjunky25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I was hopelessly addicted to the multiplayer in this game for a long time. This game was not designed 
 for single player, although there is a single player campaign.
  
  Once I got used to the controls, I loved every thing about the game: the battles, the maps, the 
 graphics. All very nice. Except I found EA to have server problems. The EA server seemed to go 
 down every other day, so I started to play less. 
  
  Another letdown for this game is the online ranking. You can only gain rank by maintaining certain 
 statistical benchmarks. Like PPH (points per hour) . Talk about stress just to get to general (which 
 I never could reach) .
  
  You do, however, get ranked for most kills and such, but to think that you could lead a kill category 
 and still be a Sergeant is really lame.
  
  There are a couple of maps that seem to favor one side more than the other, but all in all, they 
 are fun to play. The vehicles are awesome, and each weapon has an effective purpose in the game.
 
  
  If you are looking for a good multiplayer game, despite being older, this game still delivers hours 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Being able to control multiple people, as well as multiple weapons and machinery was outstanding. 
 Controls were easy to work and the gameplay was challenging but not impossible. 
  You can fly helicopters, drive cars, dirve tanks, And drive boats. There are a lot of varieties 
 of guns. Also, each vehicle, boat, and helicopter has weapons on it. it's also very fun in campaign 
 mode. You also get medals for different things so its a challenge to get medals and ribbons to 
 raise, your ranking. Enjoyed the campaign mode, but the stand out features of this game would be 
 the on line action. There are several good maps to choose from, and it's and easy why to bring 
 back the days of huge team battles. The multiplayer on this game is phenomenal. You can do anything 
 you can imagine more or less in this game online, and the maps are great. There are endless amounts 
 of military and civilian vehicles to command both on land, in the air, and on the water. Over 50 
 weapons can be used online. Whether you prefer a good firefight, a tank battle, an air battle, 
 a naval battle, or maybe calling in an airstrike on your enemy's base, you can do it all in BF2. 
 I recommend this game to anyone out to have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  As the header so blatantly describes Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is an excellent comparison of 
 Valve's Counter-Strike in gameplay not graphics as it mobilzes some of the unique aspects Counter-Stike 
 offered, then EA threw in some modding, next gen graphics, vehicular combat and we have another 
 great multiplayer only game with a lackluster story...
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay can be felt and described as both action packed, relying on heavy weaponry combat 
 at stake combined with fast paced vehicular assault and thrown into the mix some competitive measures 
 such as upgrading characters, modding armor and weapons, and so on and so forth. One can utterly 
 get lost in the multiplayer aspect of this game as trying to rank up works fantastically combined 
 with outstanding graphics for its time.
  
  Graphics:
  Which brings me to my next praise. The graphics are pretty well balanced and enjoyable to look 
 at as you proceed in your quest for domination of the battlefield. The 360 promotes nice textures 
 on the weapons and vehicles alike for it to still be enjoyed as time progresses.
  
  Sound:
  The sound of your arsenal is well on par with this day and age in modern technological 
 warfare. The vibrating of the controller when you unleash an array of M4 bullets isn't half bad 
 as well as the sound of a chopper overhead circling your enemies position.
  
  Control:
  Not as fast paced as Counter-Strike, but it is indeed do-able and tends to hold its own. The button 
 orientation may take some getting used to at first, but afterwards you'll feel like you're playing 
 Counter-Strike and/or any other FPS in the past. 
  
  Overall:
  Battlefield 2 is an outstanding multiplayer game to not be misunderstood by its lack of story. 
 Although it tries to seemingly impress in the single player mode, it nevertheless comes up more 
 than short. The real gruff of this game is in the multiplayer. Large team based, ticket taking, 
 coordination between a 16 player fray multiplayer action. If you enjoy multiplayer FPS games with 
 room for advancement in rank then Battlefield 2 will prove worthy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Released: April 11, 2006
  Publisher: EA Games
  Developer: Digital Illusions
  Game Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  
  Opening Thoughts:
  Almost 
 a year after the Xbox release of Battlefield II, EA Games released the duplicate title on the Xbox 
 360. It was the same gameplay, with better graphics and an increased level of difficulty.
  
  Story: 20%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (5/10)
  One 
 of the few setbacks of this game is its lack of a detailed storyline. There are no cutscenes, just 
 a few radio transmissions at the beginning of each mission.
  
  The basic story is that NATO has invaded Kazakhstan for some reason or another and the Chinese 
 fight back. After sets of around three missions, the viewpoint of the player changes from NATO 
 to Chinese, and vice-versa throughout the entire game.
  
  There are also challenges to play that give you stars that can increase your rank.
  
  Gameplay 
 (9/10)
  The gameplay is very innovative. Unlike any other first-person war shooters, Battlefield II contains 
 the very creative hotswap ability. To hotswap, you look at another teammate and press the Y button 
 to change soldiers. There are 5 different types of soldiers that each have unique weapons and skills.
 
  
  There are also large amounts of vehicles that can be driven. Strategy comes into play quite a bit 
 in certain levels, which is also the gameplay's only fault. Some levels need to have more soldiers 
 added because too many die too quickly and the level ends before the mission is a quarter of the 
 way finished. Not only that, but when a mission is failed, it must be started over from the beginning. 
 There are no checkpoints.
  
  The challenges are also very difficult. Some challenges involve hotswapping between soldiers to 
 get to a certain point, while some are more complicated and involve using weapons strategically. 
 Some even mix the two. There are also vehicle challenges that range from driving between checkpoints 
 and transporting soldiers.
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  There are still some games, two years later, that can't beat the graphics of Battlefield II. I 
 played the game quite a bit and never experienced a single bit of lag or locking up.
  
  Durability (6/10)
  With the game's frustration level, difficulty and lack of a storyline, it 
 is not likely to be played long when compared to games like Halo 3, GTA IV and Call of Duty 4.
 
  
  Overall Score (8.2/10)
  Rounded Overall Score (8/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Not a game to buy, but renting would be worth it because it is not too lengthy and the hotswapping 
 feature is a must-try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llkeller2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Modern Combat offers a very fun online experience. Those who will buy Bad Co. need to check this 
 out first. Modern Combat can be had at a bargain price at this time. Modern Combat is very addictive 
 and it is hard to stop once you get started. The online battles are massive with a good variety 
 of maps. Armored vehicles are awesome to drive. The graphics are excellent, especially for one 
 of the first games released on the XBOX 360. The secret to ranking up in this game is to capture 
 flags. My main complaint is that the helicopters are difficult to control without a lot of practice. 
 I noticed the Bad Co demo has the same helicopter difficulty. Modern Combat still has a large online 
 community playing as of this writing. My only concern is whether or not the servers will still 
 be active once Bad Co comes out. Overall I highly recommend this game for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Here we go again. you only have one thing to worry about in the proctology exam when you look to 
 your left then your right and notice that both of the docs hands are on your shoulders. Thats about 
 how this one felt. It did have some really cool feautures and decent graphics. but the story mode 
 was a little wierd to play with the controls and they took some getting use to. this one is a decent 
 game but not the greatest by a long shot. If your a fan of the series then you need it and if not 
 then you shouldnt really get to excited about this one. The pc version is much better and offers 
 mcuh more then this version. So if all else fails dont even rent it because you can buy this one 
 for the same cost that it is to rent it. Your best bet is to call one of your stingy greedy friends 
 and say hello best friend can i borrow one of your mediocre games. and if he says no then just 
 punch him in the face and take it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a great game for those that love the Battlefield franchise and team based first 
 person shooters. The campaign is a good idea, where you play opposing sides battling against each 
 other on many different fronts of the modern world, completing objectives and moving from point 
 to point, and mission to mission. Unless you have a good TV, or a way to change the brightness 
 a lot though, you might find you are a miss to these missions, and the splendidly styled backgrounds 
 they come with, especially on the night missions. I found it was incredibly dark when playing some 
 of the campaign missions, making it difficult to see. The multiplayer aspect is a really well done, 
 where the two teams battle each other to take control of certain objective points, using many different 
 types of vehicles in addition to a plethora of weaponry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyo4
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  battlefield 2 for X06 is a very different style of game compared to thecomputer versions. itis 
 the only battlefield game to have a non-multiplayer experience (except for xbox live) and to have 
 a campaign. it is quite fun and has a wide range of weapons and vehicles to use at your will and 
 highly interactive enemies. unfortunetly it does become quite repetetive and frustrating after 
 the first 5 levels and it happens to freeze here and there. it allows you to observe situations 
 and tacticly resolve the problems that surroundthe objective or you can just run straight through 
 it. The game brought me a lot of fun and time playing so i hope that everyone can play it and have 
 as much fun as i had. Also the online is probably one of the funnest games for online that i have 
 played. it has long maps that fit up to 24 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcfr822
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Singelplayer is horrible, you don't do much more than back and forth with an electronic team. Multiplayer 
 is when you should get ready for battle. It has a whole bunch of different things you can do, and 
 you can get unlocks which i dont really like, but its ok. Overall a good game. I also think you 
 should not have to unlock extra weapons and other things because then the better players get to 
 have all of the fun while those who are just starting get zilch! But i do like that it is easy 
 to level up, i cannot get the unlocks on pc for somereason and i have 1 on 360. can any1 help me 
 with this? And another thing, what do i do if i want to fly a helicopter, i normally adapt quickly 
 to games, but this one... well lets just say it is not perfect. for some reason i dont rotate forward, 
 and i keep crashing. well if this were a perfect game, it would have a single player with mission 
 objectives, and the game's course would be affected by what you do, not all preprogrammed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The story isnt complete garbage but beating missions will take time. The friendly AI are completely 
 usless in almost everyway and they die within seconds of the mission start.
  
  I must dissagree with gamespot on the shooting feels like an arcady type gallery. i dissagree 100%. 
 This is pretty solid shooter.
  
  I do agree that the vehicles are very clumsy and they do not control well but the firepower makes 
 up. Vehicles sound authentic and they are very nice looking
  
  The graphics are very polished and look great.
  
  My favorite part about the single player 
 mode is the hot swapping because it is very useful and it looks cool.
  
  This game over xbox live is where the game really shines, because it is very easy to kill someone 
 and the variety of character classes are very unique. Team killing is an issue though and sometimes 
 somebody can team kill the whole game and not get booted unless the people who died agreed to vote 
 to boot.
  
  Guns are awsome, vehicles are awsome, game is rubbish (kinda) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 for the PC is one of the greatest multi player games out there. But this series now 
 heads over to the X Box were they change the game a bit. Is this a good change or a bad change?
 
  
  The answear is bad change. Thou this game still has a pretty good multi player, it has a bad single 
 player. This time around they try to make it feel more like a single player rather than a bot mode. 
 The single player fails to impress, but is the multi player really fun, and will keep you entertained 
 for a while..
  
  The multi player is pretty fun thou it takes some time to get use to. The guns are hard to use, 
 and they waste amo fast. The vehicles take some time to get use to. The weapons are not as cool 
 as the PC versions are, there is actually fewer kits and so far I have not heard of any unlocks.
 
  The maps are different, but the PC version has the best maps. But the battles are intense, and 
 some of the maps are pretty fun to play on.
  
  The graphics look pretty good, some of the environments look really nice, and the gun models look 
 nice to. Thou there are some effects that look just plain ugly.
  
  The sound still sounds pretty good. The PC version of Battlefield 2 has really amazing sounding 
 sound, and that does not change for the Xbobx 360 version.
  
  Overall if you want a good tactical shooter for the X Box 360 then you should give Battlfeiled 
 2 Modern Combat a try, but if you have a PC and have not played the PC version then you should 
 defiantly buy the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villihamson
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  i do love this game i really do but when you first buy it and put it into your 360, start playing 
 the single player oh oh it's so boring once you die you change to another player not exactly a 
 challenge and there's some levels that give achievements for barely doing anything this might not 
 bother people who don't care about gamer score but i do and it's what has kept me from going to 
 the dark side of ps3 when my 360 has had red ring of death 2 times. The online play is immense 
 though graphics may not be the best but the different variety of weapons and teams being able to 
 just jump into a helicopter and shoot people until you get bored is just fantastic (not that you 
 will get bored couldn't think of anything else) i started playing the online demo last Christmas 
 and when they stopped the demo i had to go out and buy the game and even though it's getting old 
 and there's a new battlefield coming out BAD COMPANY i still want to play it because it's just 
 fun online which is where i play most, for those campaign lovers this game may not be for you. 
 :D: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3vz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was horrible the first time I had played it in singleplayer. The levels are extremely 
 grueling and heavily stressing perfection, seemingly involving a lot of luck to get through the 
 level. The "hotswap" feature is somewhat cool, being able to switch between random soldiers on 
 the battlefield is convenient for tight situations. The problem is that you need to take a lot 
 of cover and get down, but the game never makes it clear to you how to get things done. After a 
 long and painful trek, getting to the last few levels only makes the story seem worse as this random 
 guy jumps into the scene. News reports between levels heighten the realisticness, but never clear 
 up the overall story.
  
  Equipment is earned in SP by earning stars. You get them from your rating on different missions. 
 You also need medals to level up past a certain rank. These medals are mostly dependent on luck 
 and memorization of all enemies in a particular level. This makes them more rewarding, but it grows 
 tedious to try again and again. Medals are terrible in multiplayer. In the heat of battle, how 
 are you supposed to kill 20 guys with c4 or grenades, (?!) let alone kill 4 people with a knife 
 (?) in one life (?!) .
  
  On to the real meat of the multiplayer. The maps are vast and colorful, and at the same time hard 
 to see enemies. The sniper rifle is EXTREMELY unbalanced, so if you hate people n00bing you then 
 you WILL NOT like this game. The convenient hiding spots and huge sniper distance do not help.
 
  
  Here's the real good stuff. It is fun to get in tanks/helicopters/other vehicles and blow **** 
 up. It is also fun to rocket n00b random people who get too close to your base. And it is also 
 fun to team bleed with the pistol since it is next to useless. My personal favorite, "c4 the helicopter 
 and then TK anyone who gets in it" never gets old.
  
  The bottom line is that you should not get this game unless you are a hardcore military shooter 
 fan/ multiplayer military shooter addict, or just want a tactical multiplayer without expecting 
 any achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpal
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Battlfieled 2: Modern Combat is an exellent game that bring the best multiplayer known in games 
 to the xbox 360.
  
  With a new look battlfield shines with its graphics. Sweeping fields, snowy mountains and cities 
 look briliant with the frostbite enge (also being rebuilt ofr b company) but what I love about 
 it is that the shell casing stay on the ground. so after a fierce firefight theres bodys and shell 
 casings all over the place.
  
  The audio is amazing like when your pinned down by a chopper and hiding inside a building you'll 
 feel as if your literaly getting pounded with rockets.
  For the singleplayer its a solid experience with memorable moments like secure a bech (d-day style) 
 to boarding a giant frigate and assaulting it with airbourne troops and helicopters. The only problem 
 is the AI, not that its dumb or anything but theres no difficulty settings and the enimies are 
 freaking crack shots!
  
  But is is a good traning ground for the multiplayer. The multiplayer is fun, fast and furious. I 
 think i'll leave it at that!
  
  Later gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SMYLEY_
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Let's put this out there so there's no confusion: Battlefield is, so far, one of the best multi-player 
 games ever. With maybe an exeption to Halo or WOW, Battlefield deffinatley wins the award for best 
 online shooter. Its massive library of equally massive maps combined with kit weapon options, detailed 
 stat tracking and leaderboards, ability to filter through games by map and game type, great community 
 and teamwork, and the forever famous "conquest" game type make BF2MC better than any other online 
 shooter in the genre. Halo, Gears of War and other renound online FPS/TPS just cannot compare with 
 the genius balance that was created in production of BF. Halo doesn't allow you to pick the map 
 you play expept on a custom game and even then only the party leader has the ability, Gears of 
 War lets you pick the # of rounds, map, and gives you the ability to host a game but the lack of 
 diversity in game types result in a game expirience thats just not as fleshed out as it could be. 
 BF2MC has equality in map size, player features, and all around freedom of gameplay. Unfortunately, 
 this effort is completely thwarted in its single player mode in which the story is blurred by its 
 own stupidity, the effort of trying to produce a story makes it only that much more pathetic, and 
 the robotic feel of enemy and freindly AI makes you feel as though your playing a game of first 
 person whack-a-mole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield series is one of the most popular multiplayer games to date, with a nice arcadey 
 feel that was brought to us in 2002 by Digital Illusions. Battlefield 1942 was one and addictive, 
 featuring many vehicles and selectable character classes. Battlefield 1942 spawned the not as popular 
 game Battlefield Vietnam and the immensly popular Battlefield 2 for the PC. Battlefield 2 improved 
 on what made Battlefield 1942 a great game; vehicles, teams, weapons, maps etc. Then came Battlefield 
 2; Modern Combat for the consoles. Modern Combat disgraced the Battlefield name (and Battlefield 
 2) as well. This game is uninovative (worse then BF1942) and wasn't fun. Considering this was EA's 
 and Digital Illusions second chance to get it right after the PS2 and Xbox version of Battlefield 
 2; Modern Combat, this game fails pathetically. It is obvious that the developers took the PS2/Xbox 
 version of Battlefield 2; Modern Combat and slapped on new textures, effects, lighting and other 
 flashy crap to hide the fact that this game was pathetic in Singleplayer terms. 
  The Multiplayer was good (and saved the games *ss) and brought back memories of first BF1942. However, 
 if you don't have Live this game is not worth buying as you won't get much fun of the highly anticipated 
 singleplayer content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I played battlefield 1942 on pc a couple of years back, and i wanted to check battlefield 2 on 
 pc.
  but my pc couldn't handle it so i bought battlefield a couple of days back for xbox 360 and i must 
 say, the singleplayer is awfully performed.
  You have the control of your whole team, and when you die with one team member you get respawned 
 into another member of your team that's still alive.
  Its a matter of taste, the singleplayer content is something that you like or dislike.
  
  But 
 the multiplayer is what its all about, just some old fashion shoot em down with allot of vehicles 
 and aircraft's that you can operate.
  The levels/ maps are huge and pretty accessible for snipers and vehicles + aircraft's that you 
 have at your disposal.
  the multiplayer is fun and you will spent allot of hours on this game in multiplayer mode.
  
 
  you need a multiplayer game, well this is the one.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: t52454
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  If you like multiplayer xbox live games then this would be a game i would recommend. The single 
 player campaign is a little bit of a downer, but the quality of the multiplayer makes up for it 
 completely in my mind. In the multiplayer and have the ability to control an array of vehicles 
 from a simple snowmobile to a helicopter. You choose from kits such as assault and special ops 
 just like in the single player. The objective is to gain control of bases in conquest mode, or 
 to capture the flags in CTF. This is one of the best games to play online with a friend if you 
 want to go around and kill people in a vehicle, or simply take over bases as a two man team. If 
 you like team oriented multiplayer games then i would recommend you at least try this game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackouthc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is fun but this game would be nothing without the online play. Playing on classic 
 maps such as A Bridge Too Far you can destroy your enemies with the great range of vehicles including 
 my personal favourite, the helicopter (which can have up to 5 of your teammates in it with you) . 
 You can choose from being an assault, engineer, special ops, sniper or medic and you can change 
 every time you die. The aim of the more popular mode of BF2 is to capture and hold the flags for 
 as long as possible. The games go for about 20 mins and can have 24 players per game. Next to Halo 
 I believe Battlefield 2 is well worth the money and if you dont already have it go out and buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Now then. I see you actually did pretty well on last year's performance review, which is why I 
 have to say management is surprised and concerned at how you've slipped this time around. We're 
 assuming you're not taking extra coffee breaks and the like but we have to ask; with having brought 
 so little to the table with you this time, what exactly have you been doing with all the extra 
 time?
  
  Let's get right to some of the performance issues at hand shall we? It would appear this time around 
 you shipped without any offline multiplayer? bad idea. You also seem to be completely devoid of 
 any tutorial even though it is the minimum standard on all next gen games. You'll be marked down 
 for that offense. I'm sorry.
  
  Additionally it has come to our attention that not only is your control scheme cumbersome and ill-conceived, 
 but that you have also managed to present a wholly substandard radar system which is virtually 
 useless. Who on earth advised you radar needed a zoom function?
  
  Finally the gimmick upon which your prestige is based has slid into mediocrity as well. Swapping 
 out for other characters and locales via the x button has become so disorienting that often times 
 complete reference is lost to one's surroundings.
  
  I'm afraid Battlefield we cannot authorize a raise for you at this time. In fact due to these many 
 grievous offenses... the company has decided to let you go. We will no longer be requiring your 
 services. Please clean out your desk by close of business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gator_Fan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Battelfield on single player mode, I was very dissapointed. It wasnt 
 very long, very unrealistic situation, and simple AI. Then I decided to try out the online mode, 
 and completely made up for the single player. The online is the most amazing creation of online 
 mode on the 360. (And Im writing this review after COD4 released.) So thats how good it is. For 
 those of you who like running around like retards, this isnt your online game. Online requires 
 teamwork. Snipers, this game is for you. Level design is absolutely huge, and great realism to 
 each map. The only thing that will make your everyday sniper mad is Killcam. When you are off in 
 the middle of nowhere and pick someone off, after they die they see where you are. So they just 
 re-select their weapon, choose a sniper and get revenge. So if you like sniping make sure after 
 you kill someone you move, quickly. Crappy single player, Best multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Praetor
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry this review has been a long time coming. Anyways...
  
  It's an okay game. But this will sum it up:
  
  Pros --
  +Take great formula (battling over 
 capture points)
  
  + Put in luke-warm but pretty alright story (which BF2 PC lacked)
  
  + Graphics upgrade from BF 1942 (but not BF2 [depending on your computer] )
  
  + Decent maps; 
 fun to party up with friends
  
  Cons --
  
  - maps aren't near as good as BF 2 (PC that is)
  
  - Take out commanders (in turn taking out 
 commander-controlled UAV, artillery, supplies drops) , squads, and making it worth using voice
 
  
  - Give kill cam, allowing a sniper with a decent spot to be quickly dispatched
  
  - take out unlockable weapons
  
  - Give snipers ability to scan for enemies (instead of commanders) , 
 as well as a cruise missile command
  
  - Make mines vulnerable
  
  - little difference amongst weapons for each side (except for the shotguns and snipers)
  
  
 - bad servers
  
  - no trademark 16-32-64 players options
  
  - no Infantry Only
  
  - ranking system is CRAZY awful
  
  - a lot more I can't remember
  
  There's just so many 
 features taken out, why settle for this garbage like I did (for 6 months) before getting the PC 
 good stuff. The community is still thriving after 2 years from BF2's release.
  
  Of course, this is BF2: MC. So it's going to be a little different. I enjoyed this for a long time, 
 but after finding out what I was missing, I skipped out on it.
  
  Now run from this game screaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  awsome grafix, a true 360 title. same gameplay as the first mc 4 old xbox but i got live and its 
 awsome!! but it still has the same old boring campain BUT ITS INPOSIBLE SAME WITH MULIT PLAYER 
 PEOPLE ARE INSANE AND USE NO TEAM WORK. but heres how it comes down, out of 10
  
  grafix 9- it could have had craters from explosions but amazing bullet holes!
  gameplay 6- average 
 battlefield...
  ahhh what the hell ill give it an 8.5, its good. but not perfect.
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  
  lol lol lol lol lol lol  
 haha 300 is funny as hell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I reviewed Battlefield 2 for the pc. Now I find it difficult to review this game without comparing 
 it to the Battlefield 2 version on the pc, as both are quite similar and yet so different. Everything 
 is sort of in miniture form in the pc version and the console vesion seems bigger and better in 
 my opinion.
  
  Both are definetly multiplayer games you wouldn't buy these games for single player, but single 
 player is good for practise ever so slightly it's not till your up against the real world that 
 you find it tough dying all the time you feel as if your never going to get anyone but trust me 
 after a while you will and you will find yourself totally immersed in this world and you'll look 
 at your watch and say Jesus is that the time already.
  
  Great Great Great game!!!!!
  
  If you don't have broadband though don't bother!
  
  Superb highly addictive multiplayer modern 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow, after downloading the BF2: MC demo and giving this game a try. I knew I had to get it. A long 
 time back, I rented this game before I had Xbox Live, and thought it was okay, but of course, I 
 didn't have access to multiplayer, so I was missing about 70% of the Battlefield 2 experience. 
 But then when I got Xbox Live, this game became a huge part of my Xbox life. Lets get the single-player 
 over with, since the multiplayer is what this game is about. There is a campaign which takes place 
 in a fictional war between the U. S., European Union, and China. Your givin about 20 missions to 
 complete objectives on foot, or in vehicles. The campaign is fun, but feels like an afterthought 
 in comparison to the phenominal multiplayer. Speaking about multiplayer, this is where Modern Combat 
 truley shines! Up to 24 player on gigantic mapes feels truley epic, and you feel like your really 
 acommplishing something. There are only two modes-conquest, and capture-the-flag. Conquest the 
 only mode you'll really want to play in the end. In case you don't know what it is, it's where 
 you try to capture different spawn points throughout the map. Whoever has the most spawn zones 
 in control by the end wins. This might seem basic, but it gets extreamly deep and tactical. For 
 example-should I charge the spawn point in a jeep with a buddy and capture it, or should I stay 
 back as a sniper and pick off everyone before moving in. Or I can fly in a helicopter, bombard 
 the command post with missles, and then let my friends take it over, or I can simply call in an 
 air-strike and then do my thing? You get the point! The maps have lots of exotic and varied terrain 
 to fight on. Desserts, urban war-zones, swamps, and arctic regions are all in the middle of the 
 fight and make each match feel fresh. As always, you get to choose between 5 different soldier 
 classes-Assualt (general combat) , Sniper (long range combat) , Special Ops (stealth/sabotage) , Engineer 
 (anti-amor/vehicle repair) , and Support (medic/general combat) . Each class has their own specific 
 jobs to do, and even though the snipers are often overused, the sniping feels solid. Battlefield 
 has always been known for vehicles, so strap yourself into jeeps, tanks, apcs, assualt buggies, 
 speed-boats, and even helicopers. All of the vehicles are easy to use, so you don't need much practice 
 (except for the helicoper, it's a bit more complicated then the other vehicles.) Battlefield 2: Modern 
 Combat is an exteamly fun for its online frag-fests, but if your not connected to Xbox Live, this 
 title is not worth anything more than a rental. But if you are connected to XBL, by all means purchase 
 this title! (Don't forget it is now an Xbox 360 Platinum Hit!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGION702
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  ea took a great game and made it just as fun on a console. incredible graphics and the best multiplayer 
 fps in my opinion. cant wait for bad company. must have for any fps x360 fan. i love the ability 
 to plan joint attacks online with friends. air attacks, tank attacks, snipers... anything you want 
 to do in the entire battlefield is available. i loved it on PC and im obsessed with it on 360. 
 really not good AI squad based tatics in single player. but this game was made for online. intense 
 action in some multiplayer maps. quality online setup. just a great game all the way around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpdcaddy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  This is my review of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat. The single player is fun for a minute. You'll 
 find that you can spend 1000 hours trying to get everything perfect .. I beat the single player 
 on the PS2 version .. Can't choke through it again for the XBOX 360 version ... Same thing ...
 
  
  The multiplayer I find pretty fun .. It's a fun game to go into private chat with a buddy and mess 
 people up. I don't recommend the ingame audio because it only works about half the time and when 
 it does they only heard half of what you said. I blame it on the crappy EA servers you're forced 
 to use.
  
  Anyone who has played the computer version of the game will probably hate it. There's less people 
 and weapons. Even with all the downs, I still rank this up there. This is in my top 5 multiplayer 
 games of all time. Gears and Halo being top 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastachieff
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  First impressions of this game are, oh ok I think this game is pretty freaking cool, But after 
 played for a while you realize, with all the bugs, glitches, and how impossible the campaign is 
 you think to yourself, why did someone actually make this dog DooDoo, I am seriously Pissed off, 
 but on the bright side I sold it to get Gears of War!!! And to avoid me ranting on for this pisser 
 of what the develepors call a video game, I am going to move on with my life, thanks to the people 
 who made this game, EA, you made me waste 50 Big ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimi_man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 MC is a good game at best. The single player in my opinion is a little slack, but 
 the multiplayer is amazing. With great visuals, fantastic sound, and fun gameplay is all in BF2.
 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay in this game is as you'd expect, amazing action. You will be shooting a 
 hell of alot, controling different vehicles, and using different classes. The single player is 
 ok, but its not the heart of the game. Graphics - The graphics in BF2 are pretty good. All vehicles, 
 charecter models and enviroment look great. And with amazing effects, this game runs very well. 
 Explosions going off everywhere, plenty of men running for cover and choppers firing over head 
 is just great.
  
  Sound - Probably the best feature of the game. The sound is magnificant. The gun, bullets flying 
 past your head, the sweet rocket launch across the map, it is very imersive. Value - It is well 
 worth the money IF you have Xbox Live, if not, it would be barely a rent. Overall i recomend this 
 great shooter for all Xbox Live fans who love a good explosive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat for the PS2 and Xbox were good to say=ay the most and mediocre to 
 say the least. The game now switches over to a more updated console, the Xbox 360. Minor Differences 
 show up in the game some more noticeable than others.
  
  The gameplay is basically no different so there is not much to expect but of course the graphics 
 have been ramped up for the new console. Single player still suffers most of the same problems 
 as before. Enemies spawning on top of you, A. I still being for the most part unhelpful and borderline 
 useless. The hot swapping feature from the old game is back which allows you to instantly transfer 
 from one soldier to the next. This makes the game a tad bit more fun and it also can make battle 
 easier as it makes handling different targets a breeze. For instance 10 paratroopers might be trying 
 to land and you run out of bullets with one soldier so you switch to the next who will most likely 
 not be reloading. That maybe one advantage but the hot swapping feature does add a bit more and 
 gives the game a unique style. The arcade feel can make or break your tilt towards the game as 
 if your looking for a serious FPS then this wont be it but if you tend to lean to more casual games 
 this maybe for you. The decision of course all depends on the person buying the game.
  
  The game rewards you for racking up kills and staying alive with one soldier in the forms of medals 
 and achievements. This gives the game a slight replay value. The game can be frustrating at times 
 because it tries to blend arcade style tactics with poised FPS techniques and it at some places 
 doesnt pull it off so well.
  
  The mini-games unlocked via single player are a fun distraction which also reward you with stars 
 that add to you official ranking. Ranking will be gotten to in a bit.
  
  Now onto multiplayer mode, its quite good and makes up for the somewhat lame single player but 
 it again is almost no different than the old multiplayer in fact even some old glitches return 
 to this game. While the single player game is mostly a loud noisy battle that never stops the multiplayer 
 experience is quiet which can be disorientating for new players.
  
  Tactics that were used in the old multiplayer make there return here a. k. a double duck and shoot 
 then move on. The game does have an ok newcomer system. As newbies are only pit with other newbies 
 but the transition to upper-class at a seriously fast pace will put off many players. The medals 
 needed to be won to advance can easily be done with a friend making medals unimportant.
  
  This gives you nothing really to fight to achieve besides a higher ranking as you are rewarded 
 no other way. Ranking up is fun to watch but after a while it get boring and for the most part 
 uninteresting. The vehicles in both single and multiplayer modes are hard to control which forces 
 players to adapt quickly to be able to keep up with other players. The game modes are two simple 
 modes: Capture the Flag and Conquest.
  
  In CTF it is exactly as it sounds you capture the flag from your enemies base and take it back 
 to yours. This is the faster paced of the two modes as it boggles down the playing field but conquest 
 is a quiet but large affair. Many times in at the start of a conquest game it can be loud and fun 
 but it soon turns into quiet and long.
  
  You must hold a flag under you control in an attempt to make the enemy forces lose their points 
 but sometimes with no means of transportation and large maps it can be a little on the annoying 
 side to move to a flag making things worse is getting there and failing to hold the flag making 
 you have to repeat the process over again.
  
  Unless you are with friends your human teammates usually stick by themselves which makes the game 
 less team friendly. You will also see players sticking to certain types of soldier types instead 
 of diversifying themselves. Also players tend not to explore different maps so unless you play 
 constantly your unlikely to see all the very good maps the game has to offer.
  
  The sounds from the guns are unnoticeable and many guns lack the power which is supposed to be 
 backed up by the sound but this is not to say with all guns but more of them are geared towards 
 unnoticeable. For example you could be walking around when you start getting hit from a machinegun 
 not more than 20 feet away but you dont hear the gun but only see the bullets and this can lead 
 to confusion.
  
  The game is very engaging but not very special and the new version feels more of a straight port 
 than a revamped version. Despite these flaws the game still manages to pull of a solid shooter 
 both on and offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game really do sucks if you don't got xbox live, Because the single player is kinda boring 
 and frustrating. But to make you guys happy, Get Xbox live. Because this is what Battlefield shines 
 the game. Xbox live is only suported to 24 players. Everytime I play the single player, One of 
 my friends said the single player sucks period. The Xbox live is what you guys need to play if 
 you guys want a lot of fun to play.
  
  Graphics would been better
  
  Sound kinda realisic
  
  Value 20 bucks is for the Multiplayer
  
  The Single player would 
 use some work.
  
  Battlefield got really good online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveBIRK
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  ok so the story mode is kinda week. mostly its go here to here and kill evry one on the way. the 
 hot swap thing is cool but can get confusing were u r some times. but the multiplayer of this game 
 is alot better than the campaign. even thought there r only two modes conquest and CTF it is still 
 rely fun. and it never gets boring. the game looks great. there soo much detail to the weapons 
 and enviorments. it looks great but sounds kinda weak idk if its my tv (which is notthat good) but 
 it sounds not that good. guns being fired in the distance sound like paint ball guns. but up close 
 they sound alot better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Fire
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is pretty much the same game as its Xbox and PS2 counterparts, with 
 better graphics. This game departs from the normal Battlefield stance and has a single-player campaign 
 revolving around a NATO-China conflict in Kazakhstan. You will play as both sides throughout the 
 story, and watch news videos about the conflict. The story does a good job at showing the propaganda 
 behind them. For example, a Chinese mission to destroy what's clearly a heavily-armed NATO cargo 
 ship was reported by the NATO reporter as an attack on a civilian vessel.
  The actual gameplay is very arcade-like, with little emphasis on cover or aiming. This is enforced 
 by a score you get for each mission with things like killing a soldier with a rocket gets more 
 points then an assault rifle. The unique feature in gameplay is hotswap which allows you to change 
 character at will. This also means that if you die with your initial character, you switch to another 
 one and fight on till all your men our gone. This system brings some frustrations, however. Since 
 you switch through characters all allies have a limited amount of ammo, instead of the infinite 
 you see standard. While it does restock, this takes a while. Your AI allies are very poor shots 
 will run into friendly tanks, which kill them.
  The biggest thing that brings the single-player down are the glitches. Clipping issues with bullets 
 are the biggest culprit, with enemies being able to hit you through things such as: boulders, metal 
 train storage crates, some buildings, and even entire hillsides. This is all evidenced in the last 
 level of the game, which even without the issues is nearly impossible, and the sniper-like accuracy 
 of the enemy .50cal's, the delay is registering enemy deaths, and other glitches make the last 
 level like a ride through hell.
  The real fun comes in the multiplayer, which supports up to 24 people. There are also all sorts 
 of vechicles such as tanks, helicoptors, buggys, and even cars to make the experience fun. However, 
 EA has not really supported this game since launch, despite the still large fan base, and the games 
 are very easy to glitch or lag out.
  Overall, while this game is not by any means great it's current price tag of $30 makes it a good 
 budget game to tide you over until games like Halo 3 and CoD4 this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosa922
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  See when i bought this game i thought this would be a true next-gen war game saly i was wrong. 
 It's an okay game but there are too many problems, see some of the missions are hard for no reason, 
 but some are too easy for no reason. And when you pass a mission you cant replay it without start 
 all the missions again, and the challenge mode is too easy and you cant even move.
  
  But with all BAD games there are some good things about them.
  The weapons are good and you can 
 drive a tank thats kinda realslistic. Also there is a mission kinda like d-day so that cool, and 
 in some mission you can call in artilarry attacks on tanks or bunkers, also in some missions you 
 can fly helicopters.
  
  I dont recommand buying this game, at all, you should just rent this game or just leave it alone, 
 it's not really worth your money. TRUST me i found out the hard way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRookieGB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Only played this three times as of writing this short review. The PS2 version was hard to play, 
 without HD tech the game was a nightmare, too hard to shoot and too hard to see what was going 
 on. However having not bought this game for months, and playing COD2 &amp; 3 and Gears, R6 Vegas, 
 etc ... I can say I should have bought it sooner.
  
  fed up with WW2? Want a Modern shooter that plays well online. Don't need to be an expert marksman 
 ethier. Then Get this for cheap in any second hand shop or ebay. Got this myself for &pound;14.95. 
 And its money well spent. Ok its not perfect, but the online play is great fun. Good maps and a 
 easy to play. Single player mode isn't bad either but no where near as playable.
  
  If you want an online shooter get this. Way better than GRAW 1 or 2 online.
  
  Graphics are 
 much better on the 360 compared to the PS2 or Xbox, and gameplay to me seems faster and smoother. 
 Weather effects are cool and weapons different.
  
  IMO , worth a go. LETS HOPE EA KEEP THE SERVERS RUNNING FOR A WHILE AND THE 360 owners keep playing 
 it.
  
  Cheers All 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syco722
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  If you have played this game on PC before than disregard this review, for it is written by someone 
 who has never played Battlefield 2 on the PC and is writing from the 360 standpoint as if it were 
 a new title. Battlefield 2. You like Vehicles? You like guns? Special Character Classes? Each with 
 their own weapons and equipment? Like alot of each of the things I named above? You'll like Battlefield 
 2. Sure the Campaign sucks quite a bit, but the 24 person mutiplayer on this game is incredible. 
 The guns are Evenly balanced (for the most part) , the vehicles are great, every map is a gem.... except 
 backstab... so many people play it you are guarenteed to be tired of it within the first week of 
 play, although it is a good map at first. Try playing some of the lesser played maps, which are 
 in my opinion, better. Such as Honor, Dammage, and a few whom I don't recall the name of. Either 
 way, if your into multiplayer, with clan support, 24 players, a not so great ranking system (keeping 
 up your pph is too much of a hassle to endure) , with few flaws other than that, than this games 
 for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ModBox369
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is one of my personal favorite games i played this game for one and 
 a half years and never got bored the only thing that dragged me away from it was gears of war but 
 still to this day i go back and play it again this is one of the best all round games ever great 
 online play great campaign and a mint clan system yeah sometimes the clan severs are down but still 
 i have yet to find a game that provides a better clan system then this. Its a great game to play 
 with a group of mates or just anyone around the world it really doesn't matter you know you will 
 always have fun with the great graphics sound and game play this is one of the best games yet to 
 hit the 360 community and is a great setup for Battlefield Bad Company which is set to come out 
 mid November i know that ill be waiting for this great game to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is really annoying! It gives you a quick briefing which supposedly constitutes as a storyline 
 based around invading a small middle eastern country &amp; shooting the Chinese with very little 
 premise to do so &amp; thus out comes the American military attitude. You are then thrown straight 
 into the action without a tutorial or anything &amp; yes I guess I could have read the instruction 
 manual but it is no fun to do it this way &amp; it sticks in the memory far easier if you actually 
 put it into a gaming context. Anyway you are thrown straight into the action without knowing the 
 controls at which point you have no idea where enemy fire is coming from so assuming that the controls 
 conform to normal FPS you start firing. After the first level you are irritated and restless. The 
 sound is alright but it is just a mish-mash &amp; the graphics are of a woeful standard &amp; with 
 franchises such as call of duty &amp; medal of honour this should not be released at all. I would 
 write a larger more in depth review but I grow weary of the mere irritation that comes with even 
 thinking about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adcox49
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Great game but has some problems. First the good, has some great graphics which make the battlefield 
 come to life with bullets flying by explosions everywhere pieces of debris flying off buildings 
 an utter chaos. One feature of the graphics and visuals which I found awesome is the fact that 
 the battlefield will become littered with shells which really brings to the experience and there 
 is nothing better than a Little Bird racing over head firing with shells raining down from the 
 sky.
  The sound in the game is great everything sounds perfect from the explosions to the sound of gun 
 shots in the distance. There really isnt much I can say it just sounds like a battlefield, an 
 all out war.
  The Game Play well the single player is a pass the story is not very good and just the sound of 
 the leaders is just annoying. But I am positive most people who buy a Battlefield game buy it for 
 the multiplayer which in this game is great. The multiplayer just tops you feel like you are on 
 the frontlines choppers battling, tanks roaring, with explosions going off in every direction. 
 Vehicles are all up for the taking and infantry battling it out on the streets. A wide range of 
 maps are available from desert maps, winter, urban, woodland everything. And in multiplayer you 
 have the choice between all the classes and Weapons.
  The Bad, Well I am sad to say there are a lot of bad things as well. The game holds a lot of glitches 
 and bugs people can go in a wall and shoot out but you cant shoot in, Tanks will get stuck on 
 small barrels and not be able to move, and this bugged me that there is no iron sights like previous 
 Battlefield games so now every gun except a support gun and shotgun has a scope on it making it 
 to easy. The Red Dot the worst feature in the game every enemy has a little red over there heads 
 making it incredibly easy to find a enemy, if I am running down a street I can usually see if there 
 is an enemy on the other side of the buildings Im passing and they can also see you, it really 
 takes away from the experience. There is a feature to turn it off but nobody does so it puts you 
 at a disadvantage to everyone else on the battlefield. Killing an enemy takes many shots depending 
 on the weapon meaning if you shoot someone in the head with an assault rifle it will not kill the 
 enemy it will do just as much damage as if you shot him in the hand. Vehicles are damaged too easily 
 if a tank hits a post it can loose up to half its health going at a slow speed also a tank can 
 be destroyed with a grenade sometimes. Those are just some of the Glitches, Bugs, and Issues with 
 the game but as with any game there is a lot of Team Killers, and the worst is if you are running 
 to a chopper there is a high chance you may be shot by someone on your own team wanting the chopper. 
 They call this game a tactical shooter but I would say other wise it is run and gun and it is very 
 hard to find a game with people communicating so if your looking for team work dont expect it. 
 But the Clan system is very good so you can get teamwork from that So overall its a great game 
 but has some problems so if u want a good multiplayer game pick this one up. Because even though 
 this game has some problems it is really fun and thats what it is all about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microchaos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I lay prone on the roof of a Chinese hotel wielding half an inch of death in my hands. Its an m95 
 sniper rifle. Peering down the scope, see 2 soldiers attempting to cross a bridge towards our base. 
 I shoot once, instincively cycling the bolt. He's been hit center mass, an instant kill. I aim 
 for the other soldier, who is confused, paranoid, and disoriented. I squeeze the trigger again, 
 hit him square between the eyes. I then hear a loud, repetitive noise unmistakable by anybody. 
 A helicopter. He's bearing down on me; a strafing run. As the pilot begins to fire, I open up with 
 with 2 shots which hit with little affect. I hunker down tight as the dull the dull thuds of rockets 
 impact the stories below me. No time... All or nothing... BANG. I hit the pilot inside the helicopter. 
 He's dead but he's heading straight towards me.......... This is Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, 
 sequel of the highly acclaimed PC title. While it retains some of the features of its PC cousin, 
 Modern Combat is an entirely different experience. One of the major differences is the addition 
 of a single player campaign mode. It features 20 missions set in the former Soviet republic of 
 Kazakhstan ranging from stunningly detailed mountain environments to oil rigs and deserts. The 
 campaign is split up having you playing as both a NATO soldier and a Chinese soldier. As you progress 
 through the story, you will view biased propaganda from both sides, eventually persuading you to 
 choose a side for the final mission. At the end of each mission, you will be awarded stars based 
 on your performance. These stars go to upgrade your rank and weapons. One of the highlights of 
 the single player is hotswapping. If you see an allied player's icon turn from blue to white, simply 
 press 'x' and you'll be instantly propelled in a matrix-style rush to the selected character, making 
 for one of the most unique and original features ever in a first person shooter. It is very useful 
 for moving around and about maps and utilizing vehicles. It is also a great tool for flanking. 
 You get mission points for utilizing this feature too, which is an incentive to use it. It has 
 been upgraded from the Xbox/PS2 version, which would only allow you to hotswap so someone in your 
 direct line of sight. Now the camera snakes around buildings and obstacles to get to the player, 
 creating an even cooler effect. Still even hotswapping can't make this campaign mode great. While 
 it has a good single player mode, there are some impediments than prevent it from having a great 
 campaign mode. The biggest of which is the artificial intelligence on both sides. Friendly A. I. 
 will simply run head-on into danger. Since there is no way to command your teammates, they get 
 killed easily. Because of this, you get punished when you need to hotswap to a different class 
 or vehicle but you can't because they're all dead or when you finally do die, you cant respawn 
 because they're all dead causing a mission failure. This can and will get frustrating as you take 
 on certain missions. About 3 missions have this problem. Another big problem is enemy difficulty. 
 Enemies have an outstanding view range and are killer accurate and powerful. Take for example the 
 sniping situation I gave in the intro. Lets say we put it into a singleplayer mission. If I killed 
 or missed one of them, not only will the other shoot back, but also every enemy in a line of sight. 
 Plus, they are unrealistically accurate. Once, I got killed by an engineer with a shotgun from 
 about 150m length. They are also accurate with machine guns. They will snipe you with them. Modern 
 Combat takes full advantage of the the 360's raw power. You'll sometimes find yourself stopping 
 just to look at the self-shadowing models and the stunning use of HDR lignting. In general, don't 
 get this game without Xbox Live unless you are an extremely forgiving and patient gamer. Speaking 
 of it, lets continue to the multiplayer aspect. This is the crown jewel of this game and every 
 other installation of the series. What it lacks in split screen and system link support, it makes 
 up for on Live. It features 2 gameplay modes, Conquest and Capture the Flag. Conquest is a Battlefield 
 series classic, popular in the PC edition. It is the most common mode played on the game. It involves 
 teams fighting to control flags, which also serve as spawn points. The teams have a certain number 
 of tickets which increase or decrease depending on the number of flags taken. Whoever causes the 
 other teams tickets to run out wins or the team with the most tickets at the end of the match wins. 
 The other mode, capture the flag is simply what it says. Not much explanation needed. Most flags 
 taken wins. A cool feature included is a rank and medals feature. You get achievements for every 
 medal you get. Plus, you can join games in session instead of having to wait for a new game. At 
 the end of each match, you can vote for the next map to be played on. EA has done a great job in 
 making lag free servers making for smooth gameplay even on DSL connections. Map with the most votes 
 wins. There are more vehicles than in the single player mode. Some of which are the Apache attack 
 helicopter and the LAV-25 amphibious APC. In the end, the multiplayer saves the day for this game. 
 While an attempt was made to appeal to the single player gaming market, its just not enough to 
 stand alone, but with Xbox Live gameplay, the series makes its mark on next-gen consoles. 9 Gameplay- 
 Simple to use contols for infantry makes good for beginners but vehicle controls can be a pain. 
 Single player is hard but fun and is fast paced. Multiplayer servers are mainly lag free, making 
 for great gameplay. Vehicles are fun, simply put.
  
  9.5 Graphics- Beautiful environments and great character models bring the visuals at and above 
 par compared to the PC version.
  
  6 Sound- Voice-overs are corny and cheesy. Most weapons make a realistic sound. Silenced weapons 
 sound too quiet.
  
  8 Presentation- Cutscenes were cool when they were on the current gen version. Get some new NEXT-GEN 
 cutscenes instead of using old ones. Menus are seamless and easy to use.
  
  9 Replay Value- Almost none for single player, but multiplayer can keep you on Live for a while.
 
  
  Overall -9- (Not an average!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: MC is a tatical FPS and a great one at that. The campaign has a hot new feature called 
 the hot-swap in which if you wanna get away from the enemies hot swap and you'll be a new char. 
 so you can let them get away lol. But the great part of the game is multiplayer, 24 online with 
 all the vehicles you can want ski-doo, boat, heli-copter, army tanks, hummer1's, caravans with machine 
 guns and trucks aswell. The only downfall is it will take you more than a couple hours to be able 
 to use the heli-copter well, what i do is just jump out on a high building pull out parachute and 
 land and snipe em all. Lets talk about the maps now! So there is definitly a lot of maps, though 
 ppl favor backstab, deadly pass, full frontal, bridge too far, and maybe frostbite. So you can probably 
 see you get a various amount of terrains for playing on, a winter-time terroist hut, a destroyed 
 city probably near middle east, bunch of islands, or a terroist facility, etc. graphics are nothing 
 special but this was one of the first next gen games out, so I didn't expect much from it, shadow 
 effects can really help you out i was hidding from a tank and i seen the shadow of a person on 
 the wall, bounced grenade and boom i get a kill! The sound rocked my serround sound like crazy 
 man i have 2 speakers beside me and i didnt know it was up that loud and a tank came up behind 
 me and fired it scared the **** outta me! Gameplay overall is fun, fun, fun. you could be full force 
 with assault or special ops, or you could hideout in a building while playing conquest and gaurd 
 your flag, the thing that makes me mad is no-one talks on it, so you might wanna bring a friend 
 if you get lonely, but i say rent the game if curios then buy it cause some ppl don't like it and 
 other love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  This game is really hard to describe. It is quite hard to find any real good points about the game, 
 as they are all over shadowed by all the annoying things which you will encounter.
  
  First of all, team AI is terrible. Your squad won't take cover, and you will quickly find yourself 
 alone with just a couple of others who haven't been killed yet. There is a hot swapping option 
 which allows you to switch between soldiers but this is totally unrealistic and will be shunned 
 by players seeking a more realistic experience. The campaign is extremely hard at times, and too 
 often you will find your self cursing and swearing at the ridiculous difficulty of some levels.
 
  
  The online play is pretty fun at first, with some nice maps and weapons, but you may find it to 
 slowly get boring and won't really interest you in the future. Since I got this game I have played 
 it about half a dozen times and have since left it untouched on my shelf.
  
  Overall, a really dissapointing game. Don't buy it - wait for Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerkidd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  The games' single player is good but it is one of those you have to play to understand how it feels. 
 it has a very solid multi player however. the best part is all the weapons and vehicles you get 
 to use. if there is a tank, car, helicopter or whatever in sight that isn't blown up you can use 
 it. the concept of being able to run around in a chaotic hellish battlefield is amazing, but (here 
 comes the bad news) the people on there don't talk much. If you have played on Xbox live for 30 
 seconds you know how important communication can be to a fast-paced fire fight. so if you want 
 to get good and have the best experience with it you have to find a lot of friends with the game 
 too. I thought it was great to be able to use some of the modern weapons on the battlefield. (my 
 favorite being the Barrett sniper rifle. But by now i would recommend finding a Wal-mart and rifling 
 through the bargain bin for this one. I give it a 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The Title says it all, the game is smooth and it is actually fun to play. The graphics are good 
 and it's campaign is relativaly long. THe multiplayer is somthing I could play for hours. Not much 
 more that could be said, Other than anyone who owns an 360, should and must buy this game because 
 it has so much to offer. The ability to transport to other players is the best part because if 
 you are in a helicopter and you are almost dead and you press the x button you transport some where 
 elese and you dont have to restart the mission. Great Value. All of the weapons are good and the 
 interface is very easy. You dont need to have much skill with other game to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Driver2020
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 : Modern Combat is in my estimation a below average 1st person shooter, and since 
 buying the game i think i probably spent about 30 minutes on the single player version not very 
 good.............. But wait then i discovered the multiplayer game and WHAT A F***** game this turned 
 out to be BRILLIANT! ABSOLUTELEY  has got to be in my opinion the 
 best multiplayer game available right now for the xbox360
  
  All I can say is if you have xbox live and don't have this game BUY IT NOW!
  
  I would like 
 to add that this game (as long as i have an xbox360) will always be a part of my games collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer355
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  i bought this game a month ago and im hooked. sure the single player isnt the best but the multiplayer 
 is the best ive seen on any game any console any time. you have a great selection of maps online 
 including my favourite, bridge too far, you have a superb selection of weapons including m4s and 
 AK47s. overall this game is the best game that i have bought for my 360 yet and it is also the 
 cheapest as i picked it up for a mindblowingly amazing &pound;15 or $30 to you yanks. overall great 
 multiplayer, great gameplay, great weapon selection, oh and i almost forgot about the stunning 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I bought this game off of ebay because it was cheap. When i got it i started playing but it didnt 
 draw me in a whole lot. I only played for about 20 minutes. This game is lacking in the offline 
 gameplay. Its boring, frustrating, and on top of that just a little stupid. I dont have xbox live 
 so i have to deal with offline play. Graphics arent the best, gameplay isnt that good, Sound is 
 pretty good but not the best. The achievments are pretty cool though, but some are really hard 
 to get. Overall, if you dont have xbox live, dont get this game. Its a dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I love battlefield 2 for the computer but mine cannot run it so when i heard that B2 MC was comming 
 to 360 i was excited but it was just the same thing as the orginal on the sonsole. The graphics 
 look nicer for the enviroments and weapons but the people dont look real and their is not any depth 
 to the story line. the game gets very repetitive and some of the levels make you into a raging 
 lunitic because you just cant beat it.. The sound effects do not sound like the real guns. The 
 physics in the game are terrible. The best part of the game is its multiplayer and even that is 
 flawed. The achievements are difficult to earn and take a while to get. It is fun to get more rank 
 the better you do but after not playing it for a while you cannot start playing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steverossero26
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game may lack in the single player aspect but it does contain some cool features you wont 
 find in any other game like the fly between soldiers. But the mulitplayer side of this game makes 
 up for all the shortcomings that are found in the single player version of the game. With up to 
 24 players in one room in relatively large maps you will find room for CQB and long range action. 
 Then add on the fact that you have the ability to man land, water and air vehicle. This game also 
 looks quite pretty; the lighting effects in this games are remarkable. All these things leave you 
 always wanting more time to play. This is a must have for any xbox 360 owner that has live and 
 enjoys playing a quality game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  BF2MC is a good game, but the single player missions are hard and can get annoying after the 10th 
 try. I got stuck on level 3 for god knows how long and wanted to destroy my xbox360 as a result! 
 However, the online multiplayer is very tactical and very fun, but tends to turn toward multiple 
 spawn-killings and grenade overkill. The maps are widely varied and look quite realistic, and offer 
 plenty of nooks and crannies to hide in to snipe unsuspecting fools.... however, there is a kill-cam 
 that allows those who died to see where you are hiding.... and the inclusion of said kill-cam was 
 a smart one, because it offers balance. Who's to say that in real-life combat that as you lay dying, 
 you wouldn't be able to radio your squadmates the location of the guy who killed you. That alone 
 makes this game more real-world than most. You will get totally hooked on the XBL multiplayer if 
 the tough single player doesn't suit your tastes. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  Ok.. if you don't have this game right now then you're wasting your life ok? got that? why you 
 ask? ok... here it goes I'll tell you why...
  
  I honestly think this is the most underrated game of all time... the ratings fall far below games 
 i've yet to really be able to say I just loved... I first played this on the playstation 2 and 
 loved it then... the only lacking thing were graphics... I got a xbox 360 not long ago and almost 
 immediately got BF2: MC... I have to say from the reviews I'd had my doubts... But I have to say 
 I was ridiculously impressed.... I know it says I have only put in 10-20 hours on this one but 
 I just got it 2 days ago so you can crunch the numbers there.... now that i've yammered on for 
 awhile here is my breakdown review. *drum roll*
  
  Graphics::: Ok.. graphics are my only issue with this game to be honest.. they are great but when 
 you've played other greats like GRAW and GOW they just arent up to par... but they are good especially 
 on an HDTV.
  
  Gameplay::: Alright... gameplay wise this one surpasses them all... in my opinion it even beats 
 out the socoms for immersiveness (if thats a word lol) never in a game have I really just felt 
 like the battle if not the war was all around me... and its not just a gunshot here.. grenade there.. 
 you have to play it to really get it but the whole time you play there are explosions and choppers 
 and tanks all around you pretty much all the time.. its amazing... Also there is a great medals/ribbons 
 ranking system in the game on both XBL on the single player campaign... aside from the game itself 
 its alot of fun just trying to earn medals and rank up ect.
  
  Sound::: In my opinion the sound in this game is really what makes it all come together.. I dont 
 really know how to say it other than it really does sound as if you're right there... on the Battlefield.. 
 no pun intended...
  
  Value::: 30 bucks and you could play it for hours and hours and it'll virtually never get old... 
 what more can I say.
  
  XBL Play::: Ok.. since this games basically made for XBL I might as well bring it up... first of 
 all.. if you dont have LIVE then I really don't think you'll enjoy this game even half as much 
 as you would with LIVE... the game even feels like it was made for online.. which in that aspect 
 it is topped the charts in my book... theres hardly ever lag.. its always easy to get in a game 
 (no waiting lobbies heck yes) and theres always still alotta people online... my only problem here 
 is the lack of communication you've probably read about in the forums.. but if you hook up with 
 the right people or just get lucky and find people who accually talk.. then the voice chat works 
 fine.
  
  All in all.. if you have XBL then you should get this game.. you won't regret it..
  and if you 
 dont have XBL.. then get out there and get an account card and BF2: MC and believe me.. it'll be 
 worth it to ya.
  
  feel free to add me if you get this game or already have it and want an achievement partner or 
 just someone to play with....
  
  See you on the Battlefield : buy this game !! have fuun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcong
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat deliver almost everything a player could want in online multiplayer. 
 Not only does it sport a large number of weaponry, an arsenal of drivable boats, vehicles, and 
 'copters, but it supports 24-player online play. Also, its online levels are very big and makes 
 you actually FEEL like youre in a true battle (those used to the PC Battlefield game will find maps 
 smaller than other games in series, however) The guns look great and there are a wide variety of 
 other weapons alloted to each playable soldier class. For instance, snipers get a cool doohicky 
 that allows the you and other teammates to see enemy positions. Assault class gets a grenade launcher 
 attachment for their primary rifle. And engineers recieve an anti-tank weapon. Of course, their 
 are much more i wont name, but i will tell you each class gets 5 items to carry, 2 of which are 
 actual firearms. However, all these unique strengths not found in other console games are somewhat 
 hidden behind a fair amount of minor problems. These include:
  -Sometimes, when running, your character simply slides across the ground in a statue-like position. 
 You will notice this while watching players from afar.
  
  -From time to time, game's server will randomly go out. Most of the time, it will be back online 
 within a few minutes, but other times its longer.
  
  -A weak singleplayer campaign (but this is almost expected, as it is the Battlefield series' first 
 attempt to incorporate a story-driven singleplayer mode)
  
  -Most matches are played on a few of the games maps (most commonly, the maps played are Backstab, 
 Bridge Too Far, and Deadly Pass) , but this isnt too much of a problem because usually you can search 
 for different maps under custom games.
  
  Aside from these minor quirks, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a very exciting, pretty realistic 
 online multiplayer game that should be bought by anyone that enjoys large multiplayer FPS matches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustHawkeye
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 31, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-The Graphics for Battlefield have gone up quite a bit and look fantastic on the xbox 360. 
 granted there are better looking games out there this game isn't bad. lighting is what you can 
 expect, the character models look great with detail all over them, the vehicles are wonderfully 
 made up and the impact bullets have on the enviroment is cool. even though im rating this game 
 in the spring of 2007 the graphics i can still say are good.
  
  Sound- the sound for this game is about what every military shooter should sound like and i'm not 
 going to go into full detail on it but it has the impact of a shotgun and the effect of a helicopter 
 overhead down tight.
  
  Entertainment-this game is very fun on live and i would reccomend it to anyone who loves huge fights 
 over live. i love to play this on live even though you can die rather easily it is still an amazing 
 experience that shouldn't be missed.
  
  Story-the story in this game is crap and i know you've probably heard that alot but it seriously 
 is with little excitment except for the mission where it was basically d-day for the chinese was 
 fun. the hot swapping feature is good but has down falls, heres he main reason because you can 
 hotswap, they make the characters you play as extremely weak and you will die very often. also 
 don't let me get started on the AI i swear i am up in a tower with a turret and my buddies about 
 ten of them charge into combat and all get massacre and you can't stop them! the feeling that the 
 enemy AI is better than your Buddy AI is very present! also i didn't know that in war random enemies 
 can just pop out of know where who da thought.
  
  Multiplayer- all im going to say is fantastic and a joy on live almost makes up for the story but 
 not quite. there is alot to say but just know its very fun with eleven other soldiers on your side 
 fighting the opposing team.
  
  Replayability-multiplayer YES story NOOOO! i almost ripped out my xbox 360 and threw it out the 
 window because of the story and how hard it was! and thats not a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way first....... yes, the single-player campaign blows. And yes, the graphics 
 aren't much of an upgrade over the Xbox version. In fact, most people I have talked to are only 
 playing through the single-player game to get the achievements. And that's the third thing I have 
 a problem with here...... the achievements suck!! Even the online achievements are stupid and too 
 hard to get for the amount of points rewarded. But, more on that later. To be blunt, if you are 
 looking for a fun shooter to play online, then 'Battlefield 2' is a great example of how much fun 
 Xbox Live can be. Other than that, the game is a retread of a game that came out a couple years 
 ago and it's not much fun by yourself.
  
  You can see that they really tried with the single-player game, but it just didn't work out. The 
 'Hotswap' feature is nice, but the CPU A. I. is not. Your allies are terrible and can't hit the 
 broad-side of a barn with a beachball. And instead of making the CPU A. I. good, they just throw 
 a TON of stupid grunts at you with excellent aim and they make your single-player life hell. Basically, 
 the single-player game lacks structure (the storyline is lame and ripped off from almost every 
 Tom Clancy game..... which is not a compliment) , intensity, characters, and..... well..... fun. And 
 if it isn't fun, then well, it doesn't get played.
  
  The online portion of this game is obviously the selling point here. And in that regard, 'Battlefield 
 2' doesn't disappoint. The game did annoy me due to it's arcade feel and the 'anyone can pick up 
 and play' type of gameplay. But for the most part, this is a really fun game that will have you 
 playing it for hours on end. I just wish some thought was put into the online achievements and 
 then this game would be unstoppable. But alas, that's not the case here.
  
  I rarely get annoyed with a game because of the achievements. I like the harder ones, but this 
 game is ridiculous. Would this game be fun without the achievements included? Yes, it would be. 
 But since they are here, at least make them somewhat fun to attain. In fact, I would ban all online 
 achievements except for in games like this, as most people just boost to get them and I consider 
 that cheating. But 'Battlefield 2' basically begs you to boost as you almost have ZERO hope of 
 getting most of these. EA should have taken a cue from Rare on how they did the online achievements 
 for 'Perfect Dark Zero' and then we would have had something here.
  
  The graphics here are o. k., but definately disappointing considering the system it's running on. 
 The weapons all look excellent in your hands &amp; the game isn't really horrible in any way, but 
 you can tell this was an original Xbox game first. While waiting to spawn in, just watch one of 
 the characters ice skate around the map and you will know what I mean.
  
  The music is good and what little voice acting that there is in the game is solid. The guns and 
 SFX all sound authentic. And even though I didn't care for the single-player campaign, it will 
 keep you busy for awhile if you want it to (mainly due to there being ZERO save or checkpoints 
 mid-level, so you have to restart all the time..... my biggest pet-peeve in gaming) &amp; the online 
 multiplayer will eat up countless hours of your life. It's just disappointing that this doesn't 
 feel like a next-gen game, the single player sucks, and the achievements are a let down. But I 
 am eagerly awaiting the next entry in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolfobaja
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 30, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Since its introduction a few years ago, Electronic Arts Battlefield series has been quite popular 
 on the PC. It features addictive gameplay, lots of variety and gigantic online sorties. When it 
 was brought to consoles as Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, it had many of the same elements, though 
 with obvious sacrifices to graphics, audio and the number of players in online matches. On the 
 surface, the Xbox 360s single-player Campaign content and gameplay are essentially the same as 
 the Xbox version. If youve played the previous game, you might not find enough fresh to warrant 
 the purchase. As noted, the look and sound of the game have been upped in the move to the newer, 
 more powerful platform. Of course, the newly spawned category of gamer well call Achievementeersand 
 you know who you arewill have another 1000 points available for the taking. Theyre spread out 
 across 46 goals, with a good mix of tasks in the single-player Campaign and from online action, 
 so youll have your hands full trying to snatch all of them up. Multiplayer offers a number of 
 large maps for its gameplay modes (Capture the Flag and Conquest) , so the battles dont feel like 
 theyre all crammed into a small space. Sure, youll end up clumped up with the opposition frequently, 
 but theres as much chance to get a bit strategic and work your way toward the firefights. The 
 placement of numerous vehicles around the map also enables you to quickly close the distance from 
 flag to flag, and adds an interesting dynamic to the combat (though there are also plenty of obstacles 
 that make it a challenge to get where you want to go without suffering a lot of damage) . Modern 
 Combat includes all the maps that came with the Xbox version, as well as the supplemental ones 
 that were released later via online download. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbond904
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Campaign: awsome, the only flaw is that the levels are to easy. the quickswap is the best thing 
 ever (I wish that that speed and feel could be added to sonic games) it is so fast and gives you 
 a sense of speed and you feel as if you were getting away from alll the fighting (especially if 
 your guy was just about to die) . Online: the bad thing about online is that there isn't enough 
 helicpters to go around. I wish you could swap weapons with other players. and If only the players 
 didn't move so fast and the explosives blew up faster and moved faster (like the rockets) . overall: 
 this game is far worth getting and should be picked up bby all X360 owners and you must have xbox 
 live to completly enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotRod2142
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 15, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best on online play but the story mode is no fun at all!!!
  some reasoin they made the story mode harder on the 360 because i rented for ps2 and i beat the 
 game but on the 360 i'm stuck on the 3rd level! also the online play is the best! the best map 
 is bridge too far but the bad part is every time i play there always playing backstab it's a pretty 
 good map but it get enoying if u play it like a 100 times a day! but maybe bad comany well have 
 better offline play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 15, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great multiplayer, 24 player matches, some good weapons, most achievements are challenging to obtain, 
 excellent music.
  
  The Bad:
  Campaign is too hard, voice acting sounds like they hired people that were only there for the complimentary 
 donuts and coffee, online multiplayer level changing load times are annoying, vehicles are a pain 
 to control and get destroyed too easily, helicopters and tanks are way to difficult to control, 
 multiplayer levels aren't too memorable other then Backstab and Bridgetoofar.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  The gameplay takes quite a long time to get used to, the vehicles are a pain in 
 the you know what to get used to and the awkward controls are hard to figure out since the game 
 gives you no tutorial on how to play. The best part about the gameplay is the online multiplayer, 
 other then that the campaign itself is highly unmemorable and is pretty difficult to play through. 
 Graphics: 8
  The best part about the game is the environments, the levels all look pretty nice (perhaps other 
 than the water) but the character models could use some improvement. The animations move pretty 
 awkwardly and for all the shaking the gun does you'd think your character is a spaz. The vehicles 
 don't look all too nice, but they get what they need to done and there's not too much to complain 
 about there.
  
  Sound: 7
  The voice acting is completely and utterly awful and makes you want to just turn the sound on mute, 
 you probably would if it weren't for the awesome music. Much of the music expands to different 
 genres, all instrumental and it sounds very nice and fits in nicely with what you're doing most 
 of the time, if it weren't for the music the sound in this game would be pretty bad.
  
  Value: 6
  The value is primarily low because of the highly difficult and lacking campaign. The 
 campaign is way too difficult to get through and you'll find yourself confused and dying a lot 
 for the entirety of the game, it's rare for you to get through an entire mission without dying. 
 The AI of your teammates is terrible, you have to be a pretty good player to be able to get through 
 the mission yourself, because your teammates will probably die early on. You'll also be lucky if 
 you get through a mission with all of your teammates alive, if any. Another bad thing about the 
 campaign is that since there is hotswapping there is little to no story, you mainly just are given 
 the goal at the beginning of the mission and then set out to do it. If the game focused on an individual 
 or a group of individuals rather then playing through the game with swapping through different 
 no-names then it'd have been better. Keep in mind, the hotswapping usually helps you out a lot 
 when you're in a though position.
  
  Really the only good thing that brings up the value is the online multiplayer, and if it weren't 
 for that then the game itself would be terrible and lacking in all areas. The 24 player matches 
 are intense and exciting to play through, especially in Conquest, which seems to be a fan favorite 
 (especially since it's the only game type I've ever been able to get into.) The online multiplayer 
 seems to be very popular among Xbox Live users, many people have no achievements at all for the 
 Campaign and then have many for Online.
  
  Final Words:
  If you're looking for a fun online game to play and are a fan of FPS games, then this is probably 
 a game to go for. If you like using vehicles in FPS games, then this probably isn't a game for 
 you, and if you don't like online then you're best off steering far away from this game. Overall, 
 Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a decent game, and while the campaign lacks and is difficult, the 
 online multiplayer is a fun and memorable experience to be had. There's fun to be found in the 
 game's campaign, but not much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapstickick12
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 9, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat Reveiw (Xbox 360, Xbox, and PS2)
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  When gamers 
 talk about online shooters a few great games come into mind such as, Halo, SOCOM, Ghost Recon, 
 Call of Duty, and most importantly the Battlefield series. The Battlefield series deffidently evolved 
 from when it first started with Battlefield 1942, which won Game of The Year in 2002. Then Battlefield 
 2 won best PC game in 2005. When developer DICE annouced that the Battlefield legacy was coming 
 to Xbox 360, Xbox, and PS2, the fans were all excited but the question is.... In the end, did it 
 live up to the hype?
  
  Battlefield: Modern Combat (B: MC) hit Xbox and PS2 in fall of 2005 and the Xbox 360 version was 
 released in the spring of 2006. All three versions of B: MC are pretty much the same game. The only 
 differences is the graphical presentation for the Xbox 360 version. The Xbox and PS2 versions of 
 the game are identical.
  
  The plot of B: MC is basically the US is trying to claim territory in Kazakhstan and the Chinese 
 are trying to do the same thing. You will be playing both, the US and the Chinese armies. The player 
 will see both sides of the battle and at the end of the game you will basically choose you wins 
 the war. It sounds very good on paper but it all just doesnt come together in the game. The story 
 doesnt really go anywhere and you dont follow any specific person.
  
  The single players gameplay is kinda interesting. DICE put in this hot swapping feature which enables 
 players to be anyone on the battlefield. Basically you just put your cursor over one of your allied 
 soldiers and press a button. Then it will have this soul possession sequence for a second and then 
 bam you are that player. It is a very cool feature but it makes the game really easy because if 
 you are almost dead with that soldier, you can just hot swap and then you have full life again.
 
  
  In B: MC, there are five different classes to choose from which are, Assault, Sniper, SMG, Support, 
 and Engineer. Each of the five classes there are special abilities each class can do. For example, 
 if you are the Support class, you can call in airstrikes anywhere while the SMG class has C4. Their 
 is really not to many guns to choose from in the game. You have the standard assault rifle, sniper 
 rifle, shotgun, support weapon, SMG, pistols, and a rocket. Thats pretty much it. Not to exciting. 
 But what is a very good plus is the vehicles you get. You can get hummers, dune buggies, tanks, 
 snow mobiles (only in the Xbox 360 version) , and my personal favorite, the helicopter. All of the 
 vehicles in the single player and multiplayer feel really clunky and sluggish. Compared to the 
 PC Battlefield games, B: MC's vehicles is a HUGE step backwards.
  
  The graphics to the Xbox and PS2 versions are nothing to brag about. The soldiers look all muddy 
 and low polygon count while the scenary looks all cartoony and faded. The player animations such 
 as walking and going prone look really awkward at times also. All the vehicles look like they were 
 in some type of wreck and the explosions to the vehicles look absolutely insulting. The Xbox 360 
 fixes some of these problems but then creates more. The soldiers deffidently look spot on, especially 
 in HD. All of the guns look pretty much good. They did try to fix some of the rag doll effects 
 the lured in the other two versions but in the end it just created more problems. I noticed I shot 
 someone with the shotgun and that player flew 1000 feet in the air and never came back down.
  
  The sound to the game is absolutely horrible. The voice acting is really bad and the gun sounds 
 are pretty muffled. Even the soundtrack to the game is really bad. The soundtrack just doesnt add 
 up to the games intensity.
  
  The AI in B: MC is nothing more than broken. Both teammates and enemies are just completely broken. 
 Your teammates have trouble staying behind cover and figuring out what to do next. The enemy AI 
 is even worse. I would find myself standing right next to a group of enemies and they didnt fire 
 a single shot at me. Another big flaw is that I would find my teammates and enemies spawn right 
 on top of me. Out of no where you will just see a new guy spawn. DICE really should of took the 
 time and made their spawn points in buildings or something. All three versions of the game has 
 this AI problem but on the Xbox 360 version they are a little smarter but still really really bad.
 
  
  Every gamer out there knows that the multiplayer is where all Battlefield games shine well B: MC 
 isnt no different. B: MC supports 24 player ranked and unranked matches online or LAN. The multiplayer 
 features are pretty good. You have clan support, friends lists, and even a Battlefield HQ for all 
 the latest news. BF: MC has only two game modes which are Conquest and CTF. Most players just play 
 Conquest since it is much better than CTF. Conquest mode is basically both teams trying to capture 
 command posts and the more command posts you have the faster the enemies reinforcements go down. 
 Once the opposing team has zero reinforcements left, the game is over.
  
  The online play shows a little life to the game but there are alot of problems that lay in there. 
 The lag to all three versions is no escaping at times and the guns seem not to powerful online. 
 It seems like i have to shoot a guy a million times in the face to kill someone with the assault 
 rifle. The framerate holds its ground for the most part. You will notice some slow down in the 
 Xbox and PS2 versions. The Xbox 360 version doesnt have any type of framerate issues what so ever.
 
  So in the end I guess the question is..... Is the game worth picking up? Since all three versions 
 of the game have a budget price tag, which helps overlook some of the problems, its deffidently 
 worth checking into. However..... is it worth the money to get frustrated and wanting to throw 
 the game out the window? I guess it is hard to recommend Battlefield: Modern Combat when there 
 are alot of better modern day shooters out there....
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Xbox and 
 PS2 Versions
  
  Gameplay- 7.... Decent try but way to many probelms.
  
  Sound- 6.5.... Absoluetley embaressing for a Battlefield game. Why couldnt DICE port the sounds 
 from BF2 into B: MC?
  
  Graphics- 6.8.... Another letdown for the game. Muddy players and low polygons really hurt the 
 game. Really creepy animations.
  
  Replay- 7.5.... Decent multiplayer that gives some replay for a little bit. Really bad single player. 
 Some players might see the light at the end of the tunnel but that light might be a frieght train 
 coming back at you....
  
  Overall (Not Average) - 7/10
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Xbox 360 
 Version
  
  Gameplay- 7.8.... Fixed some of the major issues in the other two versions but then creates more.
 
  
  Sound- 6.5.... Absoluetley embaressing for a Battlefield game. Why couldnt DICE port the sounds 
 from BF2 into B: MC?
  
  Graphics- 8.... Overall very nice. All players and vehicals look really detailed. Some of the sceanry 
 looks washed out. Some creepy animations.
  
  Replay- 7.8.... Decent multiplayer that gives some replay for a little bit. Really bad single player. 
 Overall (Not Average) - 7.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  The Champaign part of the game is very hard and will take a while to get use to. I don't really 
 like games like that, become to hard and not enjoyable. I like the idea of swapping to another 
 ai and continue the fight, but the game does not deliver the fun. Mainly it'll deliver fustrations 
 and confusions.
  
  The Online Multiplayer is really fun, having quite a few people come online and shoot like crazy. 
 A lot of different location to shoot, and lots of vehicle to drive to ur desire spot in the area. 
 The Achievements in this game is so stupid, i mean, kill 30 people online without being killed. 
 Thats kinda hard having more than 16 players online shooting and repair 5 different vehicles in 
 online and offline gaming. Man i can go all day about the achievements but i won't bother, u get 
 the idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 5
Date: May 4, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that all this game has going for it are the graphics. And even THAT cant compare 
 with some of the games that are coming out now. I believe the problem with this game is that it's 
 too chaotic. Sometimes you cant tell whats going on or whats happening next. I must admitt that 
 the multiplayer mode isn't that bad but the single player mode wasn't what i expected at all. I 
 tryed it and just moved on. I can see by the ratings that other people seem to enjoy it so maybe 
 its better than i make it sound but i guess you will just have to try it for yourself. Maybe you 
 will enjoy it more than i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-CA
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Modern combat sound like the pc battlefield 2, but even since bf2 on the pc got more stuff like 
 squad, commander mode and so on, modern combat is better anyway.
  
  This game has good feel of running around shooting, and there are 5 diffrent kits you can play 
 as, Spec op, Support, Assault, Sniper and enigneer.
  
  The game is very well design, specialy if you compare it wit hthe xbox and ps2 verison. The sound 
 is really next-gen, amazing but the voice of the chinese = ugly, uh! It has an perfect gameplay, 
 specialy the multiplayer game and value as well. But the games is a bit laggy on an HD TV, perfer 
 the normal TV for this game, with 60 hz setting. It has good graphic, but some bugs and glitch's 
 tho.
  
  Whats really diffrent and cool with modern combat then all other battlefield games is that it got 
 SINGLE PLAYER for the first time.
  It's about 20 missions, it's soild missions, cuz the most of them you have 1 objective, now try 
 diffrent ways to complete it. And of course the hotswap, simple and amazing feature. You point 
 at a friendly unit, press the button and the camera zooms in to him, then you are him. In the single 
 player it's a war in Kazakhstan between the NATO army and CHINA army. You can play as both sides. 
 The singleplayer is pretty short, but almost evertying is fun to replay. It has also good ranking 
 system.
  
  But single palyer is NOT the main thing with it. The outstanding multiplayer action you find in 
 here makes it soomthing that you never played before. There are 2 game modes, Conquest and CTF. 
 The Conquest mode is the main mode, and mainly the mode in all Battlefield games. And this multiplayer 
 is just AWESOME fun.
  
  The achivments for this game is very good and hard. An example, kill 10 without dying with an assault 
 kti. Or just 500 games played totalt, and these kinds of achivments is really hard... There are 
 500 gamescore you can earn in the singleplayer and 500 in the multiplayer.
  
  I cant stop playign this, it's to fun! This game is a must have, and specialy if you looking for 
 a soild, fun, modern, next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is a arcade style fps that takes place with war technologies that can 
 be seen in battle today. However, compared to previous games like Battlefield 2 I found myself 
 wondering where all of the good elements of the game have dissapeared to. Jets are non-existant 
 in Battlefield 2 Modern Combat, which was a major dissapointment for me. Along with jets missing, 
 EA decided to alter the kits of each class, and added new useless vehicles to the maps like snowmobiles, 
 and 30 mm vehicles that can ride along with tanks. Since EA added a laser targeter to the sniper 
 class, these vehicles are often death traps and rather useless in the game. Helicopters are also 
 rather cheap in the game on certain maps, especially where there are the smaller meatball helicopters 
 that are more agile and faster. Helo's are extremely hard to shoot out of the air unless there 
 is an AA missle shooter nearby, but unfortunately the AA turrets are very few. EA also removed 
 the general and squad elements in the game. Since there are no squad elements, unless you are in 
 a clan then everyone on your team is pretty much fighting themselves and has no teamwork. They 
 set the artillery strikes on fixed points on maps so that anyone can call down shells to eleminate 
 any threats on the map in a hail of explosions. In order to avoid getting blown up by artillery 
 strikes, a player must run into a building in order to survive. However this often seems bugged, 
 numerous times I have walked under cover or into buildings that should of protected me only to 
 have me blown into pieces. The singleplayer portion of Modern Combat is just a dissapointment. 
 Certain levels are nearly impossible to complete, and it's just not fun to play at all. There is 
 a very shallow story plot, and the ai in the singleplayer is just bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj729
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is a modern First-Person-Shooter; and not much else. The greatest thing about the whole 
 game is the fact that it is on the Xbox 360. Other, then that it is completely uninspired with 
 the graphics of the 360 keep it from being completely horrible. the realism of the equipment helps 
 you enjoy moments but it seems rather uncontrolled and chaotic even in the most simplest events. 
 If you played the game for the sheer imagery of the promotions than you will be pleased, however 
 if you expected more you will be sadly disappointed. The multiplayer is also another feature that 
 breath life into this bore-fest. The MP will give you a thrill especially when playing with a full 
 room because it will provide you with one the the biggest numbers of players on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  In this battlefield game it is set in the near future. The campaign in this game is lacking a story 
 line, but with the AI, it's almost like your playing online, except you get more achievements, 
 lol... The online though, thats what really shines on this game. Still to date, there are plenty 
 of people playing online, and do you want to know why? The game is simply, addictive... VERY fun. 
 The maps are huge, and with as many as 32 people strolling around it can get hectic. The only real 
 complaint I have about this game is online there are a lot of spawn campers, and a lot of people 
 just waiting around for the helicopter to re spawn (The best vehicle) . The game is a vehicle based 
 game, thats for sure, but the on foot part is great too... Simply put, this game will never get 
 old........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickybran
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. I first got into it on the PS2, now I have it on the 360 and it's 
 even better. I've read reviews for this game which have been really negative, because they always 
 concentrate on the campaign side of the game, I totally agree that it's really not worth buying 
 if you aren't going to play this online, but online is amazing. I've also read that compared to 
 the PC version the maps are a lot smaller, I personally think the map sizes are fine and they don't 
 need to be any bigger. There's so much you can do in this game, you can rush in there and battle 
 it out face to face, or hang back, snipe people from 100's of metres away, make use of air strikes, 
 mortar strikes etc. Or fly around in a chopper, blast people away in tanks, drive car bombs into 
 people.
  
  I actually prefer this to Gears, Gears to me is too linear and gets a bit repetative after a while 
 (still a great game though) .
  
  This one of the most underrated games on the PS2/360. I'd give it a 9!
  
  Ricobran 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper20001
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is almost amazing but not quite because of the fact that it might as well be an expansion 
 pack. All the game is even though i think its really fun is the same as the other games but with 
 different skins for vehicles and players as well as different maps. For the consoles like the 360 
 you get a campaign mode that has some pretty cool visuals for switching characters but not much 
 else with its crappy save system that makes you restart entire levels because of the lack of checkpoints 
 (there arent any.) Anyways it is pretty cool in campaign getting to see the point of view of both 
 sides (the Nato and Chinese) and getting to pick who you believe should win the war in the end. 
 The game is also pretty cool because of the surprise twist ending that i believe hardly anyone 
 saw coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 modern combat was released for Xbox and ps2 in 2005 and now comes to 360 a year later. 
 Not much has changed but I will say that the graphics are top notch, Maybe not the Best but Good. 
 The Main meat of the Game is the online play which is 24 players online (12 vs 12 ) . The Singleplayer 
 in Bf is decent but you could finish it in a day or two. What makes the Single-Player unique is 
 the fact of Hotswapping, And if your scraching your head and asking What the F*** does that mean, 
 I tell you. Hotswapping means that you swap soliders with you on the field, Whether there in a 
 chopper or tank or etc you can switch to them. Now To the best part and yes Like I said before 
 The fun and excitement is online, There are about 6 differnt classes to choose from, and on differnt 
 levels theres differnt armies against each other (4 in all) . Any vehicale you see you can drive, 
 from cilvian cars, pickup trucks, tanks, choppers, jeeps and more. The weapons in here fire Right 
 and feel right, and there are no over powering weapons. All in all Bf2 for 360 is A great Game If 
 you have online, if you dont then rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flog_man62
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok.. if you don't have this game right now then you're wasting your life ok? got that? why you 
 ask? ok... here it goes I'll tell you why...
  
  I honestly think this is the most underrated game of all time... the ratings fall far below games 
 i've yet to really be able to say I just loved... I first played this on the playstation 2 and 
 loved it then... the only lacking thing were graphics... I got a xbox 360 not long ago and almost 
 immediately got BF2: MC... I have to say from the reviews I'd had my doubts... But I have to say 
 I was ridiculously impressed.... I know it says I have only put in 10-20 hours on this one but 
 I just got it 2 days ago so you can crunch the numbers there.... now that i've yammered on for 
 awhile here is my breakdown review. *drum roll*
  
  Graphics::: Ok.. graphics are my only issue with this game to be honest.. they are great but when 
 you've played other greats like GRAW and GOW they just arent up to par... but they are good especially 
 on an HDTV.
  
  Gameplay::: Alright... gameplay wise this one surpasses them all... in my opinion it even beats 
 out the socoms for immersiveness (if thats a word lol) never in a game have I really just felt 
 like the battle if not the war was all around me... and its not just a gunshot here.. grenade there.. 
 you have to play it to really get it but the whole time you play there are explosions and choppers 
 and tanks all around you pretty much all the time.. its amazing... Also there is a great medals/ribbons 
 ranking system in the game on both XBL on the single player campaign... aside from the game itself 
 its alot of fun just trying to earn medals and rank up ect.
  
  Sound::: In my opinion the sound in this game is really what makes it all come together.. I dont 
 really know how to say it other than it really does sound as if you're right there... on the Battlefield.. 
 no pun intended...
  
  Value::: 30 bucks and you could play it for hours and hours and it'll virtually never get old... 
 what more can I say.
  
  XBL Play::: Ok.. since this games basically made for XBL I might as well bring it up... first of 
 all.. if you dont have LIVE then I really don't think you'll enjoy this game even half as much 
 as you would with LIVE... the game even feels like it was made for online.. which in that aspect 
 it is topped the charts in my book... theres hardly ever lag.. its always easy to get in a game 
 (no waiting lobbies heck yes) and theres always still alotta people online... my only problem here 
 is the lack of communication you've probably read about in the forums.. but if you hook up with 
 the right people or just get lucky and find people who accually talk.. then the voice chat works 
 fine.
  
  All in all.. if you have XBL then you should get this game.. you won't regret it..
  and if you 
 dont have XBL.. then get out there and get an account card and BF2: MC and believe me.. it'll be 
 worth it to ya.
  
  feel free to add me if you get this game or already have it and want an achievement partner or 
 just someone to play with....
  
  See you on the Battlefield 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wh1te_m4trix
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The Multiplayer is awesome as seen on the previous versions for the ps2 and the Xbox. The graphics 
 have improved (a lot) from the previous version I played on the ps2. I consider it a solid team-based 
 shooter. The only bad thing I found in the multiplayer is that there'ss almost no communication. 
 As previous versions the single player took down the score it deserved. The single player includes 
 three regions: Mangystau, Almaty and Qyzylorda. In the story you play as the army of China and 
 the NATO forces. The game has 46 achievements. They include around 23 online achievements and 23 
 single player achievements. Solid Multiplayer but bad Single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAP_Bohica
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this is the game that made me buy a 360. First I will start on campaign mode. The 
 hot swapping feature is just nothing less than awesome. Your start the first mission dropping in 
 on a parachute to instant anarchy. There is so many things exploding my mind was not able to register 
 it all in. One minute youre driving a tank shooting people the next youre an assault infantry 
 man taking out enemies. Another cool feature I love is accelerated gun fire. If you shoot enough 
 enemies and keep the multiplier your health and gunfire increase. If you get good at it you can 
 become almost become superhuman. Enough about campaign now on to multiplayer where this game really 
 keeps you locked in. You have two choices conquest or capture the flag. Capture the flag is pretty 
 much self explanatory. But conquest is awesome your goal is to capture as many flags on the map 
 and hold them until your enemies ticket counter reaches zero. Vehicles include tanks, armored cars, 
 humvees, and helicopters. Helicopters require a little practice to master but once your good at 
 it forget it. You alone can change the tide of the entire match. Tanks are good way to get some 
 quick kills but if the enemy has placed mines and has some good engineers forget it your toast 
 in a tank. Humvees are a good way to get close to enemy flags fast. Armored vehicles are also good 
 but not as fast and agile as a humvee.
  
  Weapons you begin having a choice to spawn into the match as a sniper, engineer, spec ops, assault, 
 or support troop. Snipers are a good way to start the multiplayer and figure out how the online 
 action works. You pick a good snipe position take out your enemy and use your gps device to show 
 your team mates where the enemy is. Engineer is good for taking out tanks with rockets and laying 
 landmines. Assault troop is good for infiltrating flags and using smoke as cover to confuse the 
 enemy. Spec ops is probably the online favorite you have a decent zoom feature on your weapon and 
 c-4 to booby trap flags, cars, and take out tanks, ohh and lets not forget flash bangs. Support 
 troop you are a medic troop who can heal team mates, call in mortor attacks, and did I mention 
 carries a trench gun, so much for Geneva Conventions huh. Well with all that being said I personally 
 find this game very entertaining and addictive. I believe everyone who is into first person shooters 
 should buy this game and join the fun online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta-08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  First Let me tell you how the game evolved or changed the xbox version was also amazing except 
 for the graphics and all... but it was still a great game. Now the 360's version they modified the 
 graphics into a better scenario the field is way better more alive explosion here and there also 
 the snow. The best part would be the weapons and switching positions to a different troop like 
 lets say you started as an assault trooper you could imidietly switch your position to a different 
 troop like sniper, special ops, engineer, and support. Each of this troops carry a specific weapon 
 for certain jobs like engineer you could use them as repair or blow up choppers from the freakin 
 sky or support to aid your injured soldiers..... So when you get this game make sure your skilled 
 enough and know how to use strategies in the field Soldier over and out ...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BB72691
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  In Battlefield 2 for the 360, they took away some of the less common maps and replaced them, even 
 though these maps were less common, they were still the best maps. In this updated version of the 
 game, it has better graphics, more vehicles , more maps, new harder medals to keep you playing all 
 night long. I would like to say to all ppl who loved Battledield 2 for the ps2 and xbox, this game 
 is worth buying for your 360. When I got my 360, I first bought gears of war, lost planet, and 
 other **** like that. Well after about three months i decided to buy battlefield 2, since then 
 i haven't gotten off the game. Once i saw the graphics and the new online play i was hooked. Now 
 when you get medals you get achievements. All medals are possible to get without cheating. So if 
 you are a hardcore fan or just a achievement hog this is the game for you. Hope this review helped 
 you. Your Welcome, Trashtalker420 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onetetsuok
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Real quick, let's take a look...
  
  Controls: Take some time to get used to. Fans of its PC counterpart are gonna want an XFPS 360 
 so they can bring their mouse and keyboard along for the ride, however you wont get the same feel 
 as the PC no matter what you try. With that said, once you get the controller scheme down youll 
 be fine, just feels a bit slow and laggy at times.
  
  Graphics: Decent graphics, the game flows nicely without slowdown must have a good frame-rate.
 
  
  Story: Nobody buys this game for the story, so dont expect one thats engaging. The campaign is 
 lacking enough as it is in content and it doesnt try to revive itself with an amazing plot.
  
  Gameplay: Its in the Multiplayer. Battlefield 2 relies on its hectic, fast-paced multiplayer 
 to pull off an enjoyable game experience.
  
  What I want in a game: I want fast paced action, gunfire, missiles raining down, snipers, helicopter 
 rides/hijacking, grenades, C4, mines, screaming, bodies flying through the air, tanks and gun turrets. 
 Battlefield 2 gives me what I want. In multiplayer that is. As far as the campaign goes, hopefully 
 EA will get it right next time, but as it stands now it disappoints. Why should I get it?: 1. Because 
 you have Xbox LIVE and you cant wait to fly a helicopter with 8 of your buddies screaming at you 
 BAIL OUT!!! INCOMING MISSILE!!! BAIL THE H$*% out!!!.
  2. Because you wanna be that guy standing on a bridge with a rocket launcher, watching the chopper 
 you just NAILED rain down around you with a smirk on your face.
  
  You probably already have it, but if you dont, get it. Just make sure you're doing it with LIVE 
 in mind.
  
  ~Snake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Well balanced multiplayer gameplay (like the BF series is known for) ; Famous conquest mode 
 is great; CTF is solid; Conquest maps are well sized to allow for battles and breathing room with 
 24 players; Still lots of players online; Extra features on the 360 not found on the PS2 (some 
 are on the Xbox) ; 3 bonus levels already on the game (on Xbox you needed to download them) ; Upgraded 
 graphics look pretty sharp on the 360; Voice chat; Rank System (that you dont have to use)
  
  Cons: Single player is quite dull; CTF maps are shrunken down to the point where you cant 
 move 4 feet without being shot in a full game; Announcer is annoying; Annoying people (people who 
 refuse to work as a team, glitch-abusers, teamkillers, whiny kids who dont use the microphone 
 for anything good, etc)
  
  The Battlefield series has always been quite solid. It started with the fantastic BF1942, dropped 
 a little bit in quality but still remained quite fun in BFVietnam, returned up to glory with BF2, 
 and here it finally comes to consoles with Battlefield 2 Modern Combat. If you expect this to be 
 the best entry, then you will be disappointed, but if you expect this to be another solid entry, 
 and one that you can play off of the computer, then you should buy this.
  
  Actually, I should rephrase that: if you have online Xbox Live Gold, then you should buy this. 
 Single player is quite a drag, and I wont really recommend it even to those who dont have online. 
 Its basically a bunch of missions that involve killing enemies (mindless enemies) as you move 
 from point A to point B and often do something along the way. Though the Xbox 360 version is more 
 polished, it isnt more entertaining unfortunately.
  
  You also get the unique hotswapping ability that lets you switch between your many soldiers (you 
 are in an army after all) , complete with a cool visual effect. Its a cool idea, and works well, 
 youll just wish it was implemented in a less half-baked single player.
  
  However, switch to online, and the game is suddenly worth playing. On the 360 you get additional 
 features not in the other games, specifically, you get 3 maps not in the PS2 version, as well as 
 an online friends list, and only on the 360 version, you get the typical Xbox 360 game features. 
 Online you get 2 modes, Conquest and CTF (sorry, no deathmatch for those players who kill anything 
 that moves instead of helping the team) .
  
  CTF is standard, and you should know what to expect. Unfortunately, the maps are shrunken (which 
 sounds good, knowing that it will be more intense fighting for the flag) , but to the point where 
 you cant move without being shot, or you can drive a vehicle over and take the flag in seconds. 
 Its not completely bad, but youll wish there was a little more room, and less vehicles.
  
  Conquest (the most famous Battlefield mode) requires a little more explanation, but is much 
 better implemented. In Conquest, there are 2 teams which each have tickets (respawns) , and your 
 goal is to run the opposing teams tickets out, or have more when time runs out. Each kill you 
 make takes one ticket off of the enemys team, but there are hundreds of tickets, which would mean 
 that the rounds would always end off of time limits if it werent for flags. On each level, there 
 are flags (spawning points) , which you try to capture. Capture more than half the flags, and the 
 other teams tickets start going down at a steady rate (the more flags the faster) . On a side note, 
 usually you cant capture one base (each team has an uncapturable base) , but on some levels, one 
 team starts with more flags (instead of just 1) , and the other team can capture all of the flags 
 for an instant win.
  
  Conquest modes maps are much bigger, and better. They give you plenty of maneuvering room without 
 being shot, yet in many cases, small enough space so that you wont be running too long before 
 reaching another base. Even if it were to take long running, you can use one of the many well balanced 
 vehicles (a staple of Battlefield) to drive.
  
  The vehicles are standard combat fare. You have the jeeps that let you cover area fast. You have 
 tanks that can blow through almost anything (but are killed easily by explosive items other than 
 grenades maybe) . And there are helicopters (which occasionally feel too strong, only if because 
 they are hard to shoot) , and the anti-air units that make taking them down simple. Add boats and 
 other small vehicles on some levels, and you have the vehicles.
  
  Other than with the helicopter, nothing in the game ever really feels too strong (infantry and 
 vehicles) . Theres multiple rock-paper-scissors style balances here. For instance, Tank kills infantry 
 easily, anything explosive (engineer infantry in particular) kills the tank, and the engineers 
 are killed by most infantry (due to a weapon that has a very specific area of use) . It may not 
 be that simple, but usually multiple things kill something. And this is supposed to encourage teamwork.
 
  
  However, it should be said that many people refuse to cooperate and treat this like a deathmatch. 
 Since this is an online game (and a team based one at that) , experience does depend a lot on players 
 (whom can often be annoying for other reasons too) . When you get a good group willing to cooperate 
 and strategize to try and win, this game fits in with the higher quality online shooters for the 
 Xbox 360. Thankfully (no doubt due to Xbox Live fees) , the problems (besides teamwork issues) arent 
 as bad in this version as the PS2 (although there are less people. I havent played the Xbox version 
 to know how the community fairs there)
  
  Thankfully, however, thats usually the only main problem, as the game has run smooth has far as 
 my experiences go. Like all online games, there is SOME lag, but for the most part, if you have 
 a decent internet connection, you should run this smoothly.
  
  The graphics on the Xbox 360 version are redone and they look great. The graphics are much sharper 
 with more advanced lighting effects. You still get everything that was good before, plus all this 
 and HD now. Its surprising that a game originally for the last gen looks almost up to par with 
 the current gen games on the 360 now, but BF2MC does it. And best of all, it doesnt overuse light 
 bloom effects.
  
  As far as the sound goes, its 1 problem away from being absolutely great. The announcer is really 
 annoying. He may not seem bad at first, but this isnt the voice that you could bear to hear The 
 enemy has captured flag 2 over and over. Other than that, the sound is generally great. The guns 
 sound like real guns, and although it may get on some players nerves, the tank squeaks, like many 
 tanks would. Theres also music, but thats easily disposable.
  
  Battlefield 2 Modern Combat for the Xbox 360 is the best version. You get everything in the Xbox 
 version, plus better graphics, and some features that are common in Xbox 360 games (such as HD) . 
 If you can get this version and have Xbox Live Gold, then I recommend it. Maybe its not perfect, 
 but if you have Xbox Live and are looking for a new shooter to play, then you cant go wrong with 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cry_wolf121
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I have waited so long to play any of the new Battlefield games, I did have the collection for the 
 PC but did not have enough Video memory for it. This is a really good modern day shooter, in the 
 line with Tom Clanceys gameline. It is fine to learn and some of the instrutions are good and helpful, 
 however, one of the hard parts is that there is no tutoral. You cant get any infomation on how 
 to help out as the Clancy games do. This is a draw back, but not a very big one to whine about. 
 The online playing is grate and while its hard to get rank, its a good thing. One thing it dose 
 need, is a block for cheet cods on line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Arcade glitch-fest, 'nuff said. But, I am Team Black so of course I will say more.
  If you are a fan of Battlefield 2 on PC, stay far, far away from this game. Far. Far. Away. If 
 you are a fan of glitchy, bland,  last-gen graphics, 
 paying-too-much-for-a-game,  blah 
 type games, then this is right up your alley.
  
  If you want to play the game, get the demo from Xbox Live Marketplace. What you get there is all 
 the game has to offer. If you are not satisfied, get the original Xbox version, because the 360 
 version is nothing special; merely another EA attempt at profit at the cost of a good game.
  
  If EA had cared at all about next-gen gamers, they would have ported Battlefield 2 from the 
 PC to the 360 and given players something to be excited about, however, money grubbers will do 
 only what they must to maximize profit, and EA hasleft next-gen gamers out in the cold in this 
 sad, sad, sad, attempt at a port.
  
  Overall, the game does have a short fun value, but this quickly wears off and you are left sitting 
 on your couch wondering why you spent so much money on a game that is bad even for pre-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapidzark
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game probably had the best multiplayer i have ever seen. The weapons are very well balanced 
 and are fun no matter which you choose. Very few little kids encountered when i played, and not 
 many over reactive people either. The servers are well done and make it so most the maps are available 
 to play on. The only thing i would change is the respond waiting time. It gets annoying when it 
 starts at 3 seceonds so you have to choose your class and spawn quickly. If you are too late you 
 are forced to wait 14 seconds, whitch is long in game times. Another thing i would change is the 
 flag locations. They should be in open spaces only to avoid unfair competition. The single player 
 was not that great and could be revamped. Over all its a good game if you like multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I was always intrigued with the battlefield series. I tried getting it on my computer, but it wasn't 
 powerful enough to play a game like battlefield. After getting the 360, I wanted battlefield to 
 be in my collection, but I never got around to it. So finally I saw it at gamestop for about 22 
 dollars, so I decided to give it a try. Well The story is pretty strange, like the usual GRAW or 
 Rainbow six story, and the graphics are pretty nice. You get to drive the vehicles, although the 
 controls are strange, but the gameplay overall is not great. You have to switch from player to 
 player and sometimes it gets confusing, overall it is not fun. The single player mode is difficult, 
 and crappy. I attempted to play this game, and immediately knew that it was not the game for me. 
 I continued to play it, but I began to realize that this is something that I cannot get used to. 
 The multiplayer is a little bit different. I can say that it is a lot more fun compared to the 
 single player mode. The only thing is you have to get used to the controls and killing people because 
 you'll continue to be cannon fodder if you don't. Overall I can say that the game is not great. 
 I suggest that you rent it first and then see if you like it. Its better to play it before you 
 make an investment. I personally heard from other people that this game is awesome, and are extremely 
 addicted to it. I say good for them, and if your one of those people, then this is the game for 
 you. If you are like me, and cannot find the addictive substance of the game, get something else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oger1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is about the americans vs. china. The funny thing was that I didn't notice that you play 
 for both sides. The game starts of easy but later on in the game it gets seriously hard. Even with 
 your weapons upgraded, its like they made the last few levels hard. But if you play online and 
 get even more upgrades it is way easier. But the single player campaign kinda gets boring and the 
 only thing that keeps me playing is the online. You get a good enough hours of game play. Online 
 is fun it has great maps to play in. But the graphics could of been better. Basically you get what 
 you suspect from every battlefield game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedGer9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 : modern combat was my first Xbox 360, it made a huge impact in the buisness gaming 
 world.
  
  if you dont no wht battlefield is then you wont no a simple maths calculation Battlefield has been 
 round for years famous for its multiplayer mayhem, and while it hits next gen consoles they keep 
 on comin
  
  the game is simple, too simple you are given objectives you do the objectives but with the added 
 affect of Rag Dolls woo hoo its slaughtering time, but when i say simple i dont mean easy, and 
 if you are reading this and disagree with me, well to be honest i aint that sad (only messing with 
 you) the games gives you a too reasonable difficulty, but all in favour it makes it realistic,
 
  
  all in favour it has come to my conclusion to yet another compelling review and if you dont like 
 it i dont care, just amkes me look intelligent (joke) well anyway back to my conclusion, this game 
 is a must buy and 1 of the shapest looking games next to Gears Of War on the Xbox 360, so gamers 
 start saving up for a game you need and make sgood training for the army. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwrdstrnsbals
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is got the right mix of seriuos shooter and all out combat. I cant say much about the 
 graphics, they're pretty good, just out shined buy the new crop of next gen titles. Beyond that 
 is a game that delivers a semi-realistic battlefield loaded with all the elements of the real deal. 
 Ready to exploit all the different geographies are a wide variety of combat vehicles, all with 
 multiple positions and guns for passengers. The different types of vehicles also have their own 
 attributes and uses, keeping the action from staying the sameall the time. Another great feature 
 of this game is the different types of kits, allowing players to form self contained combat units 
 with the different loadouts and abilities. All in all this game is a keeper, offering solid online 
 gaming whether you play casualy or go full bore with your own clan to conquer the leaderboard universe. 
 The only thing I didnt like bout this game is the shooting, although intense and fun, it leaves 
 alot to be desired in regards to its overall feel and movement. Other than that go out and get 
 a copy, you'll enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musician2009
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say that I really enjoy all the Battlefield franchise, including the PC games. 
 Second, if you have an Xbox 360, and that's all you have, this would be a definite buy for you, 
 if you like this kind of game, of course. However, if you have an Xbox 360 and, say, a PS2 or an 
 Xbox as well, go for the PS2/Xbox version. They are primarily the same game, and the major difference 
 is graphics. The multiplayer is fun and addictive in both versions, and the gameplay is almost 
 the same. If you want to spend the money on the 360 version, go ahead, but I'm writing this review 
 with budgets of all ranges in mind. So, is this game worth buying in general? The answer is YES. 
 Battlefield 2 boasts addicting gameplay, especially online multiplayer, and the campaign mode is 
 pretty fun as well. I recommend this to anyone looking for a fun shooter. I also noticed that this 
 is one of the few remaining games with multiplayer online for the Xbox/PS2 platforms without the 
 problem of hackers. But that's just my observation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooper182
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  i love battle field online and ever sine i played it for the first time i was hooked! I love the 
 game play and the team and clan modes. you can fly helicopters, drive tanks and use GTAM's to shoot 
 things out of the sky! The only thing i didnt like was the fact you have to capture an area by 
 the flag. dont get me wrong it is fun when you have grenades flying past your head and a enemy 
 respawning right in front of you. it just needed more game modes. The fact there was so many glitchs 
 that people used brought the gameplay down and frustrated me to surrender. but i was greatful they 
 wherent found for about six months after the games release! Now knowing that people just camp and 
 lie in wait for you in these glitchs i wouldnt reccomend it. Offline play isnt special and not 
 worth exploring. All in a great game for its short time on the 360. Thanks for reading. Cooper182 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W3AP0NX619
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  battBased on the blockbuster online multiplayer war Battlefield franchise, EA and developer Digital 
 Illusions are taking the battle to another realm with a modern-war era edition somewhat similar 
 to Battlefield 2 for PCs but developed exclusively for console gamers. Players from the United 
 States, China and the Middle East Coalition will all be represented in harrowing battles of up 
 to 24 players. Command tanks, choppers and any other of more than 30 military vehicles, and make 
 use of more than 70 kinds of weapons (including heat-seaking missles, laser designated bombs and 
 other modern military hardware.) it is the same game for the 360 no difference what so ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outlaw-X13
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  This game's servers have turned to crap, because EA servers just plain suck. Lets hope they dont 
 do this to BF: Bad Company, or MERCS 2. But its still fun gameplay wise!
  
  ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok
  wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pilz-E_Uk
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  graphicly a nice looking game, but it gets boring fast, didnt take long to pick up the gameplay 
 is similar to the PC versions, simple but works. found it was a bit same same, somit i cant put 
 my finger on that it lacked.
  
  + i liked the way u were not a fixed charecter that u could switch when ever u felt u needed to, 
 no boring re spawn times straight to the next guy to jump into the battle. the problem with BF2 
 and the others one PC theres so much running, u can travel along distance without seeing anyone, 
 which this version eliminates which i was happy to see. the guns look pretty good i love the heavy 
 machine gun and the shotgun great fun.
  
  i feel it could of done with squad commands to many times did i see my team mates just run off 
 and get shot by the gun inplacement, over and over again if it was there mission to do so, your 
 allies A. I seams less inteligent then the enemies A. I, i find the game to repetative.
  
  is worth a look but it doesnt live up to the PC battlefields. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I can't say its Revolutionizing because it isn't, surprisingly.
  
  The gameplay is just set right, this is what modern combat was met to feel like, you don't feel 
 to slow or fast, you feel like you in the middle.
  
  The graphics are miles from good, there superb, there like brad pitt to woman, (sorry for the discrimination 
 but thats the best I could come up with...) The Levels are detailed, character models have a higher 
 pixel density then most games do (aka Land of the Dead, ps - I liked the game, don't judge me for 
 that.) .
  
  Sound is a bit akward at times, then again, its pretty good, the weapon sound effects are tuned 
 just right for everything, the voice acting though is a bit dramatic, but it doesn't matter to 
 me because I don't care for voice acting.
  
  This game is for tactical shooter fans, and the more generic shooting fans, everyone else should 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Well, despite all the nay-sayers I gotta say I still love this game. Yes the voice doesnt always 
 work online. Yes the words TEAM and WORK arent in everyones vocab. But those moments of bliss when 
 you pick off a distant flag-grabber from your sniping point a mile away, or the sudden panic as 
 your helo-gunship appears over a warehosue roof above a pack or fleeing enemy troops just make 
 it all worth it.
  
  The graphics have been MAJORLY improved and it really is a quite beautiful game. Of particular 
 note is the beefed up audio. Guns now deafen in firefights and the clinking of dropped shells (which 
 actually pile up!) really add a sense of immersion.
  
  My only complaint is EA's terrible server system and the fact that people barely speak or choose 
 a lesser known map.
  
  Ho hum cant have everything. You like shooting and have a fondness for war movies... GET THIS GAME!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPyhg
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say that I only play offline games and am a big fan of the BF series thus far and 
 when I heard they were making a console (more specifically a 360) BF game with a mission-based 
 campaign for singplayers such as myself, I was in awe. I didnt rent nor did I really keep track 
 of the game as I heard alot of downgrading for the xbox &amp; ps2 versions so I wasnt really in 
 awe anymore but I picked the game up receintly after I realized I was shooting way too many terrorists 
 in Vegas and far too many monsters in GoW, so my attention came back to Modern Combat since Lost 
 Planet doesnt really seem like my type of game (yet) . I picked it up at blockbuster last night and 
 have gotten through about 1/2-3/4 of the game thus far and here are my reactions....
  
  The Good:
  -The creators have really pleased the BF-loving SP community by FINALLY!!! adding 
 a singplayer stats &amp; unlocks system that doesnt require a broadband connection, just a harddrive! 
 And it almost makes the game worth 30.00 alone.
  - The Hot-Swapping feature is really cool, though not realistic, the BF-console games seem to swing 
 to a different tune anyway.
  -Enemy AI can be ruthless at times and really gives you a run for your money compared to PC-version 
 bots (most of the time anyway) .
  -Explosion effects are a little better than the non-modified BF2 PC game.
  -They even have (I 
 believe) Cpt. Dale Dye, USMC Ret. &amp; military advisor doing briefing voices for the US side.
 
  -Some levels are can be pretty interesting to use unlocked items.
  
  The friendly AI seems to get slightly better at staying alive but not taking out enemies well during 
 the ending levels of the game.
  -The lighting effects are very well done, as are the shadows, you will often come from a dark area 
 directly into the sunlight and be blinded for a moment and light will shine on your metalic-bodied 
 weapons.
  
  The Bad:
  -First off, one thing that BF2 has way over this is that (even though most of the time they dont 
 listen) you can order squad and/or platoon AI to follow or 'go to' a place, here you can only order 
 them to get into a vehicle.
  -Movement &amp; freelooking in and out of vehicles, land-based or helo, operates wierdly as you 
 keep moving (look or movement) for a split second after you let go of the control, applies to every 
 control there is and dare I say... Too Fluid ?
  Another really bad thing is that for the consoles, BF has gone political!
  -Sometimes the levels 
 feel a bit crowded as they arent but the size of 16-32 player maps compared to the PC version.
 
  -You have to play the game for a few minutes before muscle memory kicks in and reminds you of 
 the totally differing controls from any other shooter out.
  -Friendly AI is pretty much just there to draw enemy fire until you take out the enemy.
  -Enemy 
 AI will sometimes leave something to be desired for SPers.
  - There is no kit changing, only hot-swapping to a friendly with the kit you desire and there is 
 no opposing-force selection for any map, only the faction that you played before is available.
 
  -Weapons feel a little dull is muzzle report (sound) and certain automaticly-done upgrades as you 
 advance your rank suck any realism left out of the game.
  -You have to play as both the Chinese and NATO forces, not one or the other throughout the campaign 
 (you will switch between them every 3-4 missions.
  -The game is pretty damn fun but can get seriously frustrating at times... just dont even think 
 about having a save feature, because their isnt throughout a mission.
  -No skirmish or alternative missions for any maps and NO CO-OP AT ALL!
  -Story seems a little 
 like the developers are mocking international military generals &amp; leaders... you know, the 
 guys that fight &amp; die for their countrys.
  -Some missions are little bland, repetative, too tight &amp; over way to quick.
  -The absolute 
 worst part is the fact friendly AI doesnt spawn enough and the enemy has infinite spawns and it's 
 not at a destination, just into thin air 24/7, so completing objectives where you must advance 
 is really alot harder and less fun than it should be.
  
  Overall the game isnt solid but niether is the PC version to be honest, it just matters if you 
 really love shooters and if you dont really have a prefference of tactical or shooting-gallery, 
 you just want to shoot! 60 Bucks.... no, 20 bucks and no offline stats/unlocks... no, but 30.00 
 at wal-mart in it's current state..... if you really want it! The only thing that really bugs me 
 is that sometimes the friendly AI is so bad that you will have to hide out in an area where the 
 enemy patrols around as you pick them off from a distance &amp; the fact that friendly AI seems 
 to almost never spawn and the enemy AI spawns a hell of a lot, sometimes into thin air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandro909
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Battlefield games since 1942, and I was skeptical when I heard it was coming 
 to consoles. I never bothered with the original PS2 and Xbox versions of Modern Combat, but I thought 
 I should give the 360 version a try. I'm helluva glad I did.
  
  First off, gameplay-wise, this is hands down the most intense game I've ever played. It gives a 
 very impressive first impression. Every single mission has a personality of it's own, giving you 
 a unique set of objectives. Mix that with the unbelievably intense gameplay, and you've got a winning 
 combination of awesomeness. BF2MC has only a handful of classes, such as Sniper, Assault, Special 
 Ops, Support, and Engineer, and each class is so vastly different from one another, you'll find 
 that you'll want to play as almost all of them equally.
  
  The Multiplayer portion of BF2MC is just as great as you'd expect from the series, with a bunch 
 of new additions, such as mortar strikes, laser designated air strikes, and command stations from 
 which you can call in artillery strikes. Single player gives you the option to hotswap between 
 any unit on your team at any time and control that unit, which gives you the feeling that you're 
 controlling an entire army, and not just one soldier.
  
  Graphically, BF2MC is truly amazing. From the shine of your weapon, to the light bending explosions, 
 to the sway of your weapon and the motion blur when turning and moving, it really contributes to 
 the intense nature of the game. However, it does somewhat visually suffer from being a port of 
 an Xbox/PS2 game.
  
  The Sound is also very well done. All of the weapons pack a very powerful punch, and the many vehicles 
 sound as devastating as they should. The radio chatter in the single player is also a worthy note. 
 They are well performed and add a lot to the intense atmosphere. My only complaint would be that 
 the voice acting during the briefings inbetween missions is a little weak.
  
  The fairly average lengthed single player campaign is always a blast to go back and play, not to 
 mention all of the achievements that can be obtained by playing though it again. And on a side 
 note, the last level is ****ing impossible. I don't care what anyone tells me, I'm never going 
 to beat it. The multiplayer over Xbox Live is the gem that you've come to expect from Battlefield's 
 many PC iterations, and it's many changes and additions help keep it entertaining and balanced.
 
  
  Overall, I can't say enough good things about BF2MC. The personality of every single mission really 
 makes the single player stand out as one of the most memorable and fun games I've ever played. 
 Add a stupendous multiplayer mode and you've got a real winner that will remain one of my favorite 
 games for a good long while to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frozen_Legend
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game for the Xbox, I thought I was going to experience one of the greatest Battlefield 
 games yet. I was wrong... For the most part.
  
  I'll start with the graphics. They're good, but not great. I found many bad looking little bugs 
 that caught my eye enough to ruin some potentially great moments in the game. The gamplay is fairly 
 simple. Kill the enemy, take the command posts. Nothing unexpected. The controls are also somewhat 
 difficult to learn.
  The sound is okay, but, much like the graphics, they are not as good as they could be. By the time 
 you've played an hour or two, they all sound the same.
  The best part of the game is the multiplayer portion. It's not as good as some of the other Battlefield 
 multiplayer games, but it's worthwhile.
  
  If you decide to buy this game, you will most likely be unimpressed, but you will with find some 
 moments that make this game worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homersimpsons
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Normally Multiplayer rules over the single player compartment. so.. thats what it does on this game. 
 the game would be nothing without multi. because single player. can get hard. if you fail a mission. 
 you have to start it again. normally on some games you get checkpoints. so it automatically saves, 
 and you load from there. but thats not the case in battlefield.
  To be honest im really only on the first mission. so i cant really tell you if theres a story behind 
 all of this. but. the single does look interesting, well.... its a war game, and alot of war games 
 are awesome. but as it says in the title. it can get boring. Especially when you fail your mssions 
 alot. But that shouldn't stop you from wanting to play it in single player. because you would want 
 to come back to it and try and complete the missions. NOW, on to multi. i was so suprised that 
 it had 24-player online. And loads of times. it doesnt lag. so nothing wont put you off multi. 
 There are plenty of maps to choose from. the sad thing is though. you only get 3 teams. The MEC, 
 EU, U. S. all of which have different weapons. well the same... but look different and you'll notice. 
 after time the U. s weapon pack, will come out best. but don't listen to me. its your choice. there 
 are 16maps in total, all of which are superb. you will find some buildings repeat in most matches. 
 i would recommend. Backstab, the nest, bridge too far (DEMO MAP) . If you dont think my review is 
 enough too make you want to get it, try checking out the demo for it..... I would recommend. Multi. 
 YES!!! Single. Maybe!!!. but please get it for the pure fun of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohashmeergo11
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The single player in this game is horrible. There is absolutley no reason to buy this game if you 
 don't wanna play live. There is no instant action option where you can pit two teams against each 
 other on a map like Battlefield 2. And, the options you have of the different classes in the game 
 are limited. In the campaign there's usually two or three classes per level, and in order to use 
 a class you have to use the hot route or whatever. Still, the graphics are gorgeous and there are 
 some pretty good SFX. Voice acting gets repetive often and the Chinese sound like absolute retards. 
 Now, if you wanna buy this for the online play, that's a whole other story. The online is simply 
 great. Huge battles and great tactical play are the only reason you wanna buy this. No Live, No 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  Battlfield has always been reknown for action packed immersive games, the single player has never 
 shined, however the mulitplayer has always been awesome. I am the sort of guy who thinks originals 
 can't be beaten, so i happen to prefer Battlefield 1942 for the pc, but thats just me. From the 
 start you can access multiplayer and single player, the single player is quite entertaining, with 
 some interesting missions and array of weapons and vehicles, but manages to full short. The objectives 
 can become quite repetitive, and it starts to become difficult towards the end, now i do not mind 
 a challenge and i did beat the game, but its only difficult because they are one-man-army sort 
 of missions, because your teamates just get shot instantly, and battlefield is supposed to be a 
 team game. However the mulitplayer is very good, a great selection of maps, up to 24 players games 
 and all of the weapons and vehicles from the single player. The only flaw with multiplayer is there 
 are only two game modes, capture the flag and conquest, of which conquest is better. Now the grpahics, 
 they have been greatly upgraded from last years PS2/XBOX versions, no matter what anyone says, 
 this is most visible on the desert levels. The sound is nothing special but it does its job well, 
 with no dodgey voice dubbings or stereotypes :) . The music is quite dramatic and sound affects 
 are good. The Physics are also pretty good, with realisitc weapon damage on walls and items. The 
 Good: Amazing intense multi-player, good variety of weapons and vehicles, great clan support, well 
 though out achievements, good graphics The Bad: Few graphical glitches, Single player could be 
 improved, only 2 mulitplayer modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Pros; Good multiplayer, fun to snipe, fun to sneak up behind those snipers. Always fun in finding 
 ways of killing people, and then hiding from their retaliation efforts. Big maps
  
  Cons; At first controls get in the way, but get over it it helps works on those motor skills! Single 
 player is not worth anything. involves actually trying to communicate with the rest of the world 
 (everyone knows the world is full of stupid people)
  
  Its ok but not great in all aspects like Campain. It gets old fast but a ok FPS for all ages. Try 
 it out, or don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jb_409
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I think the single player is okay. The only thing I hated about single player is the way you can 
 move from person to person so fast! Other than that the overall online play is great. I created 
 my own clan, and I play every day just to get my rank up. Also the multiplayer maps are awesome! 
 The map you should definetely play is Bridge Too Far. I personally think it is the best map. The 
 clan matches are good, and I think this is going to be a game everyone will play over and over. 
 When I say that I mean online and off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxandpc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  First Off, if you dont have XBL DONT Bother!!!!! the SP is boring with a hotswap feature that really 
 isnt at all entertaing.
  
  Gameplay-The hotswap feature is the best thing in SP, the MP is a full out war with players classes, 
 the aim is a litttle difficult but once you get good at it its fun as H%ll, Graphics- Modern Combat 
 takes a PS2/Xbox port and adds better lighting and the advantage off the Xbox 360 power, to make 
 more and more polygons and adds them to models and maps, I think I heard there are 80,000 more 
 than an xbox version.
  
  Sound- Wanna hear what a battle scenario sounds like? this game on 5.1 is incredibile
  
  Value-The 
 MP is very addicting with achievements, servers and good stat tracking. there are still a lot of 
 servers playing to this date and there are a lot of people to shoot and a lot of tanks to blow 
 up!
  
  Tilt- I enjoyed it, you should to if your a fan of 1st person shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejmoney
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  I only played a few levels in the single player campaign, but they were fun. Theres a very cool 
 feature where you can play any one of the members of your team by basically looking at them and 
 pressing a button. The animation that switches you to the other player is very cool. If it wasn't 
 an online game... it may deserve something closer to 7.5
  
  The online portion of this game, once you get past the first few hours of learning the classes 
 and a few maps is really fun. There are a lot of ways to play the game, but since your rank is 
 based on points and not just something like kills, it behooves you to do things like capture and 
 defend flags, destroy enemy vehicles, etc. If you master the helicopter, you can have a lot of 
 fun, too. One thing you need to look out for is, before you get good at the game, it can be frustrating 
 to play against players that are a lot better. I recommend playing ranked matches, where it puts 
 you with similarly skilled players, like most new games.
  
  Class-specific features:
  
  Assault: smoke grenade, frag grenade, grenade launcher, powerful med range machine gun
  Spec 
 Ops: C4, flash bang, silenced accurate med range machine gun, combat knife
  Sniper: Sniper rifle (duh) , pistol, laser target (targets vehicles, and calls in a remote rocket 
 strike from the mother-ship) , locator thingy (locates all enemies on the map for like 3 secs)
 
  Engineer: Shotgun, Rocket launcher, welding torch (to fix vehicles) , land mines
  Support: machine gun (no scope) , health injector (hes sort of like the medic, and yes, you can 
 inject yourself) , mortar strike (like the sniper, but targets a specific spot rather than a vehicle)
 
  
  I have or have played most of the shooters available for the 360, and these are the games I'll 
 be playing for the foreseeable future:
  
  Battlefield 2 (large, strategic, objective based game, variable game play, vehicles, etc)
  Rainbow 
 6 Vegas (realistic medium sized, variable pace and game play game)
  Gears of War (awesome looking, fast paced, very fun)
  Splinter Cell (slooow paced, objective 
 based, nice change from running and gunning)
  
  Call of Duty is fun, but there is so much overlap between BF2 and Rainbow 6, that Id rather play 
 them than CoD... but I still throw that in every once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_cook100
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Summary; So many few console games have good multiplayer. I can stop to name a few. Yea, this might 
 not be good as the PC version, but hey THIS IS ALL WE GOT. Regardless of the fact of how this game 
 looked or felt on PC, it is still a great game. You get to drive any type of vehicle, parachute 
 from the helicopter that is being shot down, and sneak up behind those annoying snipers with your 
 handy combat knife. You know what? Its fun. I like to play it, the ranking system keeps my interest 
 in the game, and its the type of game where you can load up for 15 minutes, and be able to tear 
 yourself away from to go to class. Its definitely a good switch up from the other shooters coming 
 out.
  
  Pros; Good multiplayer, fun to snipe, fun to sneak up behind those snipers. Always fun in finding 
 ways of killing people, and then hiding from their retaliation efforts. Big maps
  
  Cons; At first controls get in the way, but get over it it helps works on those motor skills! Single 
 player is not worth anything. involves actually trying to communicate with the rest of the world 
 (everyone knows the world is full of stupid people)
  
  Wishlist; a PC possibly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360player
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  First thing I have to say is, single player blows. It's either so easy you want to cut yourself, 
 or so frustrating that you want to cut the disc. Multiplayer, I can say that that is a little better. 
 But just like I said, it can be really fun if your good at it, or really frustrating if you are 
 just a little below skill level of the other players. I can also add add that there isn't really 
 anything special about this game. If you want to get it so you can play it with someone on Xbox 
 live, the game communications have been known for being really bad. But hey, that's EA for you. 
 I can't say you'll ever have any Great times on this game, but it may pass the time and if you 
 ever have a friend over, they usually ask about it every once and a while.
  
  In the end, this is a game that instead of buying, you should rent it. After thinking about it, 
 I feel that I waisted $59.99 on this game. Only get it when it's $9.99 in about 5 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Louisville18
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  If you're fan of the the classic run around and shoot everything that moves game, this is clearly 
 the game for you. Overall, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a game that will keep you entertained 
 for hours at a time. It is clearly one of the best of the Battlefield series. The gameplay is typical 
 for that of an FPS with nothing really new or surprising. The graphics are also quite good especially 
 for being the first Battlefield game for the next gen consoles. The campaign mode is very disappointing, 
 however, and really does not have much content to it. In addition, EA does not do a very good job 
 of changing things up for the 360 version compared to the XBOX and PS2 versions, as there is no 
 exclusive content for the 360 version aside from a few maps and vehicles. On the flip side, it 
 is the online play that really sets this game apart from other 360 games, with great maps and multiplayer 
 that supports up to 24 players. This aspect of the game makes it worthwhile and really takes advantage 
 of what XBOX Live has to offer. Overall, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is an enjoyable game that 
 is clearly one of the early good ones for the XBOX 360. Although the campaign mode isn't all that 
 it's cracked up to be, the online play is truly remarkable and makes this a good game to have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobnado777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for all 360 owners with Xbox Live. If you don't have the internet and can't 
 get Live don't bother buying it for its campaign because to me the campaign falls short of of modern 
 shooters. The oline multiplayer though is amazing. With several different maps and game modes the 
 game makes up for its lack of campaign luster with an amazing multiplayer. A must buy for this 
 holiday season. On the graphic side this game is amazing i gave it a perfect ten. The sound and 
 effects are great too. Definatley pick this one uup if you have some extra cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying yea this game has a few minor problems which consist of pop-in's and 
 disconnections from the EA Servers but other than those 2 technical issue's the game is great. 
 Sure Ghost Recon may be my favorite stealth or realistic shooter but until you play BF2 you won't 
 feel complete. The game has GRAW beat in the online graphics department from the great structured 
 levels, looking at the bullet holes put in the walls and ground, even player models look detailed 
 and sharp. Not to mention looking at the weapons is like eye candy. I highly suggest turning all 
 huds and screen off to play just with the weapon reticle. The game is like a cinematic beauty at 
 that stage. Every soldier class is good and useful from the support soldier to assult. The feeling 
 of being driven by a fellow teamate while you take control of the turret and watch his back until 
 you get to your destination point the jumpout to use your rocket launcher on your shoulder blow 
 up enemy tanks or vehicles is pure fun but nothing is more satisfy than blowing up an enemy Heli 
 with a rocket launcher watching it explode to the floor. The power you feel in your player lets 
 you know that no matter how high up or what weapon your packing everyone can be killed. Explosions 
 such as those from grenades even feel better and more intense than GRAW. It feels like a mini nuclear 
 explosion with the subtle wave over the explosion area. Sometimes your teamates can be a problem 
 as everyone will rather want to wait around and get a helicopter instead of winning the match or 
 hopping in a tank to quick get to the action so you can run and gun or take contol of a tank and 
 blow sh! t up. Though sometimes it can be great if you surround yourself with good communicating 
 players. Most players didn't talk my whole match but when I told them I need back-up at flag 3 
 all of a sudden I saw enemies collapsing and jeeps speeding in with teamates jumping out and my 
 crew Heli flying over me... they didn't talk but certainly responded and that feeling is great 
 and one you just don't get from other Live titles at the moment. Honestly I haven't played the 
 campaign (single player offline) mode much and nor would I want to. The real fun is on Live and 
 for a offline experience i'd rather play GRAW as the presentation of gameplay is a lot more orignal 
 and gorgeous. If you've never play BF2 before or have been considering about jumping into the Xbox 
 Live scene this is definitly the game to get as its ease of play allows anybody to jump in and 
 play. Switching weapons on the fly is the best in any game so far in my opinion as all you do is 
 hold RB and move the analog left, right, up, or down to switch to the appropiate weapon as opposed 
 to GRAW where you eventually will have to use the scroll to pick what you want and make yourself 
 very vulnerable. While I still intend to play my GRAW everyday so I can get some serious kills, 
 climb them ranks and talk trash for my evil satisfaction I will also put in plenty of hours to 
 BF2 for sheer fun, kick back and just looking to have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racerx737
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I definitely enjoy playing this more than Halo 2, and I used to be addicted to Halo 2. Since I 
 bought this game 3 or 4 months ago I haven't touched Halo 2. The multiplayer is incredible, way 
 more realistic-feeling than Halo 2. Having said that, the single player in this game stinks pretty 
 bad (of course so did Halo 2's) . The one drawback that I have found was that if you put it down 
 for a while to play other games it gets pretty hard to pick back up the control scheme. Overall 
 the game is really good, but if you don't have Xbox Live your play of the game will be severely 
 limited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JYGFluffy212
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a great multiplayer game. I play this all the time with my friends 
 and its just fun to play with alot of people. Campaign is not great but its good. But most of the 
 campaign is pretty easy but when you get up yo multiplayer thats where it gets tricky and hard, 
 cause you think to your self what kind of soldier should i be. so its alot of fun just running 
 around the map with your friends and teaming up to perform the most damage on the opponent. If 
 first person view war game is for you than this is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was not as good as i thought it wood be, the muti player was ok, some what, it gets old 
 fast. The single player was borning. Borning Story line and not to much fun in genral. If u r looking 
 for a good time on xbox live u might wanna check this game out, the muti player is pretty decent, 
 sometimes there can be alot of lag thought. Overall i tink this game is a rental, bad graphis and 
 bad storyline, the audio was somewhat ok but not as good as the pc version. I dont remamend this 
 game at all, unless the price was at the most 30$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emb3r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern combat was Great team shooter for the original Xbox. the graphics were horrible 
 on the Xbox. well now Bf2: mc is back and its received a huge graphical makeover. Gameplay- Battlefield 
 2: modern combat was a good solid team shooter. the original Xbox version was very popular. everything 
 about it was good except the graphics looked like crap. the gameplay in the Xbox 360 version is 
 mostly the same. in the single player you do objectives such as blowing up subs. or taking control 
 of an area. the multiplayer consisted of walking driving or flying up to a spawn point and take 
 it over for your team. so ya its the same as last year. not saying anything bad because its pretty 
 damn fun. especially with the huge maps and 24 players online. But if you didnt like the gameplay 
 of the original then dont expect it to be any better. but if you loved the original, you will 
 have no problem switching over.
  
  Graphics- AMAZING. about 100x better than the original. there are reflections. the graphics are 
 crisp. everyone doesnt have the same face. explosions are great. there are bullet holes. bullet 
 shells will pile up on the ground. physics are better. this time when you die, you dont fall through 
 the map. environments look awesome.
  
  Sound- this has also been upgraded. you can definitely tell that the pistol sound actually seems 
 real. not an air soft gun. many guns have been redone to sound more believable. surround sound 
 is very nice. its cool to hear bullet rounds going off right over your head.
  
  Value- the game is expensive compared to the original. the original is $20 new. the 360 version 
 is $60 new. but if your a die hard fan of the series, it wont matter.
  
  Final thoughts. the Xbox 360 version has a bit more than the upgraded audio and graphics. the experience 
 is definitely changed with the enhancement. everything seems more believable. Though the single 
 player isnt the best. Battlefields 2's multiplayer does more than make up for it. the game is 
 worth 60 bucks for the multiplayer alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom518
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I have only played the campaign for about 2 hours, and i can already say that i hate it. It is 
 very boring, but that was expected from me, BF is made for is spectacular online play.
  I really can't stop playing the online game right now. My friend recommended it to me about 2 weeks 
 ago, and i was instantly hooked. Being a player of the PC version of BF2, i was impressed by this 
 one a lot. The new maps are great, and they are all pretty diverse. The vehicles were also well 
 done, most of them i recognized from the PC version, although, there doesn't seem to be any jets, 
 only helicopters. i only have one complaint about the game, the hit detection. Sometimes if I'm 
 using the assault kit, and i use my M203 to fire a grenade at someone, it will land on or next 
 to them, and they wont be phased by it. Most times though, they die. Other than that, great game, 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a great game on the 360 but in some missions or areas, it gets 
 to hard. The missions are a challenge and it takes a while to get past those missions. In Battlefield 
 2: Modern Combat you can fight on foot, drive in vehicles and more. Also you can be anyone like 
 for example, I'm a soldier in a bunker and one of my teammates is getting to much fire, then you 
 press the B button and you automatically be that soldier. Now that is a way to get around the place. 
 Multiplayer would be really cool because you can have a whole team of friends verus another team, 
 and it would be a all out war. Which is really cool and fun. If your a fan or a newcomer to the 
 series, I recommend you getting this game because it is so cool and really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpc2006
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is one of the funnest and most addictive multiplayer games available 
 on the Xbox 360. The first thing anyone would notice about the game is that the multiplayer is 
 very action packed, fun, and addictive. There are many different types of weapons and soldier classes 
 available for you to play with. They range for your typical assault rifles and shotguns to sniper 
 rifles and rocket launchers. There are also many other types of weapons such as C4, grenades, and 
 knives available for the player to build up kills with. The multiplayer also has a large amount 
 of levels to play in which range from deserts to jungles to the typical ruined city. Another thing 
 that you will notice about Battlefield 2 MC is that the single player campaign is not that good...... well 
 it just straight up SUCKs...... and I find that most of the levels are very hard. Basically, if 
 you own a 360 and have xbox live and love FPS's, I highly recommend this game only for the multiplayer 
 part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  now ive been playing BF2 for the PC since a few months after it came out, and all i could say was 
 how broken it gets more and more, with every patch. I surpass the games recommended requirements 
 and still i get weird lag, and low FPS.
  
  now on to BF2 MC for the 360. I played this thinking crap im going to have to wait weeks for this 
 game to load because the PC versions load times are horrible!, I go to play MC and it only takes 
 about 15 seconds, I get ingame to see the graphics are better (but unfortunatly the shadows are 
 still pretty stupid looking) but I had more fun playing MC in 15 mintues then ive ever had pl; aying 
 BF2 on the PC, I dunno why people are rating this so low the motion blur, and almost no lag at 
 all just overall makes the game a great experience, I useally hate EA and FPS games on consoles, 
 but i gotta give it to em this time, it is really fun. and deff better then the PC version, even 
 from a guy like me whos been playing BF2 on the PC for so long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwastie
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  Having been a big fan of the the PC version, i could not wait to get my hands on the super 360 
 version, but i must say i feel bit of a let down as i play this game.
  Graphics are great, and the maps are very strong but the controls let it down, i wish they could 
 bring a mouse out on the 360 to play these games on, the feel is much better!
  
  The single player part is not even worth talking about.
  
  bottom line is, if you have a pc 
 that can run this game buy it on the pc!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Looking for a shooter w/ a great storyline and/or campaign mode? Then battlefield is NOT for you. 
 However, if you are interested in addictive online warfare that seems to never grow old and keeps 
 you on the edge of your seat all night long, then this game is what you've been looking for. It's 
 more of an arcade shooter, so don't go looking for something similar to it's PC brother, but on 
 it's own, it's an amazing online game that sets up frantic battles with tons of great weapons, 
 vehicles, and maps. You'll get hundreds of hours out of the online play if you have xbox live.
 
  
  The graffics are good but nothing amazing like Ghost Recon or Oblivion. Guns and characters look 
 great, but other objects like some landscapes and buildings look very plain and washed out. It's 
 no eye soar, but it's not a visual powerhouse either. The sound effects are ok, but nothing to 
 write home about. You hear all the little things like your gear shaking when you run and your bullet 
 shells hitting the ground when you empty a magazine, but some of the weapons sound a little flat. 
 The explosions sound great though.
  
  So if you have live and like online warfare, this game is a must own. If you are looking for a 
 single player offline game, this game probably won't be worth your money.
  
  That being said, this game alone is worth the price of getting xbox live. The online play is just 
 that freaking fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael5076
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea why gamespot gave battlefield such a low ratting. this game is easily the most action 
 packed game out right now... until gears of war atleast. yea graw is great.. but everybody wants 
 a fast past game every now and then. The online play is amazing you just jump into a game instead 
 of the usual go to a lobby and wait for people to finish no no no you log on and it throws you 
 directly into a game. the only downfall to battlefield is its campaign it lacks in several places 
 but its also great ion others. the first time i played it i hated it then my internet went down 
 so i had to play the campaign and it grew on me.. the best feature of the campsign is is the quick 
 switch. if you die you are automatically switched to a diffrent player on your squad. overall i 
 deff recommend this game to anyone who loves to blow peoples brains out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on the release date and I found it great fun to play. I had recently bought 
 the Xbox version of the game before I got my Xbox 360 and I managed to get to the third from last 
 mission. But when I bought this game I found it extremely hard to get past the fifth mission, this 
 is because they have greatly improved the AI in the 360 version. On the Xbox version I never played 
 the online play, but I have found that the Xbox 360's online play for this game is very addictive 
 and enjoyable.
  
  I would defiantly recommend this game for anyone who likes to be tactical (Offline play.) and become 
 addicted (Online play.) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing one game for a very long time. I've been playing it whenever I've had the chance. 
 It has been consuming the time that I said aside everyday for gaming. The sad thing is, this game 
 was a mere demo. And this was the demo for Battlefield 2: Modern Combat.
  
  Now, I don't want to bore you all with me blabbering on about some average single player in a game. 
 The reasoning is, well, that's exactly what it is; Average.
  
  Now, once you plug in your ethernet cable and fire up Live, the gaming really begins. You are right 
 away prompted with some options on how you want the game to go (You have a selection of two game 
 modes, over a dozen maps and other things) and then you're ready to go.
  
  But what makes the online so amazing, is how much effort has really been put into it. I've never 
 seen such large levels with this degree of detail. There is really a ton to do and it makes this 
 so amazing.
  
  So here are some details about the thing. You will find an average of around 20 or so people everytime 
 you start an online game, which is a real treat. One of the highlights is really the vehicles. 
 They have land, sea, air and land/sea vehicles. They don't control amazingly well, but they are 
 still functional. They are just a ton of fun.
  
  Graphically, I'm not overly impressed for a 360 game. The textures, lighting and smoke effects 
 are fine, but the animations are stiff and there are many graphical glitches. It is borderline 
 beautiful current-gen and sub-par next-gen, but I can't make up my mind.
  
  The audio presentation is also average. The music, the voice acting, everything just seems very 
 average here.
  
  But in the end, everything comes down to gameplay, and that's where this game shines. The roles 
 are a bit unbalanced (Snipers galore) but the game remains fun. The acheivements make you work 
 towards something, and you can level up as you get better.
  
  At this point, this game is still only a rental of mine. But once my rental days are up, I see 
 this as being played the most of any game in my 360 collection!
  
  Positive:
  + The best Live game for the 360
  + Fun vehicles
  + Leveling up keeps you playing
  
  Negative:
 
  - Audiovisual presentation is sub-par for next-gen
  - The roles are a bit unbalanced 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarytiger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games on 360 to date!
  battlefield 2 puts you in the world of modern combat and different situations wether you have to 
 blow up builings to take control of blazing helicopters in the sky.
  
  battlefield 2 modern combat also is a great multi-player game and is very addicting and will keep 
 you playing for ages, from so many maps to choose from icy russian bases, to hot dangerous deserts 
 it also has great vehicles to choose from like like tanks that you can hear roll from miles and 
 helicopters that cos HELL, also there 5 different classes of soilder that you can pick from. be 
 a assualt soilder and take down enemy soilders with a powerful assualt rifle and grenade launcher, 
 be a sniper and hitch a ride to the top a buliding or in the mist and pick down enemy scum one 
 by one, or be spec-ops and plant c-4 for tanks and other enemys to look forward to, be an engineer 
 and help your teams vehicles by healing them up with your repair welding tool or take them down 
 with a mighty powerful rocket launcher and last but not least be a surrport soilder and rain down 
 bullets on your enemys with the m249is heavy machine gun or call in a mortar strike and send those 
 pesky soilders that have been disturbing your team straight 2 hell.
  
  whatever you want to get this game for, it is worth it you proberly won't find a better multiplayer 
 game out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReyMysterio619A
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  I reckon this game has the best multiplayer mode i have ever played and trust me i have played 
 many. The maps graphics are really interesting while the soldier kits are interesting. The maps 
 are well balanced and i like the part where you can fight for a nation like China, Arab, America, 
 England etc.
  This game has a very wide map selection but the only bad thing about this game is that people mostly 
 only play on Backstab, Bridge Too Far and Deadlypass which is pretty annoying but it doesnt bother 
 me since those maps are great for snipering :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyh15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  modern combat for the 360 is a little disappointing. The single play is very frustrating because 
 the other soldiers are very stupid, they can't hold their own in battle, you mostly have to babysit 
 them. There's a hot swap thing in the game where you can switch and take control of any soldier 
 and this works well. If all the soldiers die including the one you take control of, you have to 
 start the mission all over again, and this is another frustrating aspect of the game. The graphics 
 are really good on the 360. You can actually see the stitches on the gloves. The explosions around 
 the vehicles are good, they blow apart great. however I wish the environments were more destructible, 
 Windows don't break when you shoot them or buildings or trees when you shoot them with a tank. 
 When you use the machine guns, you actually see the shell casings fall on your feet. The weapons 
 are also good. There are tanks, boats, and helicopters, and they control very well, except the 
 helicopter, the controls are a little frustrating. One of the good aspects is the online play, 
 you can play up to 24 players. I didn't experience any lag or connection problems. There are only 
 2 game modes on line, you can choose any class of soldiers to play on line. Overall it is a rent, 
 and then if it's not too frustrating for you, it's a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjj2003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Single player mode is a little messy and a bit difficult for novices. Online play is a blast, though!
 
  Battlefield 2 excels in a lot of areas and also fails quite miserably in lots of others. First 
 off, the graphics are truly awesome and detailed. The sounds are also very good as well. Control-wise, 
 the game takes some time to get used to. After a couple of hours it becomes quite intuitive, though. 
 The game also deserves two different ratings. The single player mode is very sloppy and quite hard 
 to beat. Levels are long and tedious at times and sometimes it's frustrating how bad the A. I. is 
 for your teammates on the field. However, the online mode is pure gold. Blowing tanks up with C4, 
 aiming your bazooka and taking out a jeep full of enemies or tearing up a platoon of soldiers with 
 a helicopter is truly gratifying. If you don't play online this game is only worth a rental. But 
 if you live and dire for onling gaming, especially warfare games, you will enjoy BF2 MC without 
 a single doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 excels in a lot of areas and also fails quite miserably in lots of others. First 
 off, the graphics are truly awesome and detailed. The sounds are also very good as well. Control-wise, 
 the game takes some time to get used to. After a couple of hours it becomes quite intuitive, though. 
 The game also deserves two different ratings. The single player mode is very sloppy and quite hard 
 to beat. Levels are long and tedious at times and sometimes it's frustrating how bad the A. I. is 
 for your teammates on the field. However, the online mode is pure gold. Blowing tanks up with C4, 
 aiming your bazooka and taking out a jeep full of enemies or tearing up a platoon of soldiers with 
 a helicopter is truly gratifying. If you don't play online this game is only worth a rental. But 
 if you live and dire for onling gaming, especially warfare games, you will enjoy BF2 MC without 
 a single doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelyk8
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  I would like to preference this by saying I only rented both these games and only played multi 
 player. G. R. A. W.
  
  Strength: Commrodery- I made a lot of friends.
  
  Weakness: Extra Maps- A lot of severs were using the maps you have to purchase so it severely limited 
 were I could play including friend requests. (If you buy this game purchase the extra maps!)
  
  Strength: Team Work- I say it's a strength only in comparison to BF2: MC. Some games a few people 
 talk and coordinate. If you find these people add them to your friends list.
  
  Weakness: Spawn Camping- Or camping in general. I personally don't find it fun. But the best players 
 seem to do it. (I'm talking to you FedWitness)
  
  Weakness: Repetitive Map Play- It always comes back to playing the NOWHERE map. (And surprise surprise 
 the host is always at the top of the hill) Weakness: Shaky Servers- EA has better servers
  
  notes: Don't play on Saturday nights (full of smacktards) ... Until you learn each map and the 
 formula to winning it, expect to die allot!
  
  BF2: MC
  
  Strength: Variety- This is the best thing about this game. The different load outs and vehicles 
 make even playing the same map over and over fun.
  
  Weakness: No commrodery/Team Work- The only people talking are either talking smack and/or whining.
 
  
  Strength: Open Ended Game Play- Unlike G. R. A. W. there seems to be only a loose formula to winning 
 each map.
  
  Weakness: Repetitive Map Play- I don't know if there is a random map option for hosts. It would 
 be nice.
  
  Note: I plan on buying this game when it comes down in price.
  
  I hope this was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackiechan124
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Fun for the first Three or four missions, but after that it gets very repetative. 
 While playing through the game I found a couple bugs and things that should be fixed, but nothing 
 major that couldnt be fixed with the update. The last mission will very well annoy any military 
 personel on they way it is brought about! When playing through the game the A. I units do not help 
 you none what so ever! They are there just pretty much to get killed by the opposing team. Overall 
 I think the vehicles are the best part about the game, they work very well and flow into the game 
 very smoothly. This game should have been held off a couple months for EA to put some more work 
 into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giglebits
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  the 360 version is way better then the ps2 version and alittle bit better then the xbox the sound 
 is awsome the gamplay is grreat and multiplayer is chronic multiplayer is the best 24 players in 
 onme server and alot fo toys to play with this game is a buy for the online plaly ctf- mode is 
 the best u spawn at 1 sec and can be the defender or the attacker u get points for killinf enemys 
 at the flag or at there flag soo there a hint for some points i get 50 in a ctf because i rock 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelWhy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  I've never played any of the other Battlefield games, so I can't comment on that aspect. But , 
 I can say that it's by far the best game I've played online. It's fast-paced and has enough variety 
 to keep you engaged for a long time.
  
  As a side note, the single-player game is, at best, mediocre. They tried to make it interesting 
 with a 'hot-swap' function that lets you switch to other friendly soldiers, but it's not particularly 
 fun. GRAW's single-player is far superior. But, GRAW can't compare when it comes to online play.
 
  
  I just wish they were releasing BF:2142 for the 360. Instead, we're getting some game where they're 
 focusing on the single-player aspect. Lame... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolCombatKid
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I like the realy cool looking like tanks and water grafics and the effects of when you shoot the 
 water and the floor you see your golden or silver bulets from your gun when you shoot and I think 
 they 've improved battledfield 2 alot compeared to the old one on normal XBOX (not realy improved 
 i'de say, but i like the grafics and how the've improved and i think the could do more updates 
 like maybe new maps and wepons. Even though i see no point any more because there maybe a new Battlefield 
 coming soon to the playstation 3 or both) .
  
  I RECOMEND THIS GAME for people that like war games or online multiplayer (24 players)
  
  http://www. game. co. uk/ViewProduct. aspx? cat=11299&amp; mid=326894
 
  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat (Xbox 360) at GAME
  
  
  FEATURES: * Next-generation graphics deliver eye-bursting visuals, hurling you into the heart of 
 the best-looking Battlefield ever. * 16 maps including the 3 Xbox Live maps previously only available 
 via download. * Four new vehicles not previously available in the original Xbox version, including 
 snowmobiles and vans loaded with mini-guns. * Enhanced HotSwapping takes the revolutionary HotSwap 
 feature even further. * Ultra-deep online* features, including in-game Clan support, VoIP and a 
 deep stat tracking system that allows you to replay battles to perfect your Battlefield strategy. 
 * All-new re-designed soldier classes lets you spot each kit at a glance. * Take control of more 
 than 30 land, sea, and air vehicles, including tanks, helicopters, amphibious craft and fast attack 
 vehicles. * Own the battlefield with more than 50 state-of-the-art weapons. * Battle as US, EU, 
 Chinese, or Middle East Coalition troops, each with their own unique arsenals. * Multiple solider 
 classes including Assault, Sniper, Special Ops, Combat Engineer and Combat Support units. * Power 
 up your soldier by executing multiple kills quickly. Increase health, take more hits, do more damage 
 and become an unstoppable force on the battlefield. * Upgrade your unit with new equipment, including 
 thermal vision for the sniper rifle and extra destructive mortar strikes. * Get promoted through 
 the ranks, from a Private to 5 Star General, as you lead your army to victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniaclepc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Could be a little less difficult, but then the game would have been over by now. Some missions 
 are absolutely the best. Some of the missions are semi-autonomous. As always, you can take your 
 time, just so long as you complete the mission standards, which so far haven't really demanded 
 too much of a time frame. My only criticism is that it would be a nice if you really could keep 
 control over different men and machines. Storing them for later, as opposed to them jumping into 
 the game with their own ai, which usually gets them destroyed or killed. Other than that, this 
 is a very well thought-out game. Can't wait for 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't battle field. It's more like just Modern Combat. The campaign mode sucks like rotten 
 eggs. It just doesn't look like combat. The graphics are okay, but there are a lot of bugs. When 
 you die in multiplayer, you can see your eyes pop out, your arm really long, or your head not located 
 where it is supposed to be. Xbox live on battlefield 2 modern combat is fun at first, but isnot 
 as good as the pc games. It bores you really quickly. I do not really like this game really anymore, 
 it is just plain boring now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavog117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is all out war and the campaign and gameplay is great and learning the controlls is simple. 
 The X-Box Live is alittle different but better. When you play online there is killin', snipin' 
 and all out war. This game is great for the X-Box 360 and that's why I give a perfect score. And 
 since it's on the 360 the graphics are awesome. The weapons and countries are totally awesome and 
 all countries have their weapons and vehicles. This game is really awesome. You have to take my 
 word for it. This review is short and im just writing down words to get this review to 100 words 
 and lets hope this works. See ya later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikkukeyblade
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game had some good an bad in it some of it got old and made me wanna cry the action was fun 
 but it was a good game to play on a rainy day if you fill down but try this game if you love battlefeild 
 game they are very good games and you will not fill dissipointed. This game was a little pricey 
 but i was working around the details and thats fine. Go get this game cause it is very fun but 
 it has it moments. Have a blast playing it and you should soon hear back from me so thanks for 
 listening and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdavisdavis20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is really really realy reallt really good. i think it could not get any better, well 
 maybe a few things, the playstation is a little more furn. the explosions seem to be smaller on 
 the 360 version, I don't know maybe its just me. On ecool new thing that i like is how all the 
 people look a lot cooler, espically the sniper, way cool. all of the levels look very good and 
 i think there is one or two new maps or maybe i juat missed them in the PS2 version. There are 
 a few glitches throughout the game, but what game doesn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adragon_hart
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of great multiplayer games and don't mind taking a sniper round o the head sometimes 
 buy this game. Gameplay wise the controls are intuitive, the sound is awesome, especially with 
 surround, and the graphics are top-notch. I'm not a really big fan of big modern shooter games, 
 but I have to admit I sill log on and rack up the kills from time to time. The conquest mode is 
 great if you like have flexible objectives and a fluid battle, while the capture-the-flag is great 
 to just get a fix in a pinch. The class based weaponry is fairly even across the sides and no class 
 rises above the others, that is of course not counting the sniper harassing you from across the 
 field. While the vehicles seem like they would overpower the game they are suprisingly useful and 
 disposable at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a fun game to play because its non stop action and it never gets boring. The only 
 negative thing of this game is probally the offline. It isnt really the best thing to play because 
 offline can be frusturating and boring at some times. But when you play online its constant fun 
 and you seem to be constantly always doing something. I would say that something bad about online 
 is it seems to be laggy at times and it seems to disconnect you from some games but it rarely happens. 
 Its got great graphics, great gameplay, great everything i would say. Its probally not one of the 
 top 3 games out there for xbox 360 but i would say it would be in the top 10. So if ur into first 
 person shooter war games this is one you should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaddyDeath
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Single player missions are lame and not really even worth playing. The hot swap idea is cool but 
 after about twenty minutes you just want to play online again. Online can be a rewarding awesome 
 experence if you happen to be playing with people who know anything about teamwork. To many people 
 play the game as if they are lone soliders. And in a battle no one man is an army. To many times 
 some freash fish runs for the chopper and leaves with only himself in it (when it seats four) just 
 to jump out over a building and crash the chopper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0741robi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game this is the first battlefield game i have been on and i love it the single 
 player takes a long tome to complete and i am hocked online it is so fun. Also a great add on to 
 the game is the games website it has lots of stats and leaderboards but all in all this is a top 
 notch next gen game. The graphics on this game are awesome it gives you a real sense of the wars 
 going on and i think there are definetly and go few online maps which will keep you entertained. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Command tanks, choppers and any other of more than 30 military vehicles, and make use of more than 
 70 kinds of weapons (including heat-seaking missles, laser designated bombs and other modern military 
 hardware.) The great aspect of this game stated above are the same great aspects stated on the 
 PS2 and Xbox versions. Not really nothing changed from those versions to that of the Xbox 360 version, 
 except because of the power and capabilites of the 360 it almost creates a different game. With 
 better graphics and smoothness, Battlefield 2 Modern Combat packs the power and looks of the Xbox 
 360 and doesn't mind showing it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal_25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 modern combat for the xbox 360 is a first person shooter that you play as the americans. 
 The game has got quite stunning graphics and gameplay and also the sound is pretty good.
  
  what makes battlefield 2 modern combat a good game is the hotswapping feature which makes the game 
 a whole lot easier. The thing that makes bf2 mc a pretty good first person shooter is in xbox live 
 because xbox live in the game is just amazing!
  
  Another thing that would make battlefield 2 modern combat an even better game on my opinion would 
 if you could actully see the players face in the game and without that it makes the game a bit 
 blank.
  
  I can reccommend bf2 modern combat to anyone who likes first person shooters simply because the 
 graphics, sound, tilt, and also the hotswapping feature which make the game pretty unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The graphics are awesome looking. It has a good motion blur to it and really is one of the best 
 looking 360 titles out. It has cool effects with the smoke and weather effects.
  There are a ton of weapons and vehicles to choose from. Each class has a unique weapon, which 
 you can update overtime with a better gun (or just keep the original) .
  The single player missions are pretty sweet. It's got a bit of story behind it and is not the 
 same as the PC single player (which is basically multi player with bots) . There's even challenges 
 that hold close to an arcade game but stick to the BF2 roots.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  A few points in the game, you'll run into some minor lag. Mainly from explosions. It's pretty 
 minor and doesn't jump as much as just drop frames for a second.
  The jumping system feels a little weak. For instance, in the third single player mission, you 
 can jump from rooftop to rooftop. Well, in theory, you can. Most of the time, you end up not jumping 
 at all and just walking off of a building.
  All though not a terrible thing, the game doesn't play like the PC version.
  
  :Overall:
 
  This is one of the best playing and looking 360 titles out right now. I don't really agree with 
 GameSpot's review with their cons of the game. It's arcade style shooting, yes, but it doesn't 
 mean it's not fun. Games are about fun, right? Right?? (No, they're about flashy graphics and the 
 story you heard in the previous game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuft
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  This game is unbelievabble, not only is it one of the best looking games its also one of the most 
 fun to play on Xbox live.
  
  the graphics are very realistic from the gun models to the gaming world every thing is expertly 
 modelled, the effects are of the highest caliber .the flash of the rifles looks great and when a 
 flashbang goes off the light bloom effect is fantastic.
  
  sound is what you would expect (gunshots and engine noise) . the soudtrack is like a techo orchastra 
 with suitable war themes .
  
  the best part of this game however is the xbox live mode, i can see no faults with this game except 
 the amount of kids who like to pwn noobs? what the heck does that mean .....
  this game is worth buying even if you dont have xbox live as the single player mode is quite compelling, 
 it feels a little like a quenton tarrintino movie as the story is told from all sides 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CryingHero
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Posiabally the best FPS for the 360. People thought Perfect Dark Zero was going to be hard to beat 
 but in actual fact it has. What PDZ lacks Battlefield has and improves on. As like other Battlefield 
 titles you play a Army soilder in a certain era, and as the title suggests a Modern solider. 
 
  
  Singleplayer:
  You begin the Campaign as a allied solider fighting in a snow covered area. The objective is to 
 wipe out resistance. You command a squad of various type of infantry, including: Sniper, Heavy, 
 Assualt and Support. The game starts off pretty slowly but then you get in the thick of the action. 
 Throughout the course of the game you alternate bettween friendly fources and the Chinese and Terrorists. 
 A new feature added to this game was the ability that alows you to switch bettween teammates, it 
 goes into a sort of tunnel vision and flys to that teammate that you selected. Quite a handy tool 
 for those aqward moments. Overall singleplayer is great fun and last quite a while. Altohough parts 
 are challenging it's a well deserved play.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Xbox Live once again proves to be a great source of matchmaking and online play. EA servers are 
 down for maintanence alot but that dosn't take away from the game it's self. Domination is the 
 only gametype but does not tire due to new maps and a different challange each time. Nothing much 
 else to say about it, but the game is worth the MP alone.
  
  Both SP and MP have an array of tanks, jeeps, helecopters and boats to fly, drive and smash your 
 way through the game. In all BattleField: Modren Combat is a execllent game and worth the money 
 spent to buy it. I hope this review helps you to decide for or against you views of the game but 
 rember one thing everyone has a different taste and opinion.
  Thanks, CryingHero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  I played the first one on computer and was playing this game 24/7!!! then the second came out and 
 turn out pretty good. the graphic and not that good. the gameplay is the best in this game. the 
 sound is good and many differnt one too. the values are not that good either. this game have a 
 great campaigne and pretty hard sometimes but you will get through everntually. i recomend to try 
 the demo first, but the real game itself is way better. if you like war game u deffinently like 
 this one!!! on my opinion i lik the first one better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunrire
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  As soon as a gamer hears the word "Battlefield" he or she's automatic reaction is to call out army 
 phrases like "cover me" or "supressive fire" at your local Taco Bel. What l mean by that is that 
 "Battlefieldiens" are very good actors in saying someone with a M4 is going down the east alley
 
  
  Enough rambling. Battlefield is a game that pits you againest a other country (team) in a "capture 
 the base" or "capture the flag". It's a class based game where you choose 5 classes. Then you pit 
 it out.
  
  Gameplay: Battlefield 2: MC plays like any other first person shooter with the add motors like 
 hummers and boat, active envioments and a wide battlefield. Plays every well offline but you need 
 to have online to get the most out of it. But the Hotswapping feature in the offline gives it some 
 life and it feels like a rocket and is executed wonderful
  
  Graphics: If you played he first BF: MC on PS2 or Xbox you can notice it a improves alot. But for 
 a standalone Xbox 360 game it has litte to offer. The blur effect in long distance and when turing 
 m akes it look like a real battle the graphics are just above normal 
  Sound: The guns nad motors in the game sound sharp and crisp and if you have surround sound it 
 adds to the experience. Music is offen re-use and since online pits you with the same 4 maps each 
 time the music gets repetitive.
  
  Value: Well you can only get value from it if you have a multiplayer set up since there isn't ny 
 split screen. 
  
  Overall: Only consider if you have online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freakboy15
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield really was entertaining from about the first 3 days but after that i started to see 
 some bad quality that other shooter don't suffer from. The enemy's A. I move over killing you then 
 your team, giving u this felling like they can shoot u just about anywhere, and you team A. I. is 
 offend stupid, not doing anything, driving in circles and just useless behavior. The gameplay is 
 all-right, just the fact that online it take about the full clip to kill your opponent. The graphics 
 are reallly good, but this game just suffers from gameplay issues that should not be for a 360 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soc1al
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9
  
  The Gameplay in Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is great. It has easy controls, smooth scrolling and 
 fast paced action. Live play has nonstop action so you will never get bored playing online with 
 your friends or strangers. Anyone can pick up the controller and immediately get into this intense 
 game. 
  
  Graphics - 7
  
  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat's graphics are the games most dissapointing aspects of the game. Although 
 the shading on the guns are amazing that is the only good thing about the graphics. The rest are 
 so so. Even on an HDTV the graphics can't be all that.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  There isnt much to say about the sound in BF2MC. Although the sound is not important at all compared 
 to the graphics and the gameplay in this game the sound does make you feel like you are on a battlefield 
 in China. I love the sound of bullets from far away. Every different gun has it's own different 
 sound.
  
  Value - 9
  
  The VALUE in this game is great I can play for hours and not get bored because i am always playing 
 with different people at differerent skill levels. 
  I actually thought this game would be a 3 timer and a rental but i played it at my friends and 
 had a blast playing it so i went out and bought it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam416
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  this game kicks so much ass on multiplayer just grab the controller and take a seat because i guarantee 
 you will be having the time of your life this game is worth every cent the only bad part about 
 is the campainge it sucks in battlefield i think that they could have done a lot better with it 
 if the didn't make it to short the bottomline is if you get this game it is primarly for multiplayer 
 don't listen to people who think this game is bad because it isn't cause they probadly never tried 
 multiplayer if the multiplayer in this battlefield is awsome wait until the next one comes out!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_blanchard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This was the second game I got for my xbox 360 and It is ok, the single player is laking but the 
 multiplayer is great. The last level of the game is very, very hard, but all the other levels can 
 be quickly beat in a few trys at the most. Not much else to say, don't buy at $60, not worth it. 
 Wait until the price comes down comes down to at least $40. Also, don't buy unless you have Xbox 
 Live. The fact that it was released months after the xbox version (backwards compatible) doesn't 
 make it worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knights435
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  this game is only good if u have multiplayer and only good. the games multiplayer is the best, 
 the graphics are fine they could use better explosions but they work. i think the sound is awesome 
 maybe not the best but definitely up there with call of duty. gunshots ring out across the maps 
 and explosions echo you can hear the distant sniper fire from the hills and the machine gun fire 
 in the alleys its awesome. the multiplayer never gets boring but the singleplayer sux bunghole 
 its horrible stay away if u dont have xbox live. in singleplayer your teammates are ok and the 
 enemies are ok the worst though is how even when use a silencer you are seen or heard. for example 
 on one mission i was hidden behind a rock and when i locked on to a helicopter all the enemies 
 unrealistically new where is and worst of all shot right through the gigantic rock, the enemies 
 get away with being able to shoot through almost anything sometimes at random too. the controls 
 are hard but once u get used to them they're fine . so if u have xbox live the game is a must for 
 xbox live users but if u dont have xbox live stay away until u get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gww101
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This games has fun fast paced game that will give you a huge array of weapons and vehicles to ensure 
 you will never run out of things to throw at the other team.
  
  This game lets you destroy people with a tank or own the battlefield in a helicopter.
  
  This 
 great team based online action will give you over 100 hours of online play which makes this a must 
 have if you have xbox live, but without live its sort of well boring. The AI is just a power packed 
 3 shot killing machine that has auto aim which makes them easy to pick of from behind because of 
 how stupid they are and they tend to camp alot.
  
  Final Verdict... If You Have Live Pick It Up Right Now
  ... If You Dont Dont Bother
  
  
  
 
  I Have Live That Is Why I Play So Much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  If you are a ONLINE player and love to play online games then this one is for you, but if you like 
 the single player then you migth be in trouble because some missions are stupid and to easy and 
 too hard to play but it is fun with the online play. But the save system is good and the AI is 
 a little off but most of all is the ONLINE play its fast and real like COD2 (call of duty 2) but 
 its a great game and also they got to make new maps for download on the market place on the xbox360. 
 but i give it a     
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfa1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  In the campaign you will definitely notice this directly on the first mission. Sometimes it may 
 feels like everything is happen too fast and you dont feel that you have control over the situation. 
 Well, this is both positive and negative. The positive thing is that you will most certainly feel 
 like youre in the middle of a war. The bad thing is that youre soldier may be the only one left 
 just after some seconds before you even started to try and save some soldiers. The missions are 
 quite fun and some of them are pretty hard. Sometimes it can become frustrating when they seem 
 to be impossible. Its really good that there also are some statistics after each mission so you 
 can get a number of stars depending on how well you completed it. There are also some medals you 
 will have to earn if you want to get the gamerscores. 
  But the AI can be really frustrated. They have a tendency to stand in front of you when you are 
 going to blow up a tank and etcetera. They also lacks the ability to be really helpful, mostly 
 they will die without doing anything good before. Sometimes they even kill you if you find yourself 
 in close combat with an enemy.
  
  There are side challenges you may play after youve unlocked them. Youll have to kill some enemies 
 with different weapons, race with some vehicles and etcetera. These are quite fun and most of them 
 are pretty easy to, even though some of them are really tough. 
  
  Actually I havent played it online yet so I have no comments on that.
  
  The weapons feeling 
 are alright and you really feel how hard it is to shoot. But I dont know if it is my control or 
 some settings but what have happened to the vibrations in the control when you fire? 
  The vehicles aren't that fun to drive; they seem to lack the right feeling and can be hard to control, 
 especially the helicopters which you have to train to fly really, really much if you want to be 
 able to fly it somewhat acceptable. Its almost pathetic who hard it is to fly them.
  
  Sound and graphics are there nothing wrong on. The game is nicely done and quite realistic. The 
 weapons sound really realistic and are graphically done really good. The levels arent photographically 
 realistic but still they look quite real. 
  
  The control could have been better, especially the helicopters control, but it doesnt take that 
 long time before youve learned it. Probably.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer1289
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the worst singleplayer. well its not horrable its just so hard! Your men 
 are stupid but the other guys are very good. But who gives a damn about the singleplayer, any battlefield 
 buff will tell you, Battlefields should not even have singleplayer. The multiplayer is amazing. 
 16 deffernt maps, and more weapons and vehicles then i can count. But then again i can only cound 
 to 5, and i know its more then that. There is a wide veriaty of missions and the ranking is very 
 good. The EA servers can sometimes break down but rearly. THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY FOR ANYONE WITH 
 LIVE. THE multiplayer is so fun. There are always enough players. THe graphics are realy very good. 
 Not amazing for the 360 but they blow away the current gen. The sound is good and the controls 
 are very good aswell. This game does not shame to the PC version and is a very good console shooter. 
 If you have live you need this game if you dont have live dont even think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxpoo521xx
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  how the hell do you beat the level with all of the AAA missile sites that takes place on a mountain? 
 Up until that point the game is good, alot better than that stupid GRAW. What i want to know is 
 what was going through the heads of the designers when they made this mission... oh we'll make 
 this mission incompleteable so the can get 100+ hours of gameplay? Well the multiplayer is good 
 but what i dont like is you cant get bots.. id rather face bots than people cause bots dont talk 
 and talking is annoying. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 modern combat is one of those games where your not completely sure if you are enjoying 
 it at the time that you are playing it or whether you are just playing it because it's there. I 
 will strat by saying that If you have not access to xbox live then go look at another game because 
 this is not for you the single player is fairly awful. The multiplayer however is a lot of fun. 
 It's simple and enjoyable. The game is simple, anybody can be good at it and it doesn't really 
 take much skill so everybody is generally about the same at it because it more about being in the 
 right place at the right time than anything else. It does however have its moment swhere the game 
 is a lot of fun and you will find hours of time has gone due to the amount of playtime put in. 
 The game however does suffer from not having enough game types to play online there are only two, 
 capture the flag and conquest, both feel pritty similar as they both involve capturing flags in 
 order to win however CTF is a little more fast paced. The gameplay is easy to get to grips with 
 and is appeling, there are five different soldier classes to master all of which feel fairly differnt 
 from each other. The controls however are difficult to master and can be confusing as they are 
 unlike any other FPS that I can think of. The main point of the gameplay is that overall it is 
 fun. The gameplay does fall a bit on the vehicals side, the vehicals can be fun and generally work 
 well, however they can be used a bit too much and they can be used to spawn kill which can be fruastratingly 
 annoying. The graphics don't really look all that great level design is o. k and character modles 
 do look good but there are many problems. The shadows are around the worst that I have seen in 
 a long time and they look more like black squares than anything else. The game also has has some 
 problems with solid walls and floors as sometimes guns can come through walls and give away posistions. 
 The sound is another bad spot about the game they are simply annoying and you will soon be putting 
 custom tracks on top of it as you become sick of the pure nostalga that they bring on having heard 
 the same music a thousand times. The game however does offer good value for money just because 
 the game is so playable on multiplayer and it's easy to loose hours of life on it. 
  
  Gameplay: Good on multiplayer but don't expect anything but bad news on single.
  
  Graphics: 
 Good, but it does suffer from some of the worst shadow effects that I have seen in a long time. 
 
  
  Sound: o. k for a while but after hours of play they become annoying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Very good fps (first person shoter) game it also has good frame rate so that makes gameplay very 
 smooth and cool to play! What is so good in this game is the Online gameplay well single player 
 is fine to but i liked Online better like almost every person who played bf2: mc if you want to 
 compare it to pc bf2 well let's compare it :
  
  minus to pc is bugs, lag, minor graphics bugs, glitches and frame rate !
  plus to pc is : It has 
 planes,64player support, mod community, kinda more players!
  
  minus to xbox360 version of bf2: mc is: no planes, no mod community and lag problems (olny if you 
 using servers that are located far away from you)
  
  plus to xbo360 version of bf2: mc is: no lag (in local servers) , awesome clan  
 talkin HD here ) and many maps !
  
  Well it's hard to tell wich is better but... play them both i think each one has somthing better 
 and somthing worse ! So try them both !
  
  It has highly addictive Online ;-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I was wondering if this version was going to be an improvement from the last gen versions. I never 
 played the other versions but from what ive heard the only big imrovement was the graphics. The 
 detail on vehicles and soldiers is impressive however that is over shadowed by the crappy everything 
 else. The single player is flat-out horrible. The multiplayer is the only reason to give this game 
 a try. Weapon detail is also fairly well done. Vehicle control could use some work especially on 
 the cars. The helicopters take a while to master but once you do, it works like clockwork. The 
 sound is good in 5.1, but anything else, is average. Like i said, the single player gameplay is 
 pathetic. Its repetitive, boring, and at some parts, excrutiatingly tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaws1291
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  This by far has got to be my favorite first person shooter out there for the 360. Here are some 
 pros and cons of the game::
  
  Pros:
  1) Realistic. Alot of people say it is unrealistic but I just dont see how I can agree with them. 
 2) The weapon kits are awesome. Instead of just choosing one weapon and finding them on the way 
 when people die, you can choose a weapon kit with several weapons. 3) Online is awesome. The campeign 
 is alright but on xbox live it is amazing! Thumbs up for that!
  
  Cons:
  1) The weapon kits are fun to use but the only thing is I think you should be able to pick up enemy 
 weapons when you kill them.
  
  There you have it. More pros then cons means a great game. If you have xbox live then this is a 
 must have.
  
  ??? Why do so many people say it is unrealistic? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoonROBOT
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Very fun and diverse shooter that will leave you entertained for months."
  It is true that this is just a simple port of the Xbox version to the Xbox 360, but then again, 
 why fix something that isn't broke? There are technical faults in the game that I admit should 
 have been taken care of because the problem were present in the Xbox 360 demo and some problems 
 were still existent on the Xbox version. For example in the demo of the game theres is a glitch 
 that by random chance, disables your ability to hear AND speak with your teammates. In the first 
 week of launch EA addressed the problem and announced they will soon be releasing a patch to fix 
 the problem. But the biggest fault in my opinion that should have been dealt with in the Xbox version 
 was the support of clan servers. All of EA's online games are run strictly on EA's servers, and 
 yes they work perfectly fine most of the time for regular multiplayer battles. The clan servers 
 have almost constantly been crashed.
  
  And true to every battlefield game that has risen from Dice, the multiplayer segment of the battlefield 
 franchise is where it truly shines. And yes it may be fun for a while to play with random people 
 in Public servers but the Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is most enjoyable when you play clan matches 
 that demand teamwork and organization. If you enjoy a run of the mill run and gun then by all means 
 go to public servers and go at it, but you get a true tactical experience when you have two organized 
 teams battling for there place on the worlds leader boards. Proving to the other team that your 
 better than them by pure skill in teamwork really gives you a sense of achievement.
  
  But the multiplayer in general is also very diverse, with 5 different classes or 'kits', each as 
 designated for it's own purpose. The Assault class has it's main purpose as disposing of infantry 
 men with an Assault Rifle and Grenades. Perfect for taking flags and eliminating a threat to your 
 own. The sniper class has a a sniper that is a 1 shot one kill given that you hit anywhere on the 
 enemies body. They are also equipped with a laser designator that locks on to vehicles and sends 
 an air-born missile straight on top to deliver maximum damage. Some people say that this kit is 
 very over powered, however in my opinion it's power is countered with a death cam that shows you 
 exactly where the player that killed you is. Thus enabling you to spawn as a sniper yourself and 
 take care of the threat, now it's a battle between who has better aim you or him.
  
  Special Operations class has a silenced Sub-Machine gun that comes in very handy when your behind 
 enemy lines and need to keep your position secret. The kit also carries C4, flashbangs, and a knife, 
 a perfect way to humiliate someone who loves to camp. Engineer class has a rocket launcher that 
 is very effective against all vehicles. They're main weapon how ever is a shot gun that hails superior 
 in all very close combat situations. Also carry a blowtorch to repair vehicles and land mines. 
 Lat but not least is the Support class that has an Health Injector that enables to heal your self 
 and even your teammates. They're most unique weapon is a little radio that gives you the command 
 to call in a mortar strike on a designated area.
  
  And don't let me get started on the vehicles. Civilian cars, helicopters, tanks, amphibious tanks, 
 boats. It has it all. With 16 maps at your disposal and 5 different kits o play as, they is never 
 a game that plays out exactly the same so matter how many times you played the game. The game is 
 very accessible to beginners and veterans alike looking for a challenge. Lag with 24 players is 
 virtually non existent and you can jump right in a ranked or unranked game within seconds.
  
  I highly recommend this title if you are a First Person Shooter fan looking for a very fun 
 and enjoyable multiplayer experience. However if your only looking into for it's single player. 
 It's still enjoyable but the heart of the game is Multiplayer like it always has been.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  So I was super pumped to finially have this game. When I started to play it I was amazed at how 
 good it looked but was a little disapointed about the game play. I did however think it was better 
 than the reviews said it was. The real low down on the game as far as the single player goes is 
 it has a lot of really cool aspects to it. First the grafix are great, I mean the game looks really 
 good. The hotswap is really fun especially when you get into taking out certain targets. Another 
 aspect that was ok is the little bonus power ups you get during gameplay. The overall of it is 
 that it just doesn't really matter in general it is just a gimmick. The game itself is OK ,the 
 respawning of the bad guys gets annoying and really makes the game cheesy at times. The weapons 
 are just ok. I did not get a feel of over half the weapons in the game. They could have had more 
 use if there was more af a tactical aspect to the game itself. For the most part you will just 
 stick to 2 or 3 different ones. I know the game is not like the Call of Duty series but it really 
 needs some work on the weapons and enemy and objective side of it. The vehicles in the game are 
 semi as well, nothing special sometimes it gets a little ridiculous to switch from driving to weapons 
 when you are trying to get things done. The objectives are really just average also. Getting through 
 some of them is sometimes frustrating.
  I dont recommend anybody to buy this game unless you have no other choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PainTrane
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  frickin awesome game, very realistic, awesome multiplayer, only two unrealistic parts i could find 
 (parachute, hot-swap) , i love military/strategy based combat. especially when you can choose from 
 4 different armies, 50+ weapons, 30+ vehicles, and 5 different soldier classes. beats Halo 2 with 
 game engine, realism, and map size. vehicles, weapons, and soldier classes are very much on the 
 accurate to real side, you can actually see bullets feed into a machine gun, and fly at realistic 
 speed, if you have a sniper rifle you'll have to aim ahead of your target (if you're far away) 
 to hit them, and finally there are realistic artillery strikes to bomb the shart out of your enemies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berkie420
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 for the 360 is a fast paced, arcade style fps that is best played on line for the 
 best experience. Ive been playing Modern Combat on the 360 since it came out, and while it is the 
 game i play most, its not without flaws.
  For being "Modern" ..., where are the jets? No "modern" battlefield in the world exists without 
 jets. Small complaint, but the pc version seems to be more realistic.
  I have a very fast connection but still experience occasional lag. Also the EA servers seem to 
 be very unstable, as I have been routinely booted out of games. I know that it happens to others 
 because you will see five to six people getting kicked out of your game at the same time on a regular 
 basis.
  About once or twice a week i cant log on at all and i get "The Battlefield 2 server is temporarily 
 out of service, try again later" message, yet my roommate is still playing on his TV.
  The other major problem isn't the games fault, but the players. 99% of the time, people will vote 
 for only 2 out of the 16 available maps, (Backstab, Bridge too far) . All of the maps can be very 
 fun, but i guess people like to get really good at only one map. You can just select to filter 
 your game search to All Maps" you say? Sure, yet when you search for "All Maps" you get back 13 
 Vote maps and like 2 All Maps.... usually the ones with the worst connection speed.
  Other than that, ive had a blast playing BF2mc and there is a lot of fun to be had in the on line 
 mode. The first time you hop in any of the games plethora of vehicles and tear it up you get hooked. 
 vehicles range from armed snowmobiles and LAV's, to Apache attack helicopters and M 1A1 Abrams.
 
  There are only two on line modes, Conquest, where you have several control points on a map and 
 both teams must try to control more areas. You take over an area by standing near the flag. The 
 more of your team is near the flag the faster you take it. Sounds easy, right? Then you have the 
 Capture the Flag mode. CTF is much more fast paced than conquest as the maps are much smaller and 
 there is only 2 flags, yours and theirs. In CTF, you actually must make it to the enemy flag, grab 
 it my walking over it, and taking it all the way back to your flag. If you are killed with the 
 flag, it is automatically returned to its base. This mode is great for some real quick action, 
 but it gets old quick due to the limited size of the maps.
  The achievements are ,like most 360 games, not all that easy to come by.
  You must actually get 
 some kills and survive to get them, unless you "boost". Some people ive come across like to team 
 up to get medals. They call it boosting. I think its hilarious because they get a high rank and 
 end up playing with some REAL pros and get their buts handed to them. 
  Single player you ask? ........ Nope, none to speak of. Seriously, don't bother with the campaign 
 mode, it is boring compared to the on line. Some people like to practise offline, but in this case, 
 the game is no good to anyone but pilots how want to practise flying, because the enemy AI behaves 
 nothing like what you will come across on line.
  All in all i highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a real challenge and if you like 
 fps's in general you will enjoy this game. Of course you should download the demo off of XBL and 
 find out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tundraman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awsome online FPS. I only recomend it for the online. It would not be very smart 
 to get only for the single player. But as for the online, It is very unique and large. But sadly 
 there is only 2 game types. Conquest were you capture territoryes and CTF. Its not that bad but 
 it would have ben cool to see a team death match or objective game modes. The servers are ok (EA 
 always hosts games) but they are eather very good or supper slow. Witch is not realy a problem 
 to worry about. The game has 13 maps and 4 nations to play with, These nations include MEC (Middle 
 eastern coalition) , China, America and Europe (NATO) . There are a great amount of weapons and weapon 
 classes but it would have ben better to see more weapon classes like anti tank (insted of just 
 engeneer having anti tank capibilties) and marksman insted of the basic 5 in this game (special 
 op, Assault, Sniper, Engeneer, Support.) . The amont of weapons are great but it would have been 
 nice to have a knife for every class and mabey 1 or 2 more weapons per class (like satchel charges 
 or insinuary mines) or stun grenaides for more then one class. It would have also ben nice to use 
 the Iorn sights on all the weapons insted of the teliscopic scopes or a cross hair for the assualt 
 rifles or LMG's. Other than that the sound afects are great and the loading is realistic, Ecept 
 for the fact that you have a reloading meter wich sucks when you are using a rocket launcher because 
 even if the launcher looks loaded you still have to waight like 1 to 2 seconds for the meter to 
 fill.
  As for vehecles ther are a great amount of them From boats, light and heavy tanks, anti aircraft 
 vehecles, HVV's and other jeep like vehecles, boats and helicopters. But it would have been better 
 to see a combat jet or somthing of that type. But the Vehecles are very accesorized and there are 
 also normal civilian vehecles in most maps. Almost all vehecles have mounted weapons from Miniguns 
 to 50 cals to mounted grenade launches. Witch gets me to my next topic, Mounted weapons, There 
 are a great amont, Every nation has a different .50 cal and a mounted grenade launcher and a GTAM 
 launcher. or normal mounted rocket launchers. But it would have been better to see mounted artillery 
 or things of that type.
  As for player and controls. Controls are easy along with the inventory for your weapons. you have 
 a a life meter witch dose not work as well as realsitc. For one thing it takes way to many shots 
 to kill some one in SOME instances like using a shot gun or hand gun. But other wise every thing 
 is solid. I love this game very much. Ther might be some things missing but im sure the 360 sequal 
 will fix these problems.
  I deeply recomend this game to online players with good skill because if you are just a recreational 
 player or you are not that good you will not enjoy this game as much as you think you will.
  A very awsome online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarrieTheOnly
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  wow what to say about this game well first the bad. the gay campain is slow aoying and confusing 
 most of the time i only knew what country i was is by the look of the guns and what the frick u 
 were doin there is beyond me all i knew was to shoot the others guys that shot at me. now the good 
 well to sum it up in a few choice words  and entertaning 
 and that was pretty much the online. have u frick sen the gun grapics d@nm thats good stuff right 
 there. i give this game a 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdilh
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer in this game in outrageous, I find the game extremely satisfying. The singleplayer 
 is fun at times, but I found myself running through the singleplayer without any problem, even 
 the last level was not as hard as everybody said. Like I said the multiplayer is great, this is 
 where the game is shining. There is 24 player online, and there are many games that are maxed out. 
 It is a fun large mapping adventure. The graphics are great, but are alittle too jagged, but the 
 weapon models are decently detailed. The sound is just so.. so, nothing special. The multiplayer 
 brings in the value of course with olng, fun games. This game is a buy if you love, epic, vast 
 destruction and chaos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deaver666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Played the single-player game first of all its fantastic to look at compared to the last and I 
 am glad they put a single player campaign for the offline unlike the PC version. But I must say 
 the only bad thing and thats whoever programmed the A. I is a complete idiot a monkey would be more 
 helpfull than these fully trained marines. But its Frantic its Fun and its all out war with a brilliant 
 story to back it :D
  
  Online they could have done us a favour and ported the PC version.
  I mean for the first few 
 weeks it was hell! The lag the communication it should deserve a poor rating! but iv waited till 
 now and now its the strongest online game I have ever played (after about 2-3 patches!) The teams 
 act like teams instead of doing there own thing and that is hard to find in any game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minime78362
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm writing this review like I have never played a shooting game, I'm not going to 
 base it off any other game, or say that some other game has something else, this is what a person 
 that hasn't played a video game in their life would think.
  Anyway, I put in this game, as soon as I got home from the store, and I was suprised to find that 
 this game, although good in some spots, has some very bad spots. The single player is okay, but not 
 that fun. It's very difficult sometimes, and controlling vehicles are almost unmanageable. The Singleplayer 
 almost seems like it wants you to play only for achievements, and that's it, because there isn't 
 no other reason to play the single player.
  The Multiplayer is good to say the least. This game has very good multiplayer with 24 people on 
 one server. I have never had any lag on this game, and people complain about EA Servers, but I see 
 no problem. Once you're done playing the usual Conquest mode, you can vote for what map you want 
 to play next. People only play a few maps, but I've found the ones they don't play are hard to get 
 used to, but are very fun. Weapons are fun to fire, and the different countries are fun to play on. Voice 
 chat doesn't happen in the game, because no one uses their mics most of the time. Controls in this 
 game are alright, some control spots are weird, and the sound in this game, is very good.
  My opinion is, this game is worth $60 if you like online games a lot, if you don't then don't even 
 bother with this one, unless you're an achievement addict.
  Please Try this Game Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat offers a somewhat underappreciated single player campaign, and a somewhat 
 overappreciated multiplayer component. Though multiplayer is the only reason making battlefield 
 worth the $60, its overrated.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty poor for a "next-gen" game. Battlefield on the 360 looks like 
 it could run on the xbox or ps2 (never played original xbox or ps2 version) . The lighting is really 
 jagged and looks stupid except when the light reflects off your weapon. The weapons are the only 
 thing that look "next-gen". All of them look great. Player models often look ridiculous unless 
 they are standing still. If you look around people don't actually walk or run, unless they're moving 
 forward or backwards. They just kind of slide around most of the time. Vehicles bare a striking 
 resemblance to the real ones, but still look funny for some reason. Textures are good at a distance 
 and like most games ugly up close. Though they usually get worse at further distances than other 
 games on the 360. I also noticed something with the snow effects when you look into a building 
 while its snowing, its snowing in the building, and when you enter the building it just magically 
 disappears after a few steps in which just kind of caught my attention for some reason. That all 
 said the graphics aren't bad enough to make this game not playable.
  
  The sound effects and dialogue are slightly above average. Though throughout the campaign it gets 
 really annoying listening to fellow soldiers constantly **** about how they are under too much 
 fire to advance. The commanders that brief you sound pretty good. The weapons sound really good. 
 I was surprised when the I found out that when you were in a tunnel or something the sound effects 
 drastically changed the way you'd expect, which is a nice touch. Hearing weapons in the distance 
 helps too. The music is kind of wierd, but at the same time fits the game well. 
  
  Good replay value with the multiplayer. You'll probably get plenty of hours of playtime out of 
 that alone, that is of course if you've got Xbox Live. The singleplayer has the average length 
 of any other singleplayer FPS. There are challenges that can be unlocked that you may perform. 
 You can compete on the leaderboards with friends, join a clan, and unlock some achievements. The 
 singleplayer will probably only get you one or two playthroughs though.
  
  The singleplayer portion of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is like I stated above somewhat underappreciated. 
 Some missions are fun most are not. The objectives are similar in a bunch of missions. The AI on 
 both sides are just horrible. Of course if the enemy AI were any better the game would be impossible, 
 because if your in close quarters combat with them it can get pretty damn hard, unless you have 
 an assault rifle with a grenade launcher which when you shoot it near enemies they turn around 
 and stand still for a few seconds like idiots. Your allies are stupid as hell. They can shoot for 
 **** and are basically no help at all except for the fact that when you die, you come back as one 
 of them. Also there is a unique hotswap mechanic in the game where you may swich to any of your 
 fellow soldiers at any given time. Its cool at first, but becomes lame after awhile. Also killing 
 enemies will increase your multiplier, and when your multiplier reaches a full bar you'll gain 
 a stat boost. You can gain around five bars at any given time, though get to the highest point 
 is very rare. Challenges are interesting and a challenge (who would of thought) . Not a challenge 
 in the sense of completion, but in the sense of get a full 3 stars on them. The challenges are 
 usually very similar with race, weapon, and hotswap variants. Though they'll get harder as you 
 go down the list.
  
  The multiplayer is great but overrated. It would be so much more fun if you would get the oppertunity 
 to play some levels other than Backstab, Bridgetoofar, and Deadly Pass. You'll probably spend the 
 majority of your online playtime on these three maps, and rarely play any other map. It gets old 
 playing the same level over and over again. The online is still fun, it just needs variety. I've 
 played around 40-50 hours online and I don't think I've played all the maps. The rank system is 
 really cool too, using actuall ranks in the military. It gets really hard to advance in rank after 
 awhile though. Weapons in multiplayer are also very inconsistent. You may shoot at someone first 
 in prone with a more powerful gun, and he'll kill you standing upright its crap, but it happens 
 all the time. 
  
  There is one more thing I would like to complain about and that is the controls, which are very 
 hard too get used to. They are the wierdest FPS controls to use to after playing any other FPS 
 ever made for a long period of time. The controls work, though they'll be hard to get used to, 
 and just seem out of the blue.
  
  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a good FPS for its multiplayer. Without Live it is a mediocre game 
 and should not be purchased. You should probably try this one before you buy, as its contains plenty 
 of mixed reactions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  At long last, Battlefield 2 hits the xbox 360. Battlefield fands rejoice in the wonder that is 
 the game-type "conquest"
  
  As you know, Battlefield was scheduled to be released near the launch of the xbox 360, unfortunatley 
 it was delayed. But now it is out. And personally I'm loving it.
  
  The First thing i noticed when i first turned on battlefield 2, was that there was no offline multiplayer. 
 This was a disapointment, but then again, most people just play with their friends online now-a-days. 
 so i didnt fret over it too much.
  
  What i liked though, in modern combat, is that the Single Player Missions actually had a storyline 
 to them, instead of jut random maps, that you could do the same thing in free-play mode. You start 
 off as an american unit, and follow objectives and such, then youll find yourself playing as the 
 chinese, then back the the americans, and such. It has a nice timing, letting you play just enough 
 of each faction without getting tired of it.
  
  Another thing that is pretty cool in Modern combat is the new hot-swap feature, this way, you can 
 control all the troops in the battlefield at any time. Let me explain how this feature works. Lets 
 say you see a friendly soldier maybe 30 yards right in front of you, you can simply press the x 
 button, and the camera will do some swirly dizzy transatction, and youll suddenly find yourself 
 as the character you were just looking at a few seconds ago. This is very useful, and youll get 
 out of many tight situations with this feature. Lets say, you were a sniper, and you saw an enemy 
 tank pop up right in front of you, and you see an engineer off not too far. You can simply press 
 the x button, take control of the engineer, and blow up the tank, without dieing whatsoever. Although 
 you cannot use this in multiplayer, it is pretty cool in single player.
  
  One thing i also noticed is the in-ability to bring guests online in a server with you. I mean 
 i pluged in 2 controllers, press the start button on the second controller, and everything. If 
 you can bring a guest online, im yet to see it. And i've even asked the boards (and they dont know 
 either.)
  
  One thing that bugged me about battlefield 2 is the fact that single player can get real hard sometimes. 
 Youll find yourself restarting missions often, consulting the forums/faq's very very often. But 
 finally when you beat the game, youll realize you can still continue. Battle field 2 has this cool 
 feature where you can upgrade and get new weapons for your troops as you beat more and more missions. 
 And as you do this, these hard missions can sometimes get quite a bit easier. But after you get 
 every gun, and upgrade all of them, you really dont have much else to do with singleplayer. You 
 can replay the missions AGAIN, but noone with a healthy attension span can do this effectivley.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeromind_Eric
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  One of those games where you just wished they'd held onto it and tested it a bit longer. Battlefield 
 2: Modern Combat for the Xbox 360 is the exact same game as that on the original Xbox system with 
 just a better paint job. The single player portion of the game is pretty bad. Not that the game 
 play or mechanics are poor, just the actual missions and objectives. The game shines online and 
 the single player seems to try to mirror what the multiplayer side has. It just could not be done. 
 At times, the SP missions almost act as MP training levels. This even has you left not knowing 
 what to do or how to do it a lot of the time. Get used to flying Helo's online and learning the 
 hard way fast. 
  
  If you have XBL, this is where you will get your money's worth. Although games like GRAW steel 
 the show, BFMC:2 can be fun at times with all the different vehicles. Again, not designed very 
 well but, you can drive vehicles around. With the early headset issues that EA had with the game 
 at launch, you will not find a single person communicating with anyone else. This leaves most people 
 with a big disadvantage for a game like this does require a lot of teamwork. At this point, it 
 is man for themselves on XBL. Irritating, a waste of time, and pointless. 
  
  If you don't have this game, don't bother purchasing it. Rent first. If you are looking for a military 
 type tactical shooter, get GRAW. This one, falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomcowdung
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  At first glance Battlefield 2: Modern combat may seem like an epic multiplayer experience, "An 
 All out War on a Living Battlefield", but somehow it falls remarkably short. It's hard to tell 
 where exactly Battlefield 2 goes wrong, perhaps its somewhere between the horrible announcers ( 
 IF I have to hear "They've taken flag 1 or any of that garbage again I swear I'm going to scream, 
 not to mention the foreign voice acting is horrible, I bet even if you spoke Chinese you would 
 say Dude WTF) Horrible Servers ( Hey it's EA what can you expect) , and many other problems too 
 numerous to mention, but what REALLY KILLS Battlefield is that it's online is NOT fun.
  
  In a game foucused on "team based combat" you would expect "Teamwork" to be a big part of the game, 
 but its not, the whole thing is just a huge disorganized mess, and 90% of the time no one even 
 talks, and Communication is supposed to be a key part in a game like this. The weapons are generic, 
 and have no sese of power whatsoever, you would think shooting a rocket would give you some kind 
 of feedback, but I guess that's just Too much to ask for. EA seems to be too concerned about rushing 
 out a product to market to worry about its key problems.
  
  Annother thing, why the heck do you always rebound off of the wall you are trying to jump over, 
 if I'm not mistaken jumping is there so you don't have to worry about things like being confined 
 to rooftop. Walking, (what should be such a basic element is horrible in this game, we're onn earth, 
 so I don't think the developers really need to be worried about Zero-Gravity this much, but hey 
 maybe thats just me. Seriously though, it feels like your're walking on a cloud or something, not 
 a solid surface ( It's called ground, EA!)
  
  The weapon vehicle selection is pretty bad, and people end up teamkilling you all the time just 
 so they can get the stupid Helicopter, which is the only flying vehicle, but hey You know variey 
 isn't everything, and TWO game modes, come on TWO, that's not even like THREE! All In all Battlefield 
 2 is a horrible and frustrating multiplayer experience, and EA once again turns what could've been 
 fun into a gamers nightmare
  
  PS. Don't even get me started on the EA servers!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seram
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, they just don't make balloon bouncing bad announcing cloud walking poor gunplay action 
 games like they used to. Anyway, like you can well imagine, I'm not very fond of this game. It's 
 OKAY, if you use that word very loosely, so loosely in fact, that is would be so hard to read the 
 word OKAY, that is might end up looking like CRAPPY. So in otherwords, when I say the game is OKAY, 
 I'm basicly saying that the game is CRAPPY. I mean, I like poor action annoying announcing wall 
 bouncing cloud walking jaggy shadow viewing repetitive guns and unrealistic physics gameplay as 
 much as the next guy (which according to the other reviews, is pretty much everybody) , but I honestly 
 think this game is "OKAY" if you know what I mean. I'm sure this next comment is going to make 
 a lot of you mad because most battlefield players hate halo, but I think that anyone who's played 
 halo for more than 6 months knows a good multiplayer game when they see it. Like Counter-Strike. 
 And trust me, this is no CS or Halo. I mean, the Battlefield for the PC is relatively fun, but 
 this one, uh-uh, not buying it. So, anyway, it's not many time you come across a game with such 
 a bad multiplayer, even though thats what it's based around. But the funny think is, that most 
 of the other ones are also on the 360 as well. If I have to here "They've captured flag/base one!" 
 EVER again, I'm going to kill myself. Also, may this last comment show you how bad this game is. 
 EA SERVERS. EA servers should be enough to show you the light. I hope you make the right choice. 
 Have fun anyway...... but just remember, EA servers are the worst servers ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  There are some games that really don't need to much of a story. For example: Counterstrike, Unreal 
 Championship, Unreal Tournament and the Battlefield games. Because the multiplayer is addicting 
 and full of worthiness. The ranking system and achievements are placed out greatly. Too fun for 
 words... it honestly is. Battlefield 2 also supports IN GAME CLANS!! Just like halo 2!!!! The controls 
 are easy to configure with, so FPS fans are right at home.... Great graphics, realistic weapons, 
 player customization, everything! Levels are well complexed and with the choice of anything battlefield 
 2 modern combat makes games personal.... again. You'll find yourself addicted with this game.... 
 oh yes you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield for the 360 is one of the most underrated games I have ever played. First off you can't 
 review this game on the single player missions that is not the focus of the game the real focus 
 is the multiplayer action. The graphics are some of the best on the 360 and the best fps graphics. 
 the sound really sets the mood wither its the roar of a tank or a m203 being fired at you it keeps 
 you on your feet. The only downsides to BF:2 is the lack of gameplay modes and the lack of maps. 
 Other than that i say this game is at least a 9.5 and a deffintaly a buy ONLY IF YOU HAVE XBOX 
 LIVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Have to say first of all, great multiplayer. Thats all what battlefield is about. The single player 
 sucks and like every single battlefield it has great and entertaining muliplayer. The achievements 
 are hard to get and the difficulty in the single player is a little hard but it depends on how 
 good you are. The multiplayer is all where this game is at. The game has some amazing moments you 
 will experience and there are some glitches in the game but dont really bother the gameplay. Unrealistic 
 fun and it is just great only if you have xbox live, if you dont stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIceDragon437
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is awesome. The maps are great. I do not think I have had a better multiplayer 
 experience on the 360 yet. The single player was cool but could most definitely use some fixing 
 up. But hey whatever floats EA's boat! I think that I defintely got my money's worth in this game. 
 But seriously you either have to be a single and multiplayer person or just a multiplayer person 
 to really get the full experience of it. The biggest thing is the conrtols are very different from 
 any of the other shooter games I have played but you get used to the controls real fast. Another 
 thing in multiplayer that I have found is that you really have to know the map and if you dont 
 make sure you pay attention to the map in the upper right corner otherwise it will not be a fun 
 game for you.
  
  GREAT GAME THOUGH!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The story mode in battlefield may not be the best but where single player lacks xbox live makes 
 up. Single player is a bit dull and it's the same old thing over again but live is a whole different 
 thing. Xbox live you can hook up with all your friends and play against each other. Hate your teammates 
 easy C4 there helicopter or jeep. Battlefield is the best multi-player game to date for xbox 360 
 and is highly addictive. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME IF YOU DON'T HAVE XBOX LIVE. The game dos'nt have 
 the best graphics in the world but the game play is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatefreak89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  this review is about BF2MC.
  
  The singleplayer
  This is the worst part of the game. everything from the sigleplayer isn't right. The A. I., NPC's 
 can shoot you from a mile away with a shotgun, they always shoot you, not other friendly npc's. 
 thats why it is hard to get the achievements. Very very frustrating, when you see friendly guys 
 just walk over to the enemy just to be shot. the levels are pretty hard, just because the enemy 
 shoots only you.
  The hotswapping works great, when somebody else is standing at a better spot to shoot the enemie 
 you can just hotswap too it. good job EA about that.
  
  The multiplayer
  Multiplayer is good fun. Great levels and good, but few, game modes. Its too bad that almost nobody 
 talks. I'm getting the idea that i'm playing singleplayer. 
  
  Achievements
  Some achievements are easy to get, but the most are almost impossible to get. 
  
  +Good multiplayer
 
  +Good levels
  
  - Frustrating and very bad A. I. 
  
  After all I enjoyed this game, but not for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game defines online multiplayer. People should buy xbox live for this and for halo 2. The 
 single player of this game is not bad, it can be very challenging. The very first level pits you 
 against hordes of enemies, and the objectives only get harder and harder as you progress. The missions 
 are fun though, and hotswapping (switching between characters with the X button by pointing to 
 them) helps a lot. There are also special challenges in the game. Some examples are a drop off 
 challenge where you drive around in a jeep and pick up soldiers and take them back to base in a 
 certain time limit. Another example is the hotswap challenge, which is very, very difficult, in 
 which you hotswap to get to a certain player in a small amount of time. Online and off there are 
 4 different nations with 5 classes in each nation. They are Assault, Sniper, Special Ops, Engineer, 
 and Support. Each class has it's own advantages and disadvantages (my personal favorite is Special 
 Ops) . Offline, you can only choose between who you have on the level with you, some classes can't 
 be used in some levels. Online however, whenever you die, you are given the option of which class 
 to respawn as. Another great part of this game is it's wide variety of weapons of vehicles. Weapon's 
 of course depend on class (in this game you can't pick up weapons, you have what you have depending 
 on your class) . There are lots of vehicles usable in online and off. They include jeeps, cars, 
 vans, snow mobiles, tanks, boats, and helicopters. Each nation has it's own unique variety of vehicles, 
 and almost every vehicle fits at least 2 people. The helicopter is very fun to use online and off. 
 The highlight of this game is it's online multiplayer. The online multiplayer of this game is only 
 2nd to Halo 2. It is easily the best 360 live game. Games usually consist of at least 16 people, 
 and can go upto 24. Mainly the type of gameplay is Conquest, where your team must capture flags 
 and defend them, and the enemy team tries to do the same. The levels are very detailed and fun 
 to play on. Vehicles are still usable online, and levels have several anti-vehicle weapons. Also 
 online levels have an Airstrike post which can be used every now and then and it pretty much calls 
 in an airstrike on an area of choosing. Overall, the online of this game is amazing and a must 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtnhl11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good on xbox live but the single player on this game really is bad. Its pretty 
 short for the most part the graphics are decent and it gets a little boring. I wish i could go 
 back in time to when i bought this game because i would not of bought it 60 dollers is not worth 
 it for good sound and xbox live. I gave it a 5.5 because it was such a let down and defintly not 
 a xbox 360 game. Well buy the grahpics it is not though. Overall only buy this if you are in love 
 with fps and/or you play xbox live all day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShyter
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game now for a little over a month and it is awesome. The game play is very 
 realistic. Many different types of buildings and area's to explore. The weapons are very detailed 
 and lifelike. The different vehicles and helicopters are unbelievable. Whether you like playing 
 in a close combat type of setting or if you like to be a sniper, you can experience the best of 
 both worlds. There are many sniping area's to chose from per board. And speaking of boards, lots 
 to chose from with excellent roaming capabilitites. 
  
  I am very happy with the way the game plays.... especially on Xbox Live. I've read reveiws on here 
 and on other sites that the game is no much different from the original version. I've played both 
 and although many characteristics are the same, there is much that has changed. In my opinion if 
 something is not broke.... why fix it? Get the game, get online and play live..... its totally worth 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Okay, Battlefield 2 modern combat combines sublime all-around graphics and outstanding multiplayer 
 performance. When playing online on battlefield 2, you will 99.9/100 will not experience lag, i 
 have never experienced lag on this game in my life. and unlike call of duty and g. r. a. w , it's 
 not 8 players online, not 16, but 24, that's right 24 and no lag.. Sounds good huh? anyway, that's 
 not it, i know ghost recon has a ranking system but for me it's not as good as battlefields ranking 
 system, you go up in ranks, e. g, private, corporal, lance corporal, etc.
  
  Anyway, it's all good, because when you first connect to the ea server and go online on battlefield, 
 it tells you how much more score you need and pph etc. to advance to the next rank. It's a great 
 game, it also announces things lkieBlah Blahis one of the top players in SNIPER kit in 6th 
 place in the leaderboard, which is also shown on the information bar at the bottom.
  
  There are 46 achievements for this game, so it will take you a darn good while to complete, although 
 i must say, if you do not have xbox live then i wouldn't buy the game, because at least half of 
 the achievement score and 3/4 of the fun comes from online gameplay, but that doesn't mean count 
 out the campaign mode is good, and unlike call of duty, which does show that your in the war with 
 all the screaming and etc. going on around you, with this game, symbolising "modern combat" you 
 can hear the missiles being shot and the missiles landing, you see the explosions, cars blowing 
 up and people screaming/talking tactically on how they are planning to attack. it's a absolutely 
 fabulous single player mode yes.
  
  Anyway, about the online, incase your wondering yes, you can drive cars, helicopters, boats, tanks, 
 snow mobile's etc. because that's what happens in modern combat, you drive around, the maps on 
 this game are huge and are basically unlimited, literally you can go away from the action and lie 
 down on a mountain in some place and snipe people, it's a very rare occasion you do get such an 
 opportunity, but in a map named "Bridge TooFar" You can sit on a mountain next to the opponents 
 spawn place and snipe a couple of times, but you are visible with a long-range gun and you will 
 end up being shot. 
  
  Online game modes: The online game modes.. to be quite honest there is not alot of option, there 
 are 2 online game modes, Capture The Flag (CTF) / Conquest, i'm assuming you know what capture 
 the flag is so i'll just quickly explain conquest..
  Conquest; the aim of the game is to take all the flags and make your opponents "tickets/numbers" 
 run out, the one that runs out first loses, you basically need to go to a flag, lie next to it, 
 stand/sit in a car or a tank or anything, and wait for all of the bars to fill up so that it then 
 becomes your flag and you control it, you can then spawn at the spots which you have won, but each 
 team has a default spawning point. So not everything can be taken, only the available flags, it's 
 honestly enjoyable.
  
  You know, when you first get the game trust me you won't think so highly of it, you will seriously 
 contemplate taking it back, and probably try, but trust me and listen to me here, DO NOT take it 
 back at 1st thing, give it a week, let it sink in and you will have endless fun out of it, you 
 can plant bombs on cars and blow them up when someone gets in (online) and you can go to a computer 
 database when an artillery strike is available and you can air-strike a point on the map where 
 alot of your opponents are, and kill a few off, the weapons bit is really cool, the maps are huge, 
 there's lots of achievements, and i don't think i've quite seen every map yet either, so if i were 
 you and i had live, i'd buy this game.
  
  -XterNal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  I have both the Xbox and the 360 verison and they are both addictive!!!! The 360 has really good 
 graphics and it takes about a hour or so to get used to the controls but after that you are on 
 a roll killing the other team with tanks, helicopters, jeeps, rockets, guns, torches (my favorite) 
 but all in all the color scheme is good shadowing and lighting are very good especially on the 
 360 version..... You can tell you are playing the same game on both only difference is that the 
 graphics are better.... If you have the xbox or the 360 you wont be disappointed with this game 
 espcially if you like the multiplayer vs multiplayer teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixbear
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? First it was glitchers in the walls... and EA fixed it. Other little things... EA 
 fixed it. However, there are other things in this game that make you want to rip out your eyeballs 
 out of frustration.
  
  How is it that when I duck around a corner for cover, my enemy and his magic bullet (cause it's 
 always one bullet) can find me around the corner
  and kill me? This tells me that buildings in the game aren't really there... hmmm, why do I run 
 for cover then?
  
  How is it that I can put 1-2 clips into an enemy's body, he takes one shot
  and I'm dead? This 
 has happened countless times to everyone i've played with... must be another magic bullet.
  
  EA, we play your game because frankly, currently, you have a monopoly on the situation since 
 no other shooter with the exception of Halo2 (and it's problems) can 24 people play together. Your 
 hockey has become a ridiculous front for what games shouldn't be and you've monopolized 
  another genre/sport by your 10 year football contracts... Everyone I play with has wondered one 
 question... Why do you suck so bad? - curiously frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRenegade4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Very good game, could b diffecult at times, online play is very good n cool. But the voice chat 
 online could b better. the graphics are top of the line very good. In single player campaign is 
 hard at times or very easy, some levels could take a very long time n others could take five mins. 
 But the hardest level is the last one that will take u a long time n itss very very duficult. This 
 is one of the best games on the xbox 360. The online levels are very good and good graphics the 
 gameplay is the best.
  Very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigga1230
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Evereyone said it would be an amazing game. I thought so too. Im a fan of the Battlefield seris 
 on the PC, but I had a feeling the developers weren't ready for the jump from the PC to consoles. 
 Campaign is short and has horrible storyline. Multiplayer is unrealistic and can get the best shooter 
 players frustrated. How is it unrealistic u ask? Let me just throw out a few examples. If a tank 
 were to hit a lightpost, would the tank be half way destroyed and the post stll standing? If your 
 aiming too close to someone, will the bullets fly right through them? Those are just a few examples 
 but to truley know you have to play it. If you don't believe me, I highly recommend you to rent 
 it first. If your a hardcore shooter fan, you wouldn't like this game.
  In all BF2MC is a game you shouldn't own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_X_Factor_69
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  If you're a gamer that loves shooters, and loves playing online this game is for you. Battlefield 
 2: Modern Combat is the perfect example of what an FPS is supposed to be. Straight action. With 
 an aresnal of modern vehicles and weapons this game will immerse you in the battles. The battles 
 are amazing, priceless, and highly addictive. Although the online is amazing this game does lack 
 in some areas. There is no split screen multiplayer, and no co-op. The campaign is good, but not 
 amazing but overall the experience is well worth the money. FPS lovers rejoice, this is a game 
 created especially for you. I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarauderBomber
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Modern Combat reeks of mediocretity. Everything from the poor pregraming to the repetitive 
 gameplay could have been eliminated from the game, if more time and effort had been put into making 
 this the game it has the potential to be.
  
  Battlefield isn't terrible, it's not even bad. It just could have been so much better. When reviewing 
 Battlefield, one must consider how massive a company EA is. They definately had the funds and employees 
 to have made this an amazing game. But the sad truth is that this is not an impressive game; not 
 in the least.
  
  Of course, BF: MC is the kind of game that is primarily for online multiplayer, but I still can't 
 avoid reviewing the single player as well as the multiplayer. The campaign mode of this game is 
 extremely repetitive, and quite boring. It has tha player completing varoius recon, assault, and 
 defense missions in order to advance in rank. The campaign is further hindered by boring, stupid 
 AI that seem like it came out of an NES game. The computer controlled enemies are predictable, 
 and dumb. If you walk around behind them, you can stand for as long as you want before shooting 
 them. Your teamates are not the least bit helpful, only moderately annoying. The only way to keep 
 them under control is to attempt to use the clunky "hot-swap" feature, which allows you to switch 
 from one soldier to the next in oreder to better control the battle zone.
  
  Examples of AI stupidity I experienced in my play inculded foot soldiers running in the opposite 
 direction of the objective, and two of my helicopters flying into each other. Several times during 
 a level, I had to restart the mission, becuase I fell into a hole or got trapped under a wall, 
 and was unable to move. Both the bad AI and the frequent glitched and bugs are examples of how 
 bad the programing in this game really is.
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, it is so broken. Teammates are hardly ever willing to cooperate, and 
 most of the time, people abuse vehicles and heavy explosives in order to get kills. It takes almost 
 no real skill to win in this game. Basically, whoever spawns near the vehicles will dominate the 
 multiplayer game. On a positive note, there are a ton of cool weapons in this game, but, sadly, 
 most people online stick to vehicles, rocket launchers, and snipers.
  
  Just about the only good thing about this game is it's graphics. It looks pretty good on the Xbox 
 360, and the animations are clean and smooth. Framerate is stable, and, in general, the game looks 
 good. Sound is rather poor, with CPU's that won't shut up. Once, I was playing a mission in the 
 campaign, and one of my teamates was in an armored tank. There was a single infantry soldier shooting 
 at him with an assault rifle, and he kept saying "We are pinned down, and taking heavy fire!" This 
 prompted me to mute my televisoin out of annoyance.
  
  All in all, Battlefield: Modern Combat can be described with one word: mediocre. It is a poorly 
 designed, poorly pregramed game that could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kctree
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The online multiplayer battles are full of intense action and strategy. You WILL experience moments 
 of awe as the battles unfold. You have to learn the tendencies of your opponent and adapt to survive. 
 This leaves room for creativity. I love playing this game with friends online. It's the first game 
 we've found that we can play for hours without a hint of boredom. Very seldom have I experienced 
 any type of lag, and that is something new to the 24 player class of games. Tanks, hellicoptors 
 and jeeps of all types are littered accross the maps. The vehicles are powerfull, but the ingenious 
 variety of landscapes and structure modeling allow soldiers on foot a real chance. The game ballance 
 is simply amazing. You can choose to be a regular assualt soldier.. or you can pull out an engineer, 
 sniper, special ops, or support class soldier. They all have different specializations without 
 one class completely overshadowing the others.
  
  The graphics are not exemplary. Especially for the 360. There are no awe inspiring moments caused 
 by graphics alone.
  
  The sound is above average. Sound effects play a vital part to a players survival. Ignoring a beeping 
 C4 or the beating of helocopter blades will simply get you killed.
  
  Battlefield 2 is definately worth buying. While the single player missions are tedious and unrewarding.. 
 multiplayer provides hours and hours of fresh intense action. You'll form intense bonds with your 
 allies and hatred of your enemy will come easily.
  
  I have to tilt this game to a 10 because gameplay and multiplayer action are the most important 
 elements in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tas443
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I recently have played the demo on 360 and i really have nothing bad to say about it. I love the 
 huge map in the demo mode and i love all the different stuff you can do. The battles are great 
 and i cant get enough of the explosions. I love the urban warfare in this game. Hiding and sneaking 
 into the other base is just phenomenal. This game is very unique from the others out in the market: 
 Realistic guns, drive a plethora amount of vehicles, team action and much much more. I heard bad 
 things about single player, but im gonna go buy this game just for the online play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Overall I'd say this game was just barely worth the sixty dolar price tag. I for one found the 
 single player to be alot more rewarding than others found it. But the game really shines in Multiplayer. 
 
  
  I'll start off with the singleplayer. I couldn't really find much of a story line in this, they're 
 just little mission briefings that give you a pretty good excuse to go and blow stuff up. Since 
 the game switches you between different countries you get different news reports on what just happened. 
 So say you just blew up a tanker ship filled with enemy weapons. Well, when you're the Chinese 
 it will talk about how the Americans just sank a defenseless supply boat. Yeah.. riiigghtttt! It's 
 really cool how you see how propaganda is used in war time, I thought it was awesome. Like I said 
 before, the no story line thing, it doesn't really matter, all that does matter is that you're 
 having fun with the game, and you are. They manage to strike the perfect balance in gameplay where 
 you can run and gun if you would like, but if you get too out of hand you can get mowed down in 
 a few seconds. Your mainly going to want to find yourself, moving quickly and effectively, and 
 when you see a group of enemy soldiers, you will have the power to jump out and take then down 
 without getting popped in the face and falling to the ground in .2 milliseconds. Another great 
 thing is of course, hotswapping, it means that when you do die, the game isn't over! It just moves 
 you to another team mate, an option that should be in alot of other games. Also hot swapping during 
 combat is cool and is implemented very well in some missions. It's also just good if you're running 
 around as an assault soldier and all of a sudden a big tank jumps out into the street! Well no 
 problem, just switch over to your engineer, pull out your rocket launcher and bam! No more tank. 
 It's very cool. 
  
  I also read that some people were dissapointed with the sounds of the guns. Yeah, no problem for 
 me and that is generally a very big area for me. The music was also very cool, getting upbeat and 
 fast when you engage in a fight with an enemy soldier. It made the game alot better actually, in 
 a weird way haha. Also I found the AI to be satisfyingly difficult, they will pin you down with 
 covering fire, use smoke grenades, throw grenades at appropriate times, use the appropriate weapons, 
 etc. Sometimes their aiming with the rocket launcher is a little off but not much to complain about.
 
  
  And yes, the graphics were lacking in this game, the textures weren't very sharp, and compared 
 to say Perfect Dark or Call of Duty they really shouldn't impress you. Yes the whole thing with 
 the bullet casings gathering on the ground is pretty cool, I'll give you that. The gun models are 
 also nicely detailed. One thing actually that I found made this game really good, was the way holes 
 in the wall, actually looked like holes in the wall. Not just little black snow flakes. Hah, when 
 I played the Perfect Dark demo I was seriously dissapointed when that's what it looked like when 
 I shot the wall hahaha. I might be stupid, but it was really, really cool to look at a wall and 
 see all these holes that actually look like, well, holes. 
  
  And then yes, multiplayer, the games shining point. Games were easy to find and they always had 
 alot of players in them. They were fast paced and you don't need to play the game for three weeks 
 to get good, you can jump in and start getting kills. Some hard core players might complain about 
 that since they've like, written down formulas for bullet speed so they can snipe a player that 
 just ramped off a building in his humvee, but hey, if you wanna get pissed about it, go ahead. 
 It's a noob friendly game, but if you want to dominate rounds, you will have to put time into it.
 
  
  So yes, you should buy this game, the campaign is long, and despite the lack of a storyline it 
 is still satisfying to play through. Multiplayer is where the game really shines, of course as 
 in all Multiplayer FPS's there are only two or three maps really worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta_BITR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game has its ups and downs, but the multiplayer in the game is so good that it makes up for 
 almost anything that was wrong with the game. The multiplayer features a highly immersive ranking 
 system that rewards you for almost everything that you do, including the achievements. While there 
 is only two modes in the multiplayer, (CTF and Conquest) the battles are so big and chaotic that 
 you feel as if you're playing a different game each time you enter the Battlefield. The game comes 
 with the 3 bonus maps that the regular X Box version of the game got last year, along with the 
 vehicles that were added in that expansion also. All of the levels (single player and multiplayer) 
 feature a complete graphics overhaul and it truly looks like a next-gen game. The classes and weapons 
 remain the same as in the previous BF2: MC games. The controls do take a bit to get used to, but 
 after you play a game or two online you either take to it right away, or die trying. After playing 
 those few games, you'll come to realize that the controls are very fluid and can allow for split-second 
 weapon changes that can turn the tide of a firefight. I will admit that the single-player is not 
 the best in the world and should have been redone for the 360, but it is still decent in its own 
 right. With the possibility for EA to make new maps and vehciles for the game, it truly deserves 
 the score that I gave it. (If you liked this review, be sure to recommend it. Thanks for reading!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dur353
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  buy this game its worth your while live is always fun never gets old. single player is ok but only 
 buy this game if your looking for a good xbox live game. because the single player is really short 
 and not as good as some other games but the live makes up for it. this game is amazing and addictive. 
 it takes a while to learn how to drive the helicopters and vehicles so you need some time to get 
 good at it but the better you get the more fun it gets. i would highly recomend this game the clan 
 matches are great and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4ever2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I had been playing Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 2 on PC, while playing BF Modern Combat first 
 on the PS2 and now on the 360.
  Modern Combat isn't that bad and even more fun and action than the original on the PC which had 
 bigger maps, more vehicles and being more realistic and less action pace.
  Somehow the PS2 had no chat problems during the matches while the 360 version is a shame. Gameplay 
 is still great and the graphics are the best of any Battlefield game to date! BGM and sound effects 
 are good but the sound problems are a letdown!
  Could be a great game, but somehow only a good one because EA has messed up with the server problems 
 and chat problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell26
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Battlefeld 2, although having a campaign mode, is definately a game to play online. You can drive 
 any veichle you want, go any where you want (within the battlefield) and it is just like the computer 
 version. The campaign mode has adopted the same style as all the other FPS'. You have set missions. 
 And although you have more freedom to get to the places you need to get to, It is still the boring 
 old "do this or you lose the mission".
  
  What ever happened to capture the bases and lose tokens if you die. That is what made battlefield 
 on the PC different from everything else. It was because of that that Battlefield 1942 and vietnam 
 were such successes.
  
  But now for the good things. You can get in and out of veichles and helicopters when ever you want 
 to, and you can drive them. So already a difference from the likes of Call of Duty, but similar 
 to Halo. Also there is a new 'Hotswap' feature which allows you swap to any other AI who is either 
 in a better position than you or is nearer to the objective.
  
  Buy this game if you have Xbox live, but think about it if you dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is the worst game I have played on the Xbox 360. I 
 have never had an experience worse than this game. If I could, Id just **** about the game for 
 30 minutes, but instead Ill actually give you reasons why you should avoid the abomination of 
 an FPS. Ok, so how does the game play? Turns out that it controls and plays much like any other 
 average FPS in the genre. You can zoom in on weapons that have a scope and ones that dont, well 
 dont zoom in. However, the aiming and shooting doesnt make much sense and aiming doesnt really 
 work either. I mean, sure, you can zoom in, but its just as hard to hit them if your not zoomed 
 in. Also, the vehicle combat has become more of a hassle than an enjoyment. The controls are clunky 
 and cause for awkward movements that really slow you down and leave you very vulnerable. So the 
 game play does fail to impress compared to the PC version and console shooters alike, but thats 
 not Battlefields main problem. The graphics have been updated for its next-gen debut and I admit 
 that they are nice. The explosions have a neat warping effect and the character models look great. 
 The environments are a bit plain, but nice looking nonetheless. The game also has some good sound 
 effects. You can hear the bullet casings hit the ground and explosions and shots sound powerful. 
 The game also has an expansive online multiplayer; however, if youre like me, you tend to play 
 more for the single player experience. This is where the game fails miserably. For starters, your 
 teammates have terrible AI. You rarely see them shooting at enemies and basically do nothing at 
 all. All your teammates are there for is to switch to them once you die via the new hot swapping 
 feature. Thats it, they dont shoot or help you. This is especially annoying when you are forced 
 to pilot a vehicle and your fellow teammates just sit on the guns doing nothing, offering up an 
 occasional burst of fire that misses the enemy. This adds to the games insanely difficult campaign. 
 I must say that I havent gotten this mad at a game in quite sometime. The game offers some almost 
 impossible missions that are split between Chinese and NATO forces in a battle for some reason 
 or another. You are given task of defending areas or assaulting areas with a very limited number 
 of reinforcements or a very short period of time. And seeing as your teammates are so brain dead, 
 most of them die while you are playing as someone which basically eliminates your reinforcements. 
 Its also worth mentioning that while the enemy AI isnt particularly smart, they are very quick 
 and accurate. Combine this with the missions very poor level design (which will have about a battalion 
 of enemies all sitting on their personal mounted machine gun) causes for nothing more than you 
 taking a soldier and repeatedly throwing them into enemy forces until you somehow complete the 
 mission or get mad and turn the game off. The latter seems to happen more often. If thats not 
 bad enough, the enemies actually just appear in certain places. I believe they respawn infinitely, 
 even if you take the point at which they have been respawning. Throw in a few missions in which 
 you only have one helicopter that cant get destroyed and you have yourself terrible experience. 
 Attempting the same missions over and over and constantly getting shredded by the enemys mounted 
 machine guns lends itself to a forgettable experience that should be avoided if all possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattheworeilly
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent 1st person shooter. The graphics are great and the gameplay is even better. 
 It is more realistic than some games like call of duty 2 which makes online play a lot more exciting. 
 The campaigne mode is alot of fun but the online play blows it away. There are some many ways to 
 blow away then enemy like choppers, tanks, humvees, 50cals, artillery strikes, land mines, c4 charges 
 and many other things of that nature. This is my favorite war game i have ever played, alought 
 it takes a little bit of time to learn things like flying choppers and what some weapons do overall 
 this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincolnhoole
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Online- The online supports a good amount of people and there are enough maps online to last you 
 a while. One really nice touch in this game is the level detail on characters and such, when you 
 see bullet holes in the walls and 3 very nice looking soldiers attacking it makes you say, Wow!. 
 The amount of vehicles there are in this game rock too, you can fly helicopters, drive tanks, or 
 (in a couple maps) drive boats. You can play conquest which involves capturing strategic points 
 on the map to drain the opponents tickets or you can play CTF. In CTF you play on a smaller scale 
 of a map and simply try and capture the enemies flag, in these matches you dont get to use helicopters 
 or tanks but rather only fast attack vehicles like buggies. Online is definitely the main reason 
 to purchase this game.
  
  Single Player- Ah single player, the thing that almost was. In the single player campaign players 
 follow the U. S., N. A. T. O., and China in their fight for control of the upper-middle eastern country 
 of Kazakhstan. The story here is forgettable which is a bummer and there are a total of 19 missions. 
 I felt like EA almost got down the single player good, there are fun challenges you unlock such 
 as the Hand Grenade Challenge in which you practice throwing grenades into large groups of people 
 and races where you race military vehicles around a track. In the single player game you go up 
 in rank by getting medals and stars for completing missions well and the more you go up the more 
 you unlock in your challenges and more of the weapons become available for use. Eventually you 
 get weapon bonuses like increased ammo and zoom. Also the higher rank you are the better your character 
 becomes, you get stronger armor and higher average damage etc. There is also a multiplier in single 
 player that goes up the more you kill without dieing and slowly turns you into a killing machine 
 with x3 health, damage, speed and so on. Those are the good points of single player the bad points 
 of single player are that there is horrible voice acting, and I mean horrible, it is funny at first 
 but quickly becomes annoying. Some of the end missions are also unfair, especially the last N. A. T. O. 
 mission. There is a feeling you get when playing that makes you feel like it is unfinished. So 
 in the single player isnt bad but DOES need improvements.
  
  Achievements - Well the achievements in this game are hard to get. The single player ones just 
 take time and mission replay to get. The online ones are very hard; try getting 4 knife kills without 
 dieing online! The online ones will torment you unless you have 2 friends who can help you get 
 them. So if youre an achievement person that only tries to get them you might want to avoid this 
 game. 
  
  End Results- Not a bad game just a game in need of some major improvements thats all. Get it but 
 dont be surprising if it isnt everything you were expecting. A little patch or some DLC would 
 do wonders for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jsuave23
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is my second review for an Ea game and let me just say I can't believe what I see. Here you 
 have a great series but just rushed the title. There are so many nasty things about the game I can't 
 even explain. First the gameplay is slow and doesnt really handle well. Second earning medals are 
 online are impossible because your constantly dieing from tanks or hellicopters that just sit at 
 your respawn area and kill you. Whoever gets the first shot wins type gameplay. If you get shot 
 first there is hardly a chance to run to cover because your player kind of freezes while he is 
 getting wasted. Weapons are limited to about 12.. My overall advice wait for Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotapplepie
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat
  
  The Battlefield series started with Battlefield 1942 on the PC and followed with Battlefield: Vietnam, 
 and eventually Battlefield 2. The Battlefield series is very popular with PC players and has a 
 strong online following with many people still playing today. In 2004 EA and Digital Illusions 
 decided to make Battlefield 2 Modern Combat for the Xbox and PS2, which came out with lukewarm 
 reviews but a strong online community. The two teams decided to team up again and port Battlefield 
 2 Modern Combat, which improved the graphics and other minor changes but still suffers the same 
 problems that the Xbox and PS2 versions suffered. 
  
  Story
  The single player story is a poorly executed story but still has a small plot inside the mess. 
 While the premise of the story is has great potential but the execution in the game makes the story 
 fail. The plot is goes like this; you play as a solider in both the NATO and Chinese army. Before 
 each mission a small TV screen appears on the gamers TV screen which shows the news and what is 
 going on with the war. After the TV is done a 3-D grid, type thing, shows up and a general, and 
 least tries, to brief you on your oncoming mission. Before the mission starts a lengthy load screen 
 appears and another solider gives the player the mission objectives while the loading screen goes 
 on. A series of events occurs including, the destroying of a bridge, an oil plant being annihilated, 
 ground being gained back, and the stopping of nuclear missiles all occur in the story. It is slightly 
 interesting to see and hear 2 different perspectives on the story but the story is presented in 
 a weird and awkward way, which ultimately leads to a sloppy and uninteresting single player. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay part of Battlefield 2 MC is where the game shines and sucks. The single player portion 
 of BF2MC has the exact same control and graphics as the multiplayer but some how the game manages 
 to slow down to a bore with the single player. First off the single player is way too hard giving 
 you almost impossible objectives to complete without having 10 lucky charms around you. The single 
 player is also very unbalanced with some levels that the gamer can blow through with no problem 
 at all while other levels some gamers will want to pull the disk out and break it in 1000 little 
 bite size pieces. In the single player lets you play as all four types of soldiers (Assault, Special 
 Ops, Medic, and Mechanic) but there are only one or two types of soldiers per level. In multiplayer 
 you have a choice of each class before spawning. The assault class has the assault rifles, the 
 special ops have an smg, the medic has a shotgun and rocket launcher, and the mechanic has a huge 
 machine gun. In single player not all the guns are unlocked and the only way to unlock them is 
 to play the horrid single player. If the single player gets boring, which it will, there are challenges 
 to play through. There are many types of challenges to play thorough from racing to hot swap challenges. 
 The challenges have a mission rating and the higher the rating the better chance you have to upgrade 
 a gun. The multiplayer portion of BF2MC is where the games shines beyond belief. The multiplayer 
 consists of two teams either playing to try to control different areas on a map in conquest mode 
 or try to capture and return the flag in CTF. As stated earlier there is a choice between two teams 
 and 4 different classes of soldiers before spawning. There are at least 6 areas on each map that 
 can be captured and turned into bases. Additional to these areas there are the two team's home 
 bases that cannot be captured on most maps. The online play can hold up to 24 people and all the 
 matches I played, no lag was detected. Overall the stupendous multiplayer more than makes up for 
 the lackluster single player. 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is a great part of the game but doesnt add enough 
 visual flair to the mix to make much of an impact on gamers. This is why ports of games must be 
 done better or there is something to compare the game to. The graphics have been somewhat improved 
 from an already good-looking Xbox game. There have been a few drastic lighting changes on some 
 multiplayer and single player maps that are both hit and miss. When a solider is in a building 
 and there is an open doorway a very visually appealing light shines into the room, which adds to 
 realism. While at other times when a solider exits a building the light partially blinds the solider 
 so they are more vulnerable to enemy fire. The gun models have also underwent a redesign that makes 
 them more appealing and more badass. The AI in single player is very uneven straying on the verge 
 of invincible to the brink of terrible. Closer to the final single player levels the developer 
 seemed to push the AI to the extremes making them deadeye shots. The character models are very 
 last gen with bad animation and low pixels on them. Overall the graphics are solid for the game 
 but still highly resemble the games last gen brother. 
  
  Sound
  The sound in Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is the low point of the game by far. There are a limited 
 amount of sounds from soldiers, guns, and vehicles. There are different sounds for each weapon 
 but the SMG sounds like a quiet version of the assault rifle, and the machine gun sounds like a 
 quieter version of the mounted machine gun. The ally voice-overs are very under whelming and on 
 the edge of being cheesy. There is also a repetitive factor to the games voice-overs. While in 
 combat allied troops repeat the same saying over and over which leads to a world of annoying. The 
 vehicle sounds all have a different sound to them but the sounds are very repetitive. No matter 
 what surface you are driving on the vehicle makes the same noise, and that can get pretty tedious. 
 Overall the sound isnt terrible but it sure isnt good. 
  
  Controls
  The controls in Battlefield 2 Modern Combat are quick and responsive but some of the button placement 
 is tedious. The two thumb sticks provide as the normal look and move controls. The most bothersome 
 button placement is the change weapon button that is placed on the right button, which opens the 
 weapon select menu that makes you, use your left thumb to change the weapon. In the heat of the 
 battle, when a weapon change is necessary, this button placement makes a gamer want to scream. 
 The rest of the controls work very well with the Xbox 360 game pad and provide for a good experience. 
 
  
  Replay Value
  The replay value of Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is average because of the lackluster single player. 
 The single player will only last around 5 hours and any sane gamer will not want to come back to 
 it. The multiplayer is where the game really earns its value. The multiplayer is incredibly addicting 
 and will last for many months. The online community of the game is still very strong and will provide 
 for many hours of fun multiplayer action. 
  
  Conclusion
  In conclusion Battlefield 2 Modern Combat for the Xbox 360 will provide for hours upon hours of 
 entertainment from the amassing Xbox Live Multiplayer but will only provide frustration with the 
 bad single player. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseIce
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  I'm kinda flip-floping on this game. I love FPS and all but this game is not one to really love. 
 The Single player is great at times and at others very frustrating. Its great that you can switch 
 from one guy to another but when theres no one left you have to do it all over. I thnk the AI for 
 you teammate should have been a little more enchanced.
  
  For the Multiplayer I love the clan support and live. But what happened to the local play? I mean 
 what FPS doesnt have a multiplayer with local play one it. I would love to play with my family 
 members who love war games like this one but there no local multiplayer.
  
  The acheivements arent that hard to get but they arent easy either. Getting 10 kills without dying 
 for any of the online medels are proving to be a pain. Especially the one where you have to take 
 out 4 guys with a knife. The only was i see ppl actually get most of these medal is if they somehow 
 get a whole bunch of friends together and they all take turn unlock the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  The Champaign part of the game is very hard and will take a while to get use to. I don't really 
 like games like that, become to hard and not enjoyable. 
  
  The Online Multiplayer is really fun, having quite a few people come online and shoot like crazy. 
 A lot of different location to shoot, and lots of vehicle to drive to ur desire spot in the area. 
 
  
  The Achievements in this game is so stupid, i mean, kill 30 people online without being killed. 
 Thats kinda hard having more than 16 players online shooting and repair 5 different vehicles in 
 online and offline gaming. Man i can go all day about the achievements but i won't bother, u get 
 the idea. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 wasnt what i expected it to be IT WAS WORSE!!! Many things went wrong in this game 
 and most things were well... pretty stupid, but the biggest pain was the online play! Heres an example 
 lets say your playing a match like I was and some guy asked so who's gotten more than 3 kills already 
 and you say "I did" and they dont hear you there gonna think Wow that guy really sucks and the 
 bad part is that the online play is supposed to be one of the best parts of the game! Then 3 weeks 
 later I figured out that you have to hold down the X button to talk!! To bad I had aleady traded 
 it in. Another problem I encoutered was the weapons heres another example. On the first mission it 
 took you 25 minutes to get past it well at the end of the mission you see you collected 3 guns 
 (im not actually sure if thats how many you get) and those 3 guns are the exact ones you would 
 have needed to complete the mission faster that'll get you thinking WTF! was going on!
  
  On the goodside missions are sometimes short and fun also, you can also Hot-Swap which is where 
 you can switch positions with any solider on your squad lets say your a sniper and your gun isnt 
 fit for destroying soliders in close combat so all you have to do is swap with a machine gunner 
 and shoot 'em up and there gone. Well lets rap it up I give Battlefield 2: Modern Combat 6.7 snipers 
 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pederw
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
 FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  I love battlefield 2 for the computer but mine cannot run it so when i heard that B2 MC was comming 
 to 360 i was excited but it was just the same thing as the orginal on the sonsole. The graphics 
 look nicer for the enviroments and weapons but the people dont look real and their is not any depth 
 to the story line. the game gets very repetitive and some of the levels make you into a raging 
 lunitic because you just cant beat it.. The sound effects do not sound like the real guns. The 
 physics in the game are terrible. The best part of the game is its multiplayer and even that is 
 flawed. The achievements are difficult to earn and take a while to get. It is fun to get more rank 
 the better you do but after not playing it for a while you cannot start playing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BthSdesOfTheGun
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Having waited so long for the xbox version of Battlefield 2 to come out, and when I bought it i 
 loved every minute of the multi-player... then to find out that EA games is making one for the 
 360, was a dream come true for me... Until I actually bought the game, turns out that Battlefield 
 2: Modern Combat on the xbox 360... exactly the same as it was on the xbox... only with a fresh 
 new coat of paint, and new-er looking weapons. The sound, and Graphics are to die for, but yet... 
 the gameplay seems oddly disappointing. The controls are completely different from every other 
 FPS that i have ever played, for example, the left bumper is to jump? and "L" is to crouch? makes 
 no sense to me... BF2: MC is highly addictive for the first few days, then you find out... that there 
 is many glitches and bugs in the game, and that you basically play the same thing over and over 
 (there isn't much variety.) That is my review of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat for the xbox 360... 
 i hope you liked it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat was a successful game on the Xbox and PS2 when it came out about a 
 year ago. Well, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat makes its way to the Xbox 360, and proves itself the 
 worthy game for a next-gen system.
  
  The gameplay in Battlefield is pretty good. It, for one thing, is very immersive and you will be 
 close to feeling like you're actually there. The singleplayer campaign in the game is okay, there 
 are 20 or so missions and challenges, each one can range from being easy to frustratingly difficult, 
 like one where you have to disarm to nuclear missiles by raiding their silos guarded each by 15 
 or so guys with heavy machineguns all in 10 minutes, and once your good enough to figure out how 
 to beat that one, then you get another timer telling you to raid their huge bunker guarded by massive 
 amounts of soldiers and tanks. The multiplayer makes the singleplayer very easy to forget though, 
 there are tons of maps which support up to 24 players via Xbox Live. While the game still lacks 
 different gameplay modes (as all Battlefield games do) the basic Conquest mode pits you against 
 your enemies as you try to take over strategic points and bases across a pretty big map and once 
 you've captured them all, kill your opponent until all of their points go away. To assist you with 
 this, there are plenty of guns, vehicles and different classes each with their own special abilities, 
 ranging from the Engineer, who can repair vehicles, but also can destroy them thanks to his bazooka 
 and shotgun, to the Support, who can heal allies and use his heavy machine gun for suppressing 
 fire. My problem (which is a pretty big one) is that if an enemy sees you first, you're pretty 
 much dead. Once your enemy starts shooting at you, theres no way you can get an advantage and kill 
 him after that, there's no sprint button like in Battlefield 2 on the PC, and in general players 
 just need a little bit more health.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Wonderfully crafted enviornments ranging from the snowy country-side, 
 to a sunny ocean with an oil rig standing in the middle of it. Great character/ weapon/ vehicle 
 models with tons of detail, and hard work put into them. Awesome use of bump-mapping as well. Awesome 
 graphics.
  
  The sound in Battlefield is good as well. You will hear battlechatter going on between allies an 
 enemies, pointing out when a base has been taken over, or if they need reinforcements, etc. All 
 the weapons and vehicles sound different, though their sounds are repeated. A lot. But still, great 
 sound.
  
  One can play this game for a long time. From the pretty long singleplayer to the un-ending fun 
 of the multiplayer, Battlefield Modern Combat will keep you playing for a while.
  
  Battlefield is a great game, but I had a huge problem with the gameplay (one that made me take 
 off 2 points keeping it from a 10) and a few minor problems in some other departments. But all 
 in all Battlefield is a good game, and a good addition to your Xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat brings a new twist to squad based tactics. Pressing X allows you to 
 change control to the character you are targeting, bringing new strategies to an FPS game.
  
  That being said, BF2: MC does not have a whole lot more to offer as an FPS. It uses the same 
 basic controls, the same basic characters, and not a whole lot of unique weapons or vehicles. It 
 really is just a clever design for a shooter, but that does not mean it is a bad game.
  
  On the contrary, BF2: MC is a brilliant, innovative game that makes new use of the same old, familiar 
 techs. You aim, fire, spawn into your teammate, aim again, fire again, and spawn again in a new 
 teammate. This continues in rapid succession, and you don't really have a lot of time for thinking, 
 making it all the better.
  
  However, it is also a very hard FPS. Much more difficult than the Halos, much more difficult than 
 other Battlefield games. It also has an enticing point system that keeps you playing the same missions 
 to try to get the most experience from any given mission, much like an RPG. The more points you 
 have, the more weapons are available, and the better those weapons are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohican227
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game (Battlefield 2 Modern Combat) is an okay game. It's not like it stinks or anything. The 
 first 9 or 10 levels are easier than the rest of the levels. But when you reach that 11th or 12th 
 level you definitely have to know what you are doing. It is a little confusing but a very fun game 
 overall with many weapons to choose from. Very modern day. Possibly in the future. You should probably 
 rent this game first just to make sure you like it. But if you fail the level keep trying it, you'll 
 get it soon! Just learn the controls and you will probably beat the level on the 3rd or 4th try 
 maybe even the 2nd if you're lucky! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBA_MavericK
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Now I don't know how many of you played the ps2 or xbox BF2MC, but it was one helluva game. Although 
 the graphics aren't nearly as pretty and the sounds are dull, the gameplay was superb. This beautiful, 
 but rushed, port falls short in that category. 
  The single player aspect of BF2MC was horrible enough on the ps2/xbox game. Although hotswapping 
 is a really cool idea, the few moments of brilliance are destroyed by all of the countless hours 
 of frustration. The first missions are fairly easily, but don't be fooled, you can fail at any 
 time, almost out of nowhere. It's the latter missions that really start to get you frustrated. 
 The AI is nowhere near excellent, but they all seem to know exactly where you are and are lethal 
 with a 50cal. On the last mission, "Flying the Flag", you get shot at, nonstop. They always hit. 
 Even if you are a mile away, they don't care. They can magically see miraculous distances on an 
 unscoped turret. Wanna know why? Because the idiots at DICE concentrated so much on graphics that 
 they forgot to add the "distance factor" into enemy AI. If you see a cannon fodder wander near 
 an unmanned 50cal, RUN. If you don't, he will tear you up. Even so, there's nowhere to hide. If 
 he can see you, even a little bit, he will drop your health, just like that. (snaps finger) You 
 will have to litterally repeat the latter missions 20 times before you can complete them. It had 
 me screaming bullpoop countless times. There are moments when you, as an engineer, come face to 
 face with another shotgun-wielding engineer. Point-blank range, fire, waddyaknow, he's not dead, 
 and guess what... you are. You turn a corner, and he's already hit you before you can even see him. 
 Helicopters spawn out of nowhere and home in on you. Another problem is the voice acting. Charlie 
 Chan blabbering "KIll the enemy", "Advance on this position" "Roaaarrr" doesn't help the frustation, 
 and it will only lead you to more frustration. Somewhere in between the racist voices and retarded 
 allied AI I realized that I was only playing this for Achievements. It wasn't gonna help me. Maybe 
 help me get an ulcer. So i stopped. Although some of last year's spawning problems have been moderatley 
 fixed, new, bigger problems have appeared. 
  Now that you've somehow managed to get past the single-player, on to multiplayer. This is where 
 the game really shined last year, when it came out on ps2/xbox 1. This game, however, manages to 
 screw that up too. Three letters: L-A-G. This game has the most horrible lag that I have experienced 
 on any Xbox 360 game to date. And yes, I have played Far Cry: Predator. At times, I would teleport 
 across the map. You think, "Teleportation isn't bad. It could help you." WRONG. Not the way it 
 does in this game. It's not instant. You move through it at regular speed. Only you can't control 
 it. So im flying a helicopter, right? Yes, and then, out of nowhere, i teleport into an oil rig 
 on the other side of the map. Im shooting this guy on foot, and WTF, how did i end up in this room? 
 That's not the only bad news. Here's some more: DROPPED GAMES. It used to be only once every 3534543 
 games, but now it is frequent. This is frustrating because, on countless occasions, i would be 
 one kill away from a medal. The BAM! "You have lost connection to the game server." "This server 
 is no longer available." And the last thing, which is also bad for your 360 console, is CRASHES. 
 It would happen out of nowhere, and this is the only game that it occurs on. It just FREEZES. You 
 can't do anything, so you have to pull the plug. I have played 450+ hours on ps2 BF2MC. Cherished 
 every one of them. Now I am up to 100+ on 360. Not the best hours. 
  The redeeming part, however, is that the multiplayer is extremely fun. If you can find the right 
 server+people, the you may never stop playing. But you can get a better experience for $30 less. 
 Only better thing about this is that it has purdy graphics. All in all, if you are looking for 
 an ulcer with some fun thrown in, you've come to the right place. There is not a lot of effort 
 in controlling the lag/glitches, so all in all, this is a rushed port. Approach at your own risk. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of the PC version of Battlefield 2 I wasn't really excited about the Xbox 360 version 
 for one reason: I can't use my mouse and keyboard. I still gave this game a chance, and all I can 
 say is WOW. I love it. The controls are a bit more difficult than the PC version, but killing enemies 
 is easier. Since you don't have that fine control you would have with a mouse you don't really 
 have to be dead on with the aim in this game.
  
  Gameplay Graphics are perfect. Sound was a bit annoying. I dont really want to hear a language 
 I dont understand announcing a flag was captured. This should by default be in english. The volume 
 is also a bit too loud, i had to change the settings to get it a bit quieter. 
  
  All in all, this game is great, and if you have the PC version this is still worth the purchase. 
 Go out and get this game tonight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a good army game at best:
  Good graphics and realisitic battle sounds ... and that's basically it. B2: MC feels slow and sluggish 
 to play, you are in the battlefield for 5 seconds then you die (it is so very difficult! Especially 
 the mission where you have to recon 5 areas in a helicopter) , no variety of missions, good explosions 
 (but lackluster presentation and large explosions only featured 4 or 5 times throughout the game) , 
 the game isn't worth 50 coins unless you have live.
  Though a good descent modern army game, it's better for PC. Alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisticuffs
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought this because one of my long time xbox online buddies finally got his 360 and played this 
 all the time. I missed battleing it out with him and a few others so I picked this game up. I wanted 
 so much to like it but this game makes me CURSE and whine constantly. And while I may or may not 
 whine in real life I usualy do not find myself cursing. The graphics are passable if this was for 
 the Xbox and not the 360. I personally hate the feel of the game and cannot get used to it. The 
 online is totally unbalanced. God help you if you are down to one spawn and have an enemy helicopter 
 on you. In fact a heli in the hands of someone who knows how to use it is UNBEATABLE. This game 
 could have been good but it totally struck out for me. I suggest you rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game dishonors the Battle Field Title. Really it shouldn't even be called a Battlefield.
 
  No more intense, dramatic battles for territory! Here your just dropped in to a L. Z. and told 
 to kill a bunch of Asians in a certain area without dying. Literally. Yor consticted to what classes 
 your allies are around you, because the only way to switch is by warping into them. Stupid, and 
 their's no death tickets. Just what you have, and what they have, which is like 7 to 945. Luckily, 
 if you know how to strafe, you can just mow their stupid bums down.
  So yeah... thats about it....... yep.... its a stinker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skatester57
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  What makes me mad about this game is that it is real fun, but it could have been so much better. 
 The games main attraction is its multiplayer, and I don't have XBOX Live so I couldn't play it. 
 I only played the single player mode so thats what this review is based on. If you liked the PC 
 version you will be very dissapointed as it is not even similar. The games vehicle control is horrible. 
 You can hardly even fly the helicopters. The games graphicis are pretty good and the added effects 
 of shells and realistic bullet holes doesn't hurt. But they can sometimes look a little weird. 
 The AI is comepletley stupid they hardly even try to kill you. Another graphical problem is the 
 physics in the game aren't to good. One cool thing about the single player is the hotswapping feature 
 which enables you to switch between characters quickly. The mission variety is pretty cool most 
 of the time. Overall the game is ok but you'd be fine if you just rented it don't waste $60.00. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is all about ONLINE play. The single player is fun, but 
 nothing like what other games can offer in today's market, so honestly don't even bother. If you 
 want an awsome experience, go rent this games and join in a LIVE game at the map Bridge too Far 
 with 18 or more players. It'll get your heart beting and your palms sweating. This game is ridiculously 
 tacital and fun. If you get a group of buddies going, you can all have fun just plain out shooting 
 down choppers. But when you get a serious clan going, it's all about the tactics. I've never been 
 so immersed in a FPS game in my life. You'll get a serious kick out of this game. You have about 
 50+ weapons to choose from, and around 30+ vehicles. Ranging from basic pistols, to AA Missile 
 launchers, to Humvees, to Apache's. This is a must play title at least. So go out and pick this 
 up if you can, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theenglishboy75
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  battlefield 2 modern combat xbox 360 is a first person shooter with a differnce... hot swapping 
 although its only avalable in single player it can be really fun to swicth from assult to support 
 to tank to chooper 
  
  multiplayer there are quite a few maps in multiplayer (cant remember the names) and only 2 game 
 modes ''capture the flag'' and the classic battlefield mode ''conquest'' there are 4 playable armies 
 in game each with different armoments and vehicles the armies are ''united states army'' ''china'' 
 ''eurpe'' and ''middle eastern forces'' thats all i can say i hope u have enjoyed my review c ya 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, You got your 360. But you have to buy a game. You got Xbox Live and only $60 (Euro) ? And 
 1 controller? Buy Battlefield 2 Modern Combat. 
  
  As soon you are online you can join or make a server. In that server you can pick a Army most times 
 it would be USA, China or MEC, After that you can pick your class all of them have there +'s and 
 -'s.
  Right now on the time of writing this is the BEST ONLINE game. 
  24 players online, Many vehicles on the ground in the air and on sea in 1 word: Great. First time 
 it's pretty hard to learn atleast for the people who didn't played it on the Xbox, You can drive 
 vehicles or get on a second seat like a 50. cal a railgun or just a seat, There are 16 maps and 
 2 game modes. CTF it stands for itselfs everybody know it from Halo or a other FPS game. And you 
 got Conquest the objective with this mode is; To take all the flags and keep the enemy away. It's 
 a great mode and you have to use everything that you can use, Now something else, My top 5 maps.
 
  
  1# The Nest, This is a Big map with many vehicles you can hold up the enemy tanks by putting up 
 there bridge, Snipers can snipe on the mountains but they can't see the hole map. Helicopters are 
 great and very handfull on this map because of that you got 4 helicopters. This is the best map 
 right now.
  
  2# Missile Crisis, This is a snow map with the Chinese and European side. A great thing about this 
 map is that the Chinese side have to keep the European side away of the flags, The EU has to attack 
 the Chinese and try to open the gate so the tanks can get in. Once the EU is in they can rule!
 
  
  3# Full Frontal, A small urban map but it's a great map with great fights, 3 Flags all the flags 
 a closed in by containers or something else. For a real fight you have to play this map.
  
  4#Coldfront, Now the rolls are turned the EU has to defend and the Chinese have to atack, A great 
 thing is that the EU has bunkers with 50. cal's in it and grenade guns, If you like to play a big 
 map try this one!
  
  5# Dammage, This is a great water map and you have to use the water vehicles. It's not a very big 
 map but it is a great map if you realy wanna use boats and stuff.
  
  Well, Right now I don't no what to write only this: Buy BF2MC if you have Xbox Live, And you have 
 a replay of 100+ hours with great maps, Cool vehicles and more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  I have played (and loved) the PC version for a while now. It's great, and although the console 
 version of Battlefield is enjoyable, it is a streamlined experience with less emphasis on teamwork. 
 This isn't so bad though... it's just a different vibe on the consoles.
  
  I enjoy some of the changes. The ability for support and sniper classes to call in bombardment 
 are a welcome addition, and the graphics are silky smooth with rich 5.1 sounds and all around impressive 
 presentation. This is one game that really handles achievemnets well... they seem to strike a good 
 balance of being difficult yet attainable. While some of the levels are dull, most of them are 
 fairly interesting and present players with some entertaining challenges. It's a pretty game overall. 
 I wish people didn't always want to play the Backstab map over and over, but that's the community's 
 issue, not the games.
  
  The only real problem I have with the game as that it inherently supports team play, but nobody 
 really works together in a game. I know that this is once again more of an issue with the community, 
 but still it's obnoxious. You'll play entire matches without hearing a single team mate say anything 
 at all. Requests for rides/backup are typically met with cold indifference. It's unusual, because 
 the PC players don't all have mics, but those that do seem to use their mics to coordinate attacks 
 more, resulting in a richer experience. The game just feels streamlined... much of the depth is 
 missing, but then again it is easier to Rambo your way through multiplay, which requires less of 
 a commitment on the player's part, and isn't as big a deal as I had feared. It's fun, but rewards 
 solo-style independence over coordination with others. 
  
  So it's pretty good... not nearly as bad as I feared having played the PC version for a while. 
 ALSO: I hated the demo, and as it turns out, I am liking the other maps a lot more than A Bridge 
 Too Far, the map in the demo. If you have it on the PC, don't be afraid of trying this one out. 
 It's not as good as the PC version, but it's still a great time online.
  
  Oh, and forget about the lousy singleplayer... it's terrible. Only get this one if you have Live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon75
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  It's ok. The graphics are decent, the sound is standard (good surround!) , the game plays just like 
 1942. In my non-war FPS fan's eyes it's average. I liked this game the first time around because 
 it was fresh. After playing many copycats this just feels like one of them. I still feel like the 
 vehicle controls stink! And I am still not in love with the lack of teamwork demanded to win a 
 match. I say save your money until it drops in price or only buy if you MUST have an XBOX Live 
 game that is more involved than COD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind-folded
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  I've seen alot of negative reviews on this game, but my opinion is mostly the opposite. Ok, it 
 has its flaws and has some awful glitches, one glitch thats in the game doesn't let you speak or 
 you can't hear your teammates, this could ruin the experience for some but they're working on a 
 patch for it. [Update: This glitch and many other issues are now fixed]
  
  First of all, if you have the Xbox or PS2 version, then I wouldn't recomend buying it, unless you 
 are addicted to the game and would like some extra features and the upgrade in graphics, physics, 
 sound and others. I know alot of people have put low scores for their reviews because its 'kind 
 of' a port, but my review is just based on people who havn't played the older versions.
  
  -----
  
  The Campaign: Isn't that great. I've completed it and, while some levels were great, 
 it didn't drag me in and keep me gripped. Its nothing to gasp about. Some levels are fantastic, 
 especially the ones where you can fly choppers, but others feel like a chore to do. Although the 
 hotswap is a fun feature, it lacks in other areas. You can tell this game was clearly made for 
 multiplayer mode, which brings me to..
  
  The Multiplayer: In one word: Amazing. - In a sentence: This is addicting, wow, I just sniped him 
 out of that chopper! - And in a paragraph: Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is fantastic. Theres something 
 unique in this game that makes it different from every other FPS on the market, maybe its the huge 
 variety of vehicles or perhaps the balanced yet different classes, I don't know, but its there. 
 The multiplayer just puts the singe player to shame, it just radiates awesomeness and has awesomeness 
 written all over it. Theres 2 gametypes, CTF and Conquest. CTF uses the smaller maps and has more 
 action while Conquest uses the bigger maps and is alittle more calmer but still packs the action. 
 Both teams start with points. Basically, your team, which consists of 12 other people max (24 player 
 total, 12 vs 12) have to capture flags, which turn into spawn points when captured. Capturing flags 
 makes the enemys points decrease, but killing enemys also decreases the enemys points. It just 
 fits so well. You can choose a sniper and hide on the rooftops picking off people, or you can charge 
 into the battle with an Assaulter, along with the Engineer, Support and Spec Ops class too. Theres 
 so many possibilites and the fun is endless. If you havn't already played the game and have some 
 money laying around and you're into Shooters, this game is a MUST.
  
  The Graphics: They're great, although some weapon models don't look that impressive, others look 
 fantastic, the graphics overall look great, especially the character models and scenery, they have 
 a ton of detail put into them and look very impressive.
  
  The Sound: Is good, grenades sound like they should sound and guns sound realistic, the voice overs 
 sound great too. When a chopper swoops over your head and you're running into the battlefield, 
 it feels sensational.
  
  So, to summarize, if you don't have Xbox Live, then its not worth getting. The Single player campaign 
 is nothing great and it doesn't include a LAN/ Home Multiplayer feature. But if you have Xbox live, 
 its fantastic and is very very fun, a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMcCoy14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Even though Gamespot ony gave this game a 7.5, I think this game is better than that. It has good 
 gameplay that is somewhat addicting. Don't get me wrong, this is no Halo, but it is another outstanding 
 war game. If your trying to decide to get GRAW or this, I'd pick BF2: MC. BF2 has a better multiplayer 
 and online game, whereas GRAW has a better campaign. For all you people who play online all the 
 time and like shooters, this game is for you. The only thing that bugs me is when snipers parachute 
 on top of roofs out of helicopters. Otherwise this is a top-selling game in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakemeup893
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  If you could change the controls, then I might play this game a lot more. The way the controls 
 are set up are just ..... STUPID AND UNNATURAL. CAN ANYONE EXPLAIN TO ME WHY THE JUMP BUTTON IS 
 NOT A?? (its the RB button) The switch weapons key should've been the d-pad and you should be able 
 to switch between full auto and single shot rates of fire. If anyone as played BF2 on the pc, the 
 DO NOT GET THIS GAME. BF2: Modern Combat is basically a sour attempt to port BF2 to the consoles, 
 which could be done and the game would be a hit. More thought will need to be put in if EA is going 
 to release another BF game for the consoles. This game is not bad, don't get em wrong on that, 
 it's just illogical and I'ma logical person, so that's probably why it just gets to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The plot base of Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is something out of your standard, Clancy-esque techno-thriller. 
 Unrest in the Soviet state of Kazakhstan has sent a US-led, UN peacekeeping force to the region 
 in order to promote stability. However, the Chinese are a little nervous by this show of force, 
 and they have sent their own forces into the region in order to maintain their own territorial 
 interests. You'll switch back and forth between controlling the Americans and Chinese throughout 
 the game's 20-mission campaign. What's neat about the campaign structure is that between missions 
 you'll be treated to some fake news broadcasts from media outlets on both sides of the war. It's 
 rather amusing to see two conflicting accounts of the same battles that you've just fought, which 
 provokes the idea that nobody ever tells the whole truth in a wartime situation. The campaign missions 
 themselves are pretty varied, even if certain maps and areas get recycled a bit. You'll drive tanks 
 to capture and defend bases, fly out to investigate and destroy enemy cargo ships, and fight in 
 and around an oil platform, among other things. The maps in the game are of a decent size and definitely 
 give enough space to fight large-scale, combined-arms battles. The missions don't take too long 
 and aren't very difficult to beat, but beating them with a high rating can be hard. The game encourages 
 you to replay missions for rank, and earning a higher rank gets you new weapons for the various 
 classes in the game, as well as upgrades, such as a larger ammo capacity, to existing weapons. 
 The biggest problem with the missions in Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is that they feel too canned 
 and contrived, which doesn't fit the series. At least the spawning issue that plagued the other 
 versions of the game seems to have been addressed somewhat in this version of the game. Instead 
 of enemies popping out of nowhere, you'll often see them approach by boat, helicopter, or some 
 other vehicle. But at times, they still do pop in from thin air, which makes it somewhat difficult 
 to measure the flow of a mission. The more difficult missions in the campaign often require you 
 to memorize the sequence of scripted events, which will help you get the jump on the enemy. There's 
 little in the way of tactics or counter-strategies that you need to know, aside from choosing appropriate 
 unit counters for a given threat. The friendly artificial intelligence can also be frustrating 
 at times -- they never seem to take the lead in a battle, as they usually follow you very slowly 
 and there's no way to direct them anywhere. Also, they're not very effective at helping you out 
 and tend to waste a lot of ammo, which is a problem when you're switching back and forth between 
 allies. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmLostWhatAreU
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  An awesome FPS for the 360, first or second best next to G. R. A. W. Graphics and sound are to die 
 for, especially in comparison to the Xbox and PS2 versions. Single player is great, especially 
 with the hotswapping and rankings after each level. Campaign is good, especially since you can 
 go back to a level you've already done and try to get a better ranking without have to do the whole 
 campaign over again. Online play is amazing, easy to join a game (though sometimes you enter right 
 as it's about to end) , gameplay is amazing and just highly addictive. They could've made it slightly 
 easier when it comes to driving vehicles, but overall they did a good job. I especially love how 
 equal the soldiers are (sniper, assault, support, enigineer, and SMG) , it seems like all of them 
 could bring down a vehicle with ease and aren't too lobsided. Once again, a must if you have Live 
 and like FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is the second game to come to the consoles, and for the most part it has its fair 
 share of improvements: like: Wicked improved graphics, more real gun models, improved physics, 
 and a couple improvements for the HUD thats bout IT SOOOOOOOOOOOO......... lets get on to the multiplayer 
 the multiplayer is great in this game its a blast to FRAG ur friends! But the beef I got with the 
 multiplayer is not having increased players playing on 1 server! Y could it not be at least 64 
 players now that would be a battlefield! Now on to the single-player the single-player is all in 
 here nothing lost I just wish they had added like coop that would be fun! So at the end of the 
 day the game has GREAT MULTIPLAYER, but whats sad is thats about all this game has going for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geom1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  its a good game and if you are seriously into the whole online play thing it is a good game but 
 its an irritating game. its not the game itself but more the players. lots of people simply camp 
 in the game and snipe which is not only irritating but unrealistic and considering that the game 
 is trying to simulate war to a degree this isnt good. while this isn't strictly the games fault 
 i do feel that a limit on the number of snipers should have been built into the game and while 
 using a sniper rifle to shoot a pilot from a plane isn't impossible its unlikely to happen it occurs 
 way too frequently in the game. i may sound negative but this game is a good game and while its 
 not exactly the pc version it is good and i would advise playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good tactical shooter. It did much better than its Xbox and PS2 versions.
  
  The graphics have made a big improvement. Explosions look pretty sweet too. The enemy AI may 
 not take cover but they are pretty tough. Guns look well detailed.
  
  The voice acting for the chinese is kindof off. Americans sound alright though. THe explosions 
 sound pretty good too.
  
  If you like modern tactical shooters that are in first person, this is definately worth checking 
 out. Its pretty cool and you will grow to like it in the progress of the campaign.
  
  The downside is that Chinese missions aren't that fun. I don't personaly like fighting U. S. soldiers. 
 Plus u're just taking out civilian ships at first.
  
  Overall, this game is very fun. I really enjoy it and it is definately worth the wait to players 
 who really wanted this game.
  
  An 8.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chingstar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 is a very fun game but eventually runs out of things to entertain and keep your interest. 
 What will really keep you playing is the online play and the intense gunfights you can have online.
 
  If your into realistic gun play this is not the game for you. What I mean by this is you will 
 usually be running around trying to shoot as many people without dieing and then eventually dieng 
 yourself with no tactics involved what so ever. After you breeze through the storyline or just 
 give up on it the real fun begins.
  Online play is definitely the most exciting part about this game. When you arrive online you are 
 able to have 12 on 12 battles of capture the flag and conquest mode. These battles go on for a 
 while and even after the fights over you have the option of playing with the same players from 
 the last game which will allow you to make new friends and enemies. There are also clans that you 
 can join which make the game more exciting by being able to have clan matches.
  The games sounds and graphics are also very entertaining. From hearing people yell from when their 
 hit to bullet holes being left in the wall from the last intense gunfight.
  All together this is a very fun game but if you do not have Xbox live it will not keep your attention 
 for very long.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  I know, I know you think this game is going to be terrible because the x box one is, but luckily 
 it is not. It's as good as the one for the computer, but it's still pretty darn good. The only 
 problem I had was the rip your hair off hard campaign mode. I soon found out that the game's online 
 play was the best online best play since halo 2. The thing is, is that the game has perfect graphics, 
 awsome sound, great online, it's a pretty good value, but the campaign could have been better. 
 Also the story is sort of cool and this game is finally a game that takes placein or near modern 
 times that doesn't make you fight the Russians! I mean if it wasn't for the Russians we never would 
 have won ww2 so thank god for that. And lat but not least it's finally a game where you get to 
 be against the Chinese. Hooray!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 : Modern Combat is in essence the same game that appeared on Xbox and PS2 a few months 
 before. It's fun in both single and multiplayer modes, but the real place to play is online.
  
  Campaign mode has you explore many various landscapes shooting people and blowing things up. 
 It's fun for a while, but you should not get this game just for the campaign.
  
  Online presents a large warzone with many different roles. Take to the hills with your trusty sniper 
 rifle, rush with your heavy machine gun, or tactically maneuver the well-designed maps with an 
 SMG. You can find your niche in this game. Or, of course, take control of one of the many vehicles 
 including tanks, humvees, and helicopters in your quest for victory.
  
  What it comes down to: Battlefield has one of the best multiplayer shooting experiences to date, 
 and a relatively fun campaign. It can be enjoyed by practically any shooter fan, but could easily 
 be thrown aside by any upcoming shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun, I rented it and loved the campaign and found the enemies at a reasonable 
 difficulty, howvever when playing online I was very bad, and kept getting killed.
  
  I didnt get 1 online achievement because of how good the people on it are. I dontknow If i was 
 just really bad or if they were really good. There are good weapons and vehicles, and it was really 
 fin, especially sniping and using the rockets, YOU should rent it first to see if you like it, 
 If you are good at these kind of hard multiplayer games, than you will love this game and not put 
 it down. (unless ur playing oblivion) . I found the achievements somewhat reasonable, but very hard 
 to get during one rental period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booyadude
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of thise people that played Battlefield 2 on the PC, and was absolutely mezmerized by it's 
 level of detail and community size, as well as the cooperation that comes into play during many 
 of the battles. But, if you're also like me, you'll find that Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is almost 
 a completely different game.
  Now, that's not exactly a bad thing. For one thing, the controls and multiplayer have to be adjusted 
 to make an enjoyable experience on a console. Speaking of controls, they're your standard FPS controls, 
 despite the awkward placing of the crouch button, which isn't a button at all. It's the left trigger, 
 and more than a couple times, I've found myself hitting that button by accident many times during 
 some intense close-quarters battles. 
  That's a good start to what really makes this game shine, although in a different way than the 
 PC predecessor. I've never played the Xbox or PS2 versions of the game, but I know for a fact that 
 the graphics on those systems were nowhere near the level that they are on the 360. They're not 
 as stunning as, say, GRAW, but they have an extreme amount of detail and fluidity to them that 
 make them feel almost as if you are litterally looking through the eyes of a Marine soldier on 
 the modern battlefield.
  This is where it gets tricky, a little, because the gameplay has some quirks that don't help to 
 back up the top-notch graphics. I already stated the odd placement of the crouch button, but there 
 is also some weird things that mught happen while you're playing, even in single player. First, 
 there's the fact that it seems as if people can kill you faster than you can, even when you're 
 hitting them the whole time you're finger is pressed down on the right trigger. Some of this is 
 due to some weapons that seem a little unbalanced, like the assault rifles in each army. 
  Besides that, though, the gameplay is gratifying and intense, as well as sometimes absolutely spectacular. 
 The sheer amount of options that you have on the battlefield is daunting at first, but then you'll 
 find that you prefer a class better than the others and start getting extremely, and I mean that, 
 good at that class. Others will switch arounf from class to class, but that's what makes this game 
 so appealing. There's pretty much something for everyone. If you want to snipe, hang back with 
 a spotter, launch some artillary, wait to blow some C4 as soon as a tank rolls by, or just run-n-gun. 
 
  Variety is the name of the game, and the game has plenty of it. The sound is another back-up to 
 the graphics and fairly intense gameplay, as there are many weapons that each have a disinctive 
 sound. You'll hear gunfire crackling in the background, and you'll know what's coming.
  Because of all this variety, the value of the game is something of an attraction, also, because 
 you can find yourself becoming lost in the game for hours on end. I know I havem because the transitions 
 are extremely seamless and presented in a very tone-heavy loading screen that gets you into the 
 gritty type of warfare that this game offers. 
  The single-player provides some varying objectives, and the missions are entertaining, although 
 sometime unfairly challenging. The story is lost in the almost monologue-worty voice-overs done 
 by each side's general or colonel or leader, whichever you want. The voice acting is done with 
 a slightly-cliched American tough-guy type voice and a heavily-cliched Chinese and British typ 
 voice. 
  Overall, the single-player is merely a distraction from the shining multiplayer that is satifying 
 and intense. If you've played the PC Battlefield 2, then you might find it odd that this one is 
 almost simplistic compared to that one, but you'll find what's good in it and have some late-hour-nights 
 ahead of you. From the beautiful graphics to the mostly fluid gameplay, this game is an incredibly 
 addictive game that is worth losing yourself in for some of the best Xbox Live action ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_blaid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Even though Battlefield 2 has a few minor flaws, it's still a great game that's worth picking up. 
 The campaign mode is a little strange to play because it seems to be a bunch of random missions 
 that dont make much sense to me. However, despite this, the campaign is still very entertaining. 
 The missions have great detail put in to them and the AI is very advanced. The challenge missions 
 are also very fun and some are extremely difficult to complete. The greatest part of the game though 
 is the multiplayer. Multiplayer play never gets old due to the class variety and the various maps 
 available. There are a few annoying glitches that occasionaly take away from teh fun of it but 
 they dont occur too often. Anyone that enjoys online FPS's should definately consider picking up 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I have spent almost 30 hours so far playing online with my friedns and can say that it and CoD2 
 are the best online games to date. I wasn't planning on getting this but the game drought until 
 Chromehounds made me take the plunge..... anyways the Demo for Xbox on the OXM kept me into one 
 MP map for months and I went to Eb and preored BF 2 for launch. Well i didn't make it to launch 
 and I waited. After the demo came out for the market place I was like OH MAN THEY MADE THE GAME 
 WORSE... but the demo and actual game are completely different.
  Capturing Territories is teh highlight of the game and my favorite maps include Deadly Pass, The 
 Nest, The overplayed Backstab and BRIDGE TOOFAR. I am always Special Ops because of teh accuracy 
 and reasonable rate of fire.... but mainly for the highly lethal c4 charges it enables you to use. 
 Anyone thinking what I'm Thinkin...... bomber cars.
  Teh unfunnily hard Single player is another thing... if you put the time in like me you can master 
 it but you will be stopped by a train that IGN described as being made of refined admantium.... i 
 just call it the imminent Train of Death.... it ground my campaign to a halt just 2 levels away 
 from finishing the game. And if you have been gaming for a while this is one of those gaming WTF 
 moments like when the chick asked about the fine for necrophyliacism in Cyrodill. (Oblivion) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  gest reason is ppl and maps. The gameplay is good but some reason theres no feeling? like the commander 
 sounds like a high pitch guy with no ballz. the maps arent really special i didnt think any of 
 the maps were any good in my opinion. The 360 is awesome no doubt bout it, i mostly bout it for 
 the racing, madden, ncass and 3rd person u cant really compare a fps on a console vs a PC the Pc 
 will always win. The koolest thing i touhgt that this game did was its aiming. For aiming with joysticks 
 its awesome unlike far cry pred. But if u ppl have money enough to buy a decent puter take my advice 
 playing with more jet, choppers, better looking terrains, armies, guns, unlocking weapons as u go on. 
 the biggest thing is ppl to play i dont know how ppl can only play with 24?????? i even hate playing 
 just with 32 online on the puter it has to be 64. when u guys play with 64 ppl its so much better 
 u feel like ur actually running down a street on iraq running for cover! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game has good online. With all the vehicles and ranks. It has similar things to G. R. A. W. Like 
 the differents classes of guys like rifleman and assault rifleman. Also it has the different ranks 
 like coporal and seregant. But the downs are has some bugs like freezing and eyes bulging out when 
 you die. {If you just read that sentence, tell me if you' ve noticed that too.} Okay to wrap this 
 review up just play the multiplayer, because there isn't much to the single player at all. So get 
 this game for massive multiplayer matches with guns blazing and grenades flying! 
  
  This game has good online. With all the vehicles and ranks. It has similar things to G. R. A. W. Like 
 the differents classes of guys like rifleman and assault rifleman. Also it has the different ranks 
 like coporal and seregant. But the downs are has some bugs like freezing and eyes bulging out when 
 you die. {If you just read that sentence, tell me if you' ve noticed that too.} Okay to wrap this 
 review up just play the multiplayer, because there isn't much to the single player at all. So get 
 this game for massive multiplayer matches with guns blazing and grenades flying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a game that is incredibly fun if you just sit down and play it for a few rounds online, 
 and ignore the original xbox worthy graphics. You will spend many hours with the incredible online, 
 with its addictinve ranking system, featured online and off (preferably online, But lets get to 
 that later) . The game is really meant to be pick up and play, and it shows greatly with its simple 
 mechanics that work together greatly. The learing curve is very shallow so if your playing against 
 a bunch of staff seargents, and your a private first class, you won't feel like your on the disadvantage, 
 and you will fit in nicely. There are a nice variety of maps online too, however only a few are 
 really worth playing, and one of them was on the demo so yeaa. And also for some reason they decided 
 to throw in this ctf online mode that i find to be terrribly boring and dull. They are basicly 
 smaller, dumbed down sections of bigger maps, available in the conquest mode, where you mainly 
 can just sneak into the enemy base and take there flag, never finding you. **hint: stick to conquest 
 mode... its actually FUN** Now lets get to the single player... hold your breath... i hope youve started. 
 OK The single player, in the words of Simon Cowell, is "Utterly horrendous" Well its not that bad 
 it just gets way too hard, repetative, and the whole time your fghting against REALLY stupid bots. 
 they just run up and shoot. The hit detection is kind of off, in a bad way. You just kind of aim 
 towards them, and you'll hit. Plus, the enemies all have little red diamonds over their heads, 
 so you kind of get a hint where they are... AADDDUHHHH in a retard voice Somehow this game is good 
 though so BUY IT NOW FOOL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-wing20
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm actually disaponted with BF2MC. This game is worth it for the multy player. CamPAIN is way 
 to hard. there is no instant action, the Acheivments are hard to get espaically in multplayer and 
 thers no split screen. If you don't have Xboxlive than you mines as well forget because this game 
 is no fun offline. if you want to play Battlefield 2 get the pc version or get one of the games 
 predasseors. I'll tell you you know Battle field 1942 is so much better than BF2MC for the consles. 
 Heres a German lesson for you "Ich bin ein Berliner" meansI am a jelly donut" get rid of the 
 ein and it means im a person from berlin. sorry abou that i needed a total of 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob_Job
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is alright, the concept is awesome, but no not enough action. The online is where 
 it's at but still not enough players in one match. The vehicles are ok but 2 easy 2 get rid of 
 and omg the health system sux... hence modern combat... YOU CANT GET SHOT 11 HUNDRED TIMES IN THE 
 HEAD AND LIVE! it would be alot more fun if it atleast had a health option 1 shot one kill... graphics 
 are ok but could be better and ima say it again... more players atleast 50 if xbox live could pull 
 it off with such a game as black hawk down then XBL Gold should be able to pull off twice as much... please 
 dont buy it first first rent it cuz ull die of boredom in 8 hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggut198
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-8- The gameplay is awesome on-line, though some weapons are very underpowered. For example, 
 the M60/SAW would tear apart anybody in its path with two hits. In the game, however, it takes 
 about 10-15 hits and by that time you're dead because the MP5 takes about 3 hits to kill someone. 
 There is no location damage, so head shots don't have any difference to leg shots. I shot a guy 
 5 times in the head, close up, with the M60/SAW and he didn't die. The single player campaign is 
 decent but could be alot better. Your teammates are mentally challenged and the only reason to 
 keep them is for hot-swapping. I've literally been shot by them because they were trying to shoot 
 someone behind the wall. Odd? Yes. Also, pushing barrels and other random stuff is very glitchy 
 and choppy and might as well be taken out. Vehicles are very nice though hard to drive if you're 
 used to other games such as Halo and Far Cry. 
  
  Graphics-9- The graphics are very nice though sometimes the animations are a bit choppy and some 
 models look kinda strange.
  
  Sound-10- The sounds are very realistic and nice. The sound of distant firefights just make you 
 want to jump into a helicopter and blow the fudge-muffins out of the enemy.
  
  Value-8- To me, the game is not quite worth the $60 pricetag due to the low-quality single player 
 experience. If you have the extra money and xbox live, you might as well pick it up because online 
 is a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  BF2MC is a fun way to kill a few hours. Lots of mayhem and I love the hotswap option between squad 
 members. Additionally when you die, it isn't game over or spawn back at the begining, but you take 
 over someone else on the field. This may be old to the BF games (never played one, so I don't know) 
 but it's a nice change from what I have seen. 
  
  Gameplay - A little complicated at first, but once you get it down, fairly natural feeling. Just 
 remember, strategy helps!
  
  Graphics - The game looks great in every way that I can explain. The characters, vehicles, the 
 weapons... you name it, you can almost feel it.
  
  Sounds - well it sounds like real combat to me (of course I have never been in a battlefield before!
 
  
  Over all? - If you like war games, get it... if not, rent it you will at least enjoy a few hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying yea this game has a few minor problems which consist of pop-in's and 
 disconnections from the EA Servers but other than those 2 technical issue's the game is great. 
 Sure Ghost Recon may be my favorite stealth or realistic shooter but until you play BF2 you won't 
 feel complete. The game has GRAW beat in the online graphics department from the great structured 
 levels, looking at the bullet holes put in the walls and ground, even player models look detailed 
 and sharp. Not to mention looking at the weapons is like eye candy. I highly suggest turning all 
 huds and screen off to play just with the weapon reticle. The game is like a cinematic beauty at 
 that stage. 
  
  Every soldier class is good and useful from the support soldier to assult. The feeling of being 
 driven by a fellow teamate while you take control of the turret and watch his back until you get 
 to your destination point the jumpout to use your rocket launcher on your shoulder blow up enemy 
 tanks or vehicles is pure fun but nothing is more satisfy than blowing up an enemy Heli with a 
 rocket launcher watching it explode to the floor. The power you feel in your player lets you know 
 that no matter how high up or what weapon your packing everyone can be killed. Explosions such 
 as those from grenades even feel better and more intense than GRAW. 
  
  It feels like a mini nuclear explosion with the subtle wave over the explosion area. Sometimes 
 your teamates can be a problem as everyone will rather want to wait around and get a helicopter 
 instead of winning the match or hopping in a tank to quick get to the action so you can run and 
 gun or take contol of a tank and blow sh! t up. Though sometimes it can be great if you surround 
 yourself with good communicating players. Most players didn't talk my whole match but when I told 
 them I need back-up at flag 3 all of a sudden I saw enemies collapsing and jeeps speeding in with 
 teamates jumping out and my crew Heli flying over me... they didn't talk but certainly responded 
 and that feeling is great and one you just don't get from other Live titles at the moment. Honestly 
 I haven't played the campaign (single player offline) mode much and nor would I want to. 
  
  The real fun is on Live and for a offline experience i'd rather play GRAW as the presentation of 
 gameplay is a lot more orignal and gorgeous. If you've never play BF2 before or have been considering 
 about jumping into the Xbox Live scene this is definitly the game to get as its ease of play allows 
 anybody to jump in and play. Switching weapons on the fly is the best in any game so far in my 
 opinion as all you do is hold RB and move the analog left, right, up, or down to switch to the appropiate 
 weapon as opposed to GRAW where you eventually will have to use the scroll to pick what you want 
 and make yourself very vulnerable. 
  
  While I still intend to play my GRAW everyday so I can get some serious kills, climb them ranks 
 and talk trash for my evil satisfaction I will also put in plenty of hours to BF2 for sheer fun, 
 kick back and just looking to have a good time.
  
  Thanks for reading this super long review, please check out my others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplayhousex
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  Battlefield is such a great game! I'm so glad I bought it because I was so sick of playing Halo 
 2. I use the spec ops and the assault mostly. i love the C4 and I seriously have an obsession with 
 knife kills! I will totally hunt people until they stop running. If you havent played this game, 
 you need to play it. and if you only played it a few times or like once and didnt like it, play 
 it again i tell you!! The sniper is great because he carries the GPS around and the support kit 
 is badass cause they carry the health pack. oh and lets not forget about all the tanks and jeeps 
 and helos and all the other nutty vehicles in the game. this game is seriously a buy! i dont think 
 ill stop playing this one for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_fat_bum
Rating: 5
Date: May 26, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  i only reccomend playing this on xnox live or any online. single player action is horrid. at first 
 it seems tempting to get it. but only get if u have online. if u get it with out online play, its 
 a waist of money. $68 for a game only for online, are they kidding. this game stnks like a big 
 peace of cow turd, unless u have online... then its a masterpeice. this game looks very good with 
 great sounds, but gameplay wise; its just not good. now, speaking of the goods about this game. 
 as u already know the online play is waked up (in a good way) in this game. u have a maximum of 
 24 people in 1 game of online play. u can play with anyone in the world weather its a 12 year old 
 or an acctual WWII veteran, u can play with 24 people. but over all, im not a fan of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 25, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  this game can be best described as an addictive multiplayer platform game. once you have a little 
 taste you just want more and more. the campaign is ok emmersing the player for some time but once 
 the multiplayer starts going theres no stopping. minutes turn to hours hours to days. the only 
 real flaw in this game is really the A. I. in the campaign. its just plain stupid. once you reach 
 the last level of either the chinese or nato forces side you pretty much do all the work and after 
 a while throwing your controller becomes a reacurring thing. hopefully the next battlefield game 
 will have a much smarter ai. anyone who absolutly loves halo 2 type online matches will absolutly 
 love this game and should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramulux
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  i have played 2 levels in 1 player, do not buy this game for the single player, there is no offline 
 multiplayer only buy this game if you have xbox live. diffs between xbox version and 360 verrsion 
 besides updated graphics, theres more vehicles/boats/helicopters per level. the game is fast paced 
 and has clans, its my halo right now, with fast vehicle combat and big team battles its the closest 
 thing i have to halo. give this a chance for the online alone pick t up used. controls are easy 
 you'll be getting kills in no time, being able to use the vehicles in diff ways is great to the 
 helicopter control takes time but with a lil effort you'll be taking flags in the helicopter. getting 
 the achievments online is a blast and addicting it uses all the character also so you get a good 
 feel for each one while getting achievments, the only thing that sucks besides the one player is 
 when playing diffrent countries there is ambient voices and there languages are really annoying 
 thats why i always just pick american but other than that its great every country has the same 
 characters to choose from but all there weapons are diffrent looking but are the same wich is cool 
 to mix it up a lil. so if your looking for a halo killer thsi is not but the closest i think youll 
 get for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Modern Combat fas so far been shunned by critics. And I've got to say I see why. 
 When the difficulty throws a curveball at you going from mildly hard to damn near impossible you 
 WILL be pissed. But the single player is not the reason to make this a buy. The multi is compelling 
 and is probably the best online for consoles. 
  
  The Game features 24 player online. Which is great, but there are only two modes available. Conquest 
 which is exactly the same as Star Wars: Battlefront "capture command post and run down the enemy 
 tickets" formula which works well in the game. Then there's you're typical CTF game mode. 
  
  This may seem like a good amount of multi content and it will keep you hooked for hours but... 
 i wish there was a deathmatch and teamdeathmatch option. Also a 24 player co-op would be incredible 
 in a game like this. 
  
  Not to be a graphics wh*re but the visuals are AMAZING if not the best i've ever seen. Sound is 
 always perfect and never screwed up in my case. 
  
  Basically this is a must buy for ANYONE with live that loves fps games. I would NOT recremond this 
 game for the "i hate fps games but i like halo esque style of gameplay" if you fit this catagory 
 get COD2 it has the rechargig health and all the same gametypes as Halo.
  
  a well deserved 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cctgta
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The campaign game is not that great whatsoever. But that should not stop you from getting this 
 game. This is hands down the best online game for the xbox 360. The campaign isn't bad but the 
 online play will keep you busy for a while. Although I will say it takes a good while to become 
 really good at it, so before you buy the game i recommend downloading the demo so you get practice. 
 Once you get used to it you'll love this game. Not only is the online play awesome but the aspect 
 of clans is awesome, and it adds on to the greatness of this game.
  
  OVERALL GAMEPLAY REVIEW: 
  Campaign mode: 4/10
  Online mode: 9/10
  
  GET THIS GAME AS SOON 
 AS POSSIBLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyverx95
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 22, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  i tried the demo for it on xbox live arcade it was really awsome (epecially the type of guns) but 
 then when i went to the store it said that it was only online multyplayer so i was really bummed 
 and mad so i did not buy it because i like to screw around but everybody online takes it serousouly 
 
  gdfg dsgsdfg gds gdfs g d sg dsg g r g rsg sf g g sg rg rg sg es g rg rgh r gr g rg r gr gs rg 
 r g r rg g g er gr gr g rg dr gd gd rg rg r g gg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 20, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Id like to attack the horrible effort on the single player first. This game was said and hyped 
 to be greatly improved not only graphically but AI wise as well. Well I can say for sure that this 
 was not the case as the AI and glitches were all over the place making this one of the most boring 
 and lacking single player experiences I had the burden of playing through.
  
  This game also has horrible clipping issues with things such as barrels and other objects... a tank 
 can become jammed and jerking when it touches a barrel making it impossible for a tank to go by 
 a barrel.... hmmm tank vs barrel-who would have known? Also the one of the best things about this 
 game would have to bet its pretty nice multiplayer graphics which are really tainted by some horrible 
 and unforgivable shadows that look like big chunky black splotches flickering about. The in game 
 voice chat is STILL broken and no patch has come out yet even though EA addressed this issue would 
 be patched like 3 days after the game launched. Also there is this totally annoying loud announcer 
 that you cant adjust at all. This is so annoying its very worth mentioning toward the negative 
 of this games sound... you cant enjoy the games music or sound effects because this announcer SCREAMS 
 louder and over all the games sound.
  
  As for the multiplayer its pretty fun and this is probably all that saves this game, but thats 
 not to say it doesnt have its problems but for the most part this game is fun, fairly lag free, 
 and the graphics are pretty nice.
  
  Though this is just another remake of an old xbox game it has some fun for those who didnt play 
 the xbox one. Not a next gen effort by EA in any way. Scoring this game will be leaning toward 
 the multiplayer as the single player is not worth the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fauij
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 19, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Since this game is on the PC, xbox, PS2, and now the Xbox 360. I loved the pc version since they 
 were more maps that you could get by the expansion packs and more extra features that you could 
 do. But now its on the xbox 360 and i was hoping what type of new thing you could do and everything 
 because EA games had said they totally remade the game. But when I actually played it I was pretty 
 interested at first by how good everything looked incredibly nice of how the player moved and shoots 
 by the shell casings on the ground. But then I started to realize that this is the same exact game 
 on the original xbox and that there was nothing else new. It was the same 4 or 5 maps that everyone 
 else played on the xbox. This game could of been much more better if they had more special features 
 such as like downloading maps online on marketplace or atleast someting new. I am kind of disapointed 
 but it still looks great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Sanmay
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Well I got this game and the the first impression you get on loading it up is the great music at 
 the start up screen.
  
  I started off with the campaign mode.
  
  The game gets extremely challenging later on often requiring you to give multiple tries to pass 
 a mission. Some missions seem next to impossible (like one during the end where you have to destroy 
 an oncoming train) and such missions will definitely try your patience.
  
  The selection of weapons and vehicles is great to say the least.
  
  The enemy AI is good and 
 quite accurate to say. The friendly AI unfortunately is dumb to say the least. They hardly use 
 any tactics and just run straight in to get shot.
  
  The single-player campaign is extensive and will definitely keep you occupied for hours together. 
 The locations are good if not absolutely stunning.
  
  The hot-swap feature where in you can take the roll of another troop is pretty cool and useful. 
 It's basically if you are an assaulter and you say your vehicle damage you can take the role of 
 a nearby friendly engineer troop to repair the vehicle and then "hot-swap" back to the assaulter.
 
  
  To sum it all up:
  
  A challenging tactical shooter with good graphics, great gameplay and hopeless friendly AI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustinurchops24
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great fun.. if you want a great multiplayer game just buy it.
  
  its easily the best game next to GRAW and oblivion
  
  since i need 100 words
  
  THIS GAME 
 ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS 
 GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME 
 ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
 
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  THIS GAME ROCKS
  
 THIS GAME ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stre7ch
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 18, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has some great points to it. The player "kits" (the equipment you start with) are all 
 pretty well balanced, and have lots of neat devices for taking out specific targets. The controls 
 are responcive, and easy to learn. The multiplayer is AWESOME, with 24 players a map and tons of 
 vehicles to up the excitement in each and every round you play. Veterens, however, will be disappointed 
 in the fact that jets are nowhere to be found, and the field commander and squad options have been 
 removed. You will be happy, though, that the graphics have had a major overhaul, and look great. 
 This is MUCH better than its older gen counterparts, that in my oppinion, sucked.
  On that note, is the singleplayer factor. It is kinda fun for a while, especially with the "hotswap" 
 feature, where you can jump from soldier to soldier, and control them, but the singleplayer missions 
 are full of terrible, game breaking glitches, and the AI, both allied and enemy, mostly act like 
 they have a stupid stick shoved strait up their butts. The missions are often boring or mind numbingly 
 difficult, but there are those golden few that are pretty fun.
  The one thing that keeps it interesting is the ranking system, that allows you to unlock upgrades 
 for weapons, and new ones altogether, but it is not enough to redeam the singleplayer.
  Overall, a fun game. The multiplayer is to die for, with pleanty of people to play with. The singleplayer, 
 however, is fun for a little while, but suddenly seems very empty and lack-luster. A good game, 
 go rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 16, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  didn't like the Xbox version.
  
  Battlefield 2 for Xbox 360 has a really nice online multiplayer that will keep you up all night 
 on the weekends, but Single Player is still as dull and idiotic as the Xbox version.
  
  Gameplay
  Single isn't even worth mentioning or wasting my time talking about, so I'll skip right 
 to multiplayer. Online for this game is absolutely phenomenal fun for a port game. Being a part 
 of a huge battlefield with so many vehicles, weapons, and strategic points to take advantage of, 
 the 360 really takes Battlefield to a new level for console gamers. 12 v 12 matches are very intense 
 and really fun when you can find a good "Hot Spot" and just sit and pick people off. Conquest is 
 by far the best part of this game, making it like a modern military Star Wars Battlefront FPS.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are really amazing in this game, especially for a port. Lighting effects are really 
 good but the best part is the character models. They grit their teeth when unloading a full auto 
 weapon on someone... and the fine details really show with the 360s power. Also, the level of destruction 
 adds to realism. Chip of the walls and pieces of dirt will chip away or disappear as your getting 
 shot, making for an exciting moment when you see a chunk of wall disintegrate right by your head 
 from a sniper bullet. Explosions and fire effects are very medicore, and environmental/nature effects 
 are okay as well.
  
  Sound
  First off, all who have played know that the announcer can get really annoying, especially if you're 
 on the team where he doesn't even speak English, and although this might add to the realism... it 
 makes you sorry you have a 5.1 Surround Sound System because you have to take it from all angles. 
 Guns and explosions are good, but nothing special. Also when a person dies the character makes 
 a grunting sound sometimes that can be humurous... but then you snap back into reallity. Probably 
 the best of the sound department would be vehicles because you can always tell when a tank or car 
 is pulling up nearby... and helicopters have a distinct sound, but it always makes you wet yourself 
 when you're caught out in the open field with nothing but an assault kit.
  
  Achievements
  Achievements can be a chore, but can easily be done with a little help from a friend. 
 I think with a Single Player as crappy as this achievements shouldn't be there to force you to 
 play it... and the online and offline achievements are almost identical except you just achieve 
 them with or without a friend.
  
  Overall
  If you like Modern Military FPSs then definatley check this out. If you didn't like the Xbox version 
 you might want to at least rent it unless you absolutley despised it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdRabbitx
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game because it gives you the experiences of playing in all types of different 
 styles. You can drive vehicles ranging from helicopters, tanks, hummers, boats, and now in the 
 X360 version you can even drive snow mobiles!
  
  Of course you can be a foot soldier for your squad using either an Assault character which carrys 
 a strong 30 clip gun and grenades; a Special Op soldier which carrys a silenced SMG and C4; also 
 you can be a Engineer which carrys landmines, rockets, and a shotgun; you can also take a support 
 man which carry a heavy machine gun with a 200 bullet clip, and can even call a mortar strike; 
 and of course which many people favorite, the sniper which packs 5 bullet clips but kills in one 
 clean hit (even to someones foot) and also a GPS tracker to send a radar signal to all allies showing 
 the enemies position. 
  
  But my favorite part of the game would definetely be the test of your awareness on the battlefield. 
 You can definetely tell who the good players are from the bad according to who contributes the 
 most to his team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesydagger
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 24, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This is another Halo type game where the single player game is so-so but the online game is excellent. 
 
  
  So many HUGE problems bug this game like you have to kill EVERY person on a level to advance and 
 a few time son the oil rig level a few bad guys spawned outside of the map bounds so I had to start 
 the level all over again.
  
  Another thing is some levels are big and they have no save feature or no checkpoint? What the f**k 
 are the developers doing? Sometimes I have to save a game if I go out somewhere and im sure seeing 
 how crap the levels are that no one raelly wants to sit through the same levels of crapness again 
 and again.
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME if you do not have access to xbox live as its so bad I would give it 3/10 
 for offline buy 8/10 for online.
  
  (Recently I have been playing the campaign mode more and its quite good but hard, medals are finally 
 being given out offline and I may actually try and complete now. ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirFatalChaos
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat for the 360 had it's ins and outs.
  
  Singleplayer:
  I think that the single player is not worth playing. It is somewhat fun, but after playing a few 
 missions it just gets plain boring. The "hotswap" feature is pretty nice. It lets you switch to 
 a different soldier; you can "hotswap" to a class you want or a person in a vehicle you want to 
 use. The AI isn't great. They will rush you no matter what class they are, and you friendlies die 
 within seconds (ex. a sniper rushing an enemy tank.) You have to "earn" the different classes and 
 the equipment, so you can use them. To get them you have to beat levels within a short time, have 
 good accuracy, not let your friendlies die, etc.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is enough to rent or buy it. 24 player battles (12 v. 12) , with large maps and 
 vehicles, get exciting and very intense. A good selection of 16 different maps gives you more strategies 
 and choices to do. All the maps are different in big ways, so it's not like playing the same generic 
 map over and over again. The 5 different classes you can choose from make it equal in that you 
 can't hold ALL the weapons and were you can't choose what weapons you can pick from. Really it 
 is a good idea, because people would just get the best weapons and items to use (ex. Someone with 
 an assault rifle, C4, healing supplies, and the tracking device.) The 4 factions you can play make 
 it more less repetitive with different skins, weapons, and voices. If you only had the same faction 
 to play, it would get old and dull seeing the same skins, weapons, and hearing the same voices 
 (Think about hearing the American voice over and over and over again.... "We lost flag 3!!"..... 
 Hurts your ears doesn't it?) The only downfall is the hit detection isn't the best. You can light 
 an enemy up and then he shoots you with around 5 bullets and you die. Sometimes it's the other 
 way around, but it can get frustrating.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are so sweet. From the detail of the guns to the explosions make Battlefield 2: Modern 
 Combat pretty to look at. It's amazing seeing the terrain past the level boundries, a helicopter 
 falling from the clear sky onto the ground exploding, and throwing all your C4 onto a car and driving 
 it into a teammate then jumping out and pressing the shiny red button ontop of the detenator.
 
  
  Overall is this a great game. If you don't have Xbox Live then don't even touch this game. If you 
 do, rent or buy it and turn on Xbox Live!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Having never played Battlefield 2 on PC, PS2 or Xbox, I was in for a big surprise. This is a very 
 fun and at times addictive game. Playing as NATO or Chinese forces to see who gets control of Kazakhstan. 
 There will be times where the game seems a little too hard, but nothing that can not be done. There 
 are also lots of bugs but nothing that will keep you from playing and enjoying the games. What 
 can be more fun then mowing down lots of enemy troops and hear their screams? Sometimes I'm glad 
 the AI just send in troops in a single line (It's like a screaming domino effect) . Driving jeeps 
 is easy but flying a chopper will take some practice. This is a must for any war, FPS fan. If you 
 have LIVE, you will have many online hours put on this game. Single player is a good while it lasts, 
 it not as long as I was hopping but not many next gen games are as long as I want them to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The single player in this game is awful compared to the online. It is just too hard and kinda weird. 
 I hate that when you die you just get to be another guy. The hotswap feature is pretty neat but 
 gets old fast. Overall dont buy this game if you dont have live. The graphics are average. A little 
 to dark in some of the desert levels. The sound is really good but nothing special. The online 
 is a blast. 24 people running around capturing bases and killing eachother is awesome. It really 
 lets you do whatever you want. you can be a dick and snipe or drive around in the awesome vehicles 
 and go for kills. you can go for kills alone. you can go for points by capturing bases and killing 
 the enemy along the way. EA did a great job with the online menu. The leaderboards clans quick 
 and custom matches are all really well done. I would highly reccomend this game. Because unlike 
 graw the online isnt a whole bunch of **** camping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  As simple as this game is, it falls right into what they wanted to present. tactical first person 
 shooters wanted who are willing to save the world.
  
  story- plain and simple. you climb up the ranks and destroy the evil that purges this wonderfull 
 earth. 
  
  gameplay- once again very simple. play as a assult man, sniper, stealth, engineerer, or support 
 man. each with his own weapon catagory. its all on how you want to approach the enemy. the transition 
 in play is great. line of sight is used in the game whic hallows you to move from one combadent 
 to another. the bad guys are not that smart but be carefull or you might end up replaying levels 
 because you can't proplery use the line of sight or vehicles.
  
  graphics- decent. that much for me to say. nothing pops up to ones attention. and i have a hd tv. 
 clarity is everything so its great for me.
  
  replay value - its there, weather you want to gain rank or ge tall th eachivments, online or offline 
 you would play this game more than you thought. for one that on has 60 bucks to give i don't recomend. 
 i rented and i wouldn't tell you to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  To put it in a nutshell, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat focuses on multiplayer, and makes that part 
 of the game loads of fun. The campaign has some neat features, like hotswapping, but it's unforgiving 
 difficulty makes you just want to play online for a few more hours.
  
  The core gameplay is solid. While the controls aren't what I would have made them, they work pretty 
 well and make most of what you need to do available without taking your hands off the thumbsticks. 
 In campaign mode, you also get hotswapping, which lets you switch to another character to take 
 out a helo, for example. So technically you can't die, unless all your soldiers die, which sounds 
 like it'd be easy, but is actually hard. So don't get personal with any one character, as they 
 are nameless and expendable. The camaign sets itself up to be fun, but generally isn't.
  
  But the A. I. for enemies is pretty good. If you are on a roof sniping some infantry on the ground, 
 don't be surprised if they climb up and shoot you in the back. Your teammates apparently like to 
 get shot though.
  
  The vehicles are good except they are painfully weak. Not in terms of damage (they take quite a 
 bit of it before exploding) , but in that a tank can't get over a rock without getting stuck. Otherwise 
 the vehicles add another dimension to online matches.
  
  Speaking of online matches, they are extremely fun and almost lag free. While there isn't a traditional 
 deathmatch (just CTF and conquest) you'll have a blast. A good team can do great things in BF2: 
 MC. CTF isn't excactly that great, but conquest will basically tape you to the couch for hours 
 at a time. You have 450 tickets at the start, and whoever loses all their points loses. You keep 
 points by taking over strategic locations on the map, much like The Outfit. If you are struggling 
 and the other team has all the territories, you will lose points until you eventually get defeated. 
 There are actually very little direct confrontations in a given match. Sometimes there'll be a 
 big shootout at a base, but other than that it's little skirmishes. It almost seems like a real 
 war would be. Gaining control of the map with some gun fighting along the way.
  
  The sound rocks (except the annoying announcer) with gun sounds, explosions, and scattered voice 
 acting. 
  
  The graphics are also good, though you can sense some Xbox 1 textures among the Xbox 360 graphical 
 features. It looks very good in 
  HD.
  
  So if you have Xbox Live, give this a try. 
  
  If you don't, try at your own risk but don't say I didn't warn you. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat has many achievements, a decently sized campaign, and the largest 
 multiplayer games (up to 24 people) on the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is fun and features quite a bit of variety. Weapons are exclusive to each class. 
 Classes consist of the bread and butter Assault variety, Special Ops, Medic, Sniper, and Engineer. 
 Assaults are well-balanced, Special Ops like explosives and quick guns, Medics can heal themselves 
 and others and feature a great gun as well as a mortar strike, and Snipers excel in accuracy and 
 have the ability to lock-on and destroy air-borne units. Can't choose one? Never fear, you can 
 "hotswap" between units, just look at a unit and press X after their symbol is highlighted and 
 you fly right to them and can control them. You can use any and all vehicles that aren't occupied 
 by enemies, and the only vehicle I found annoying was the helicopter since it drove oddly, as well 
 as the tank. Multiplayer is for up to 24 people and features Conquest or Capture the Flag, so not 
 much variety.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good graphics, but I can't help thinking they wanted to rush this. If it is snowing 
 outside and you go in a building then turn around, the snow-fall outside will completely dissipate 
 until you go outside again. Otherwise, everything looks fine. My game did start beginning to chug 
 when many enemies were on-screen in solo mode, but you can still deal with it.
  
  Sound: The WORST part of this game. Sound acting is purely horrible and everything from the way 
 they say it to how they say it will want you to mute your volume. If you fail a mission they put 
 you down morally, this prevents you from wanting to go back and win that mission and makes you 
 mad at the game. Both NATO and the Chinese sound terrible on every line, and just like to beat 
 on you when you lose. The background music and weapon sounds are good otherwise.
  
  Value: You can earn lots of achievements, medals, ribbons offline and online. Lots of value but 
 most of it consists of lucky situations you get in or repeating missions to get a higher star rating.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Thought this game would be better and was sorely dissapointed, thankfully I am 
 renting it and didn't buy it. I suggest you rent this game too, it's fun for a rental but not worth 
 the amount of cash it is going for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat has finally made its arrival on Microsoft's Xbox 360. 
  
  It's basically a straight port of the Xbox version, you're gunna have the same exact missions, 
 with some near PC quality graphics. Problems with AI, vehicle control, slow movement, etc. can 
 make single player hard, frustrating, confusing, and difficult to love. 
  
  It's a whole different story when you jump into online. 24-player Xbox Live in the areas on Capture 
 the Flag and Conquest (Territories) . Gunplay in Live is balanced, competative, and fun. 
  
  You know what you're gunna geet when it comes to weapons. You're gunna have your assault rifles, 
 sub-machine guns, sniper rifles, rocket lauchers, and a few shotguns to add some flavor. Vehicles 
 are good too. On just about any map, you can jump into jeeps, tanks, troop transport helicopters, 
 attack choppers. 
  
  This game does great in the "Online" department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iconoclastica
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  YES, YES, YES! Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is now for the Xbox 360, and it lives up to the hype.
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The single player in Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is may be a fun for those looking for just another 
 arcade-style shooter. But which might be a little disappointing for those looking for more than 
 just another arcade-style shooter. HotSwapping" keeps you in the heart of the action in 20 single-player 
 missions. But the AI in Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is the same as the Xbox version that came 
 out last year, so the AI is stupid and clueless. For me it was a disappoints for me because you 
 would think that EA would try to take advantage of the Xbox 360 hardware to take the battlefield 
 experience to the next level. But we all know that the battlefield series is about the online multiplayer, 
 and this game is no exception. Online warfare: Up to 24 players can battle it out on 16 maps including 
 tropical, swampland, desert, and arctic warzones. And their is no lag at all. You have a Huge arsenal: 
 Own the battlefield with 35 land, sea, and air vehicles, four armies, five soldier classes, and 
 55 state-of-the-art weapons. And the Online community include clan support, match analysis, global 
 rankings, and stat tracking. Overall the online multiplayer is highly addictive and will make you 
 forget about the crappy single player.
  
  Graphics 10 /10
  
  Character models and vehicles exhibit a great amount of detail, with full shadows and much sharper 
 texturing all around. Other nice details include persistent bullet-hole decals and spent cartridges. 
 If you man a stationary machine gun for a while, you can look down and see quite a pile of brass 
 building up at your feet. vehicle explosions are much more satisfying now, with fire and smoke 
 effects, as well as large chunks of metal that break off and disappear later via secondary explosions. 
 
  
  sound 10/10
  
  vehicle explosions are much more satisfying now, with fire and smoke effects, as well as large 
 chunks of metal that break off and disappear later via secondary explosions. The weapon sounds 
 seem about the same as the other versions of Modern Combat, which is to say, decent but not totally 
 remarkable. There is quite a bit of radio chatter during battle, too, but it still tends to get 
 very repetitive, and the voice acting for the Chinese side might be a shade offensive, as most 
 of it is delivered in English with a thick, Charlie Chan-style accent. 
  
  Overall this is a great game, it is a MUST buy for the Multiplayer alone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  First off if you want a good single player shooter you have the wrong game. The battle Field series 
 is no known for its great one player experiance but its lage scale multiplayer action. With that 
 said the game is good but there are many horribly unbalanced maps. These are mostly the crappy 
 maps from the original xbox. The new maps are pretty good but helicopters tend to mess up the fun 
 as a skilled pilot can absolutly dominate the battle field. At the same time, some of the time 
 choppers are useless as you will be laser designated as soon as you're in the air. Those are minor 
 issues but in my opinion the worst part of the game is the "artillery strike". In each map the 
 is a console with the ability to send death from above on any location in the battle field. This 
 sounds like a cool concept until you realize that the artillery strike takes no skill to kill 6 
 people or more. There is nothing more annoying than spawning only to be killed by an artillery 
 strike by some ass camping the console. Overall the game is good but there is some major annoyances 
 aswell (The ****ing artillery strike!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a severe let down (not that Im surprised) . Its the same thing as the xbox version with 
 a new coat of paint. The graphics are average, not good not bad. But once you get past that and 
 the sound theres not much left that resembles a game. The gameplay isnt as solid as its PC counterpart 
 or as fun. They chose some gameplay things that dont seem logical or fair, like one hit kills with 
 the sniper and when you kill someone it shows them where you are. Another thing that makes me mad 
 are the shadows, if you can call them that, are moving staircases of crap. It is also glitchy. 
 Humvees are easy to get stuck when trying to drive through debri filled areas. Tanks can also do 
 this too. When you fly in a helicopter up high and look out the world ends. they didnt even make 
 a world outside the immediate level area. SOOO CHEAP! And the fact that EA is buying up all the 
 small developers and releasing crappy sequals tot there good games is making me even madder. Not 
 to mention there rights to the NFL. EA is a bunch of money grubbing ***** *** ****** *******.
 
  
  My prediction.
  "EA Will Be the Death Of Video Gaming"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: giancarlod
Rating: 2.9
Date: May 5, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this game about two weeks ago, IT SUCKS!! If you are serious about gaming do NOT get this 
 game, people online are very stupid, their is no team work and the control settings are horrible. 
 
  
  Graphics: This game has a very strong cinematic touch to it, its too much! 
  Details are not clear enough, even running your XBOX in a top of the line HD TV, With the HD cables!
 
  So is it worth the 60 bucks plus the 40 bucks of the HD cables?
  NEVER, save some money and get a PC running up, you will be amazed with the incredible difference.
 
  
  Have fun!
  
  Danuca 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipzealot
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I've played a bunch of Shooters in my life and this is one of my all time favorites. Many people 
 think the PC version is better but I disagree, because the controls are a lot harder to access 
 on a keyboard. Single player is fun, but the multi-player is a very good time, the clan support 
 is great to, the ranking is way better than the 
  "True Skill" system used in G. R. A. W. or Call of Duty 2. Bottom line This is a must have for any 
 FPS player. If you dont like this game or the multiplayer you arent that much of a gamer in my 
 opinion this is an instant classic in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 3, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game recieved a gigantic facelift compared to the current gen systems. The game sports gorgeous 
 graphics and the best multiplayer on Live next to G. R. A. W.. However, the single player has degraded 
 itself by showing no sympathy towards the players. I had a harder time with this game's single 
 player than I did with G. R. A. W.'s normal and hard mode (which was pretty damn tough) . I always get 
 to the very end but then one guy seems to always survive and hide and kill me right when I was 
 about to finish a mission. Pisses me off. But though I do not get along with the campaign mode, 
 I do get along with the Live multiplayer. This is the best multiplayer Live on the 360 has to offer, 
 alongside of G. R. A. W. The point system as well as the whole Capture the Flag and Territories (which 
 is f**kin sweet) is extraordinary. The mian reason to get this game, as well as the main reason 
 why I bought it is cause of multiplayer. If you plan to buy it for Live, definately pick it up. 
 If you buy it to get a great campaign single player, then you better start playing Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best tactical shooters on the xbox 360. Now that it is $30, this is a definite 
 buy. The campaign is long and challenging and the online multiplayer is great. In the campaign, 
 you dont just play as one guy, if you die u can switch to another guy in ur army. i like this hotswap 
 feature because u can play as the whole army and not just one guy. There are many different fun 
 vehicles to drive. If you dont have online, i wouldnt recommend this game because just the campaign 
 is not worth it, but if you do have online u must buy this game because it is one of the best online 
 games on the 360. After playing this game i cant wait for the new battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game as a single player as i had orginally played BF2 on the PC. This however 
 is nothing alike, but in a bad way. Its so hard on some levels that i have totally lost intrest 
 in it, so i decided to play multiplayer instead.
  
  How GOOD is multiplayer. I have played so many different missions now, from extreeeeemly tactical 
 (where if you move a sniper gets you) to missions that are absolute carnage. You just run and shoot 
 and hope you make it across the street.
  
  It is graphically nice, the shadows could do with some work, but a nice patch should fix that. 
 The sounds are not poppy guns but real sounding rifles with reload noises to match.
  
  Im not a big fan of multiplayer games but this one has got me addicted, you can spend hours playing, 
 not unlock 1 achievment but still feel great when you finally turn it off, especially if you finish 
 after blowing something up :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xEMPORER13x
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: MC for the XBOX360 is possibly the best release for the console so far. The game 
 is very fun and addicting, and will have you playing it for many hours. Here is a brief overview 
 of the key elements in the game:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are still pretty much the same. With some of the stuff looking better than 
 the other versions of the game. There is some glitchiness every now and then, but the graphics 
 are still pretty good. They are not the best, and not really an improvement over the earlier releases 
 of the game. But either way, they are still pretty decent.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are all pretty good. They all fit right in with the game, and can make 
 you feel like you are more in the battle instead of just sitting on a couch and moving your thumbs 
 and index fingers.
  
  Gameplay: The game has alot to offer. The campaign mode is very good. It has been worked on alot 
 since the original releases of the game. If you do not know allready, while in campaign mode, you 
 can switch between your allies and play as them. This can come in very handy when you are trying 
 to keep your allies alive, and they do something dumb, like run right into a group of enemies. 
 You can switch to that character, take out the enemies yourself, and then switch back to whatever 
 character you were using. Besides the story mode, there is also a multiplayer mode. The multiplayer 
 in BF2 is the best part. There are two gametypes: Conquest and CTF. Not many people play the CTF 
 gametype, as most find Conquest much more entertaining. Conquest is a sort of territorial gametype, 
 where you get territories, and protect them from enemies who also want to get them. The territories 
 are also spawn points. So it is also a fight to get the good strategic spawns. In BF2, there are 
 many vehicles. Civillian cars and trucks, boats, military vehicles, snowmobiles, helicopters and 
 tanks are the different types of vehicles. I am not going to go into more detail about the game. 
 If you want more, just read the official gamespot review. 
  
  Summary: This game is the best XBOX360 game to date. It has many hours of fun for players to enjoy. 
 Compared to other XBOX360 games, BF2 is the best, with Oblivion trailing close behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoofMich_69
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 1, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was ok. The campaign mode is pretty fun, b/c you can switch to a different 
 players, and it also can be really challenging. You will have to actually strategize in some missions, 
 istead of just running in there i shooting everything up.
  
  The game also has lots of cool weapons, character classes, and cool vehicles, and using these character 
 classes wisely will help you complete missions.
  
  Now for the online. The online is the biggest dissapointment in the game. The game supports up 
 to 24 players, but often when too many people enter the game, eventually players will be dropped 
 from the server b/c EA servers suck. Also, for some odd reason, you have trouble hear your teammates 
 talk on the mic.. u can see on the screen that htey are talking, but u cant here them most of the 
 time. Also i find that a lot of the shots fired dont register... the biggest thin that angers me 
 is when you shoot some one in the head with your gun (excluding the sniper rifle) it does not kill 
 them.. if this is a modern tactical shooter, and some player models dont have helmets, then how 
 do they not die from headshots. Nothe problem is there is tons of people that cheat and boost to 
 rank up
  
  Some good things about the online play is the ranking system. I think it is a great idea to have 
 all of them ranks. The game also keeps track of some pretty cool stats that you can look at during 
 the menu. The last good thing is there is a good variety of maps, with well placed vehicles and 
 health stations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't agree with the ratings for this game. I think it has been under rated. I think it is a 
 solid game that appeals to many different kinds of people. I think the graphics are great and it 
 is one of the best looking games for XBOX 360. A major upgrade from the PS2 and XBOX versions.
 
  In the single player game you switch back and forth between American Chinese, and South Korean 
 forces. Each country has the same types of soldiers but the guns are different. The story gets 
 a little confusing because you are switching around so much, but that doesn't do much to hurt the 
 game especially if you mainly have the game to play online.
  The online multiplayer is great. It has a similar rank system to GRAW (Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter) . 
 You compete online in ranked games to gain points and ribbons to get a higher rank. It tells you 
 how many points you need however so you are not in the dark about when you are going to level up 
 like in GRAW. It has a 24 person multiplayer. It has a couple of different game types and many 
 maps to play on. The one I have been playing is called Conquest. You have to capture the flags 
 (spawn points) while killing the other team to take down their points to win. I think this is a 
 very fun game.
  Don't ignore this game because of the mediocre reviews. This is a great military shooter and a 
 great game for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drjdh
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Same game as the Original Xbox Version? YES! How could anyone recommend this blatant EA 'money 
 grab'? In short, THIS GAME IS ABSOLUTELY THE SAME (right down to identical positioning on maps 
 for the A. I.!) . Graphically, as a Pro-360 Supporter, I honestly can not tell one bit of difference 
 from the Original Version! I hope EA has made enough 'cash' off this game and the 'abbreviated' 
 Madden-LESS Madden 2006 to support a decent $60 worth Madden '07 and NCAA 2007. I guess spending 
 millions of dollars for exclusive rights to football is likely to equate to subpar overpriced games. 
 As for Battlefield 2, save your money and waste $7.99 in rental fees from your corner Game Rental 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: facelessdrone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  When u first fire the campaign up it puts u strait into the action the controls take about all 
 of 2 minutes to figure out, but a little longer to get a hang of. The ability to switch between 
 players in the heat of battle makes usefull for a suave tactical approach, and is effective when 
 done. Also, the game allows you to play both sides of the war (not by option of course) both the 
 Chinese and American. The graphics and A. I. also make this game far different from its brother 
 on the original xbox. The 360 version allows for HDTV capability (which i may add looks suberb) 
 and the A. I. is alot smarter. Enemies will now find ways to flank you more affectivly and if your 
 not careful you will get blind sighted.
  
  ONLINE: This is where the frosting on the cake is on this game! The online play is superb. You 
 connect to an EA server so you run into minimal lag, note i said minimal. Online is alot more fast 
 paced than in the campaign, but the ability to work together with others online makes this game 
 one of the best fast paced tactical shooters on the 360. There are 16 multyplayer maps to choose 
 from and they are mostly huge. Also (as if you didn't already know) there are a number of different 
 vehicles to choose from.
  
  OVERALL: Though i spend most of my Xbox Live time on G. R. A. W. this was a delightfull and satisfying 
 change of pace, this game is a superb tactical online shooter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 2, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is not really good at all. i thought it would be a very good game but i'm glad i rented 
 it first. the first couple of levels are just ok, its kind of cool to go around and swap players 
 but its not a fun as it looks. i will say that the graphics were pretty good but graphics did not 
 do much. its a hard game in some points and yes hard is good... to an extent, playing a level over 
 200 times is not that fun. over all this game did not go to good with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donoghu
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll explain my point of view:
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  Like all Battlefield, the gameplay is simple... On multiplayer, it's some sort of "search and destroy" 
 and "Team Death Match" between enemies ... The concept is good... the controls are as good... There 
 are common cheater on multiplayer... but there are in every games... Why I gave 5 is simple... 
 the one player campagne... The most bored campagne I ever played since the game cube has gone out 
 in stores... Well, to put it simple, EA has never evolved in his AI (Artificial Intelligence) combat 
 concepts... A computer that shoot like sniper with heavy gunnery and tanks, that can see throught 
 walls and even shoot with the precision of the most talented cheaters (From 100 meters, it can shoot 
 a RPG Rockets right into a 5"X6" windows witth a acuracy of 85%...) On the other hand, the Bots 
 that serve as you allies are dump and stupid as ever... They can't kill a enemy at 5 meters in 
 front of them even by shooting a full clip... (Oil Station is the best exemple since it's got parachuted 
 men and is really small...) , they go where, tacticaly, there is most chance to be shot (Exemple: 
 In the middle of the base, where all can shoot at will on it) and stop it with moving it until 
 the mission is up to the next stage... Another bad thing is how the "unlocking" is made for guns... 
 some of them have special items attached on them (Grenade launcher for exemple) , but they will 
 be usable only when you will have enought stars (EVEN IF IT IS ON THE DAMN GUN WHEN YOU USE IT 
 BEFORE HAVING THE REQUIRED STARS!!!) Well... there is much more bad things about the gameplay... 
 but I have passed on the most big one...
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  I won't hide that this BF is the best BF in the graphics until now... (We'll see when 2142 will 
 go out :-P) The blurs and lights effects is awsome! Flash grenades and smoke do as good too! Explosion 
 are realistics and bullets hit make it lot good to look after a long exchange of fire between two 
 groups...
  
  Sound: 9/10
  I have nothing to say about the sounds... They are well represented et are used at it maximum... 
 But there is one thing that it miss... Musics! It fully empty of good musics... But since it is 
 a personnal raison, I only remove 1 point for it...
  
  Value: 6/10
  The fact of all the problems on the campagne remove at least 3 points on its value... It is sad, 
 but fully comprehensible since this is the half of the game itself... On the other hand, the multiplayer 
 is good to play and got good points in it... The problem of cheaters (and so the possibility and 
 accessibility to cheat is a bad thing in this game) remove 1 point from its value...
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 6/10
  Since the campagne is as good as the campagne of BF1 without any expansions... 
 (In other word: clueless and bumb at it best) My love for this game went down dramaticaly... But, 
 at least, there are some good levels where AI can't do unusual and irrealistic things... and the 
 multiplayer is a good thing too... but the fact of paying for the best of a game is a really sad 
 thing... so it go a passable but not famous note of 6 for my personnal feelings about this game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tefdesign
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  This is a game of should have, could have, not quite. And if you have played the PC version, you 
 might wan't to avoid this one..
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  A FPS, like every other one the market, with the exception of the fact you can drive/pilot vehicles. 
 This keeps the game from becoming mundane and stale. It also brings a level of satisfaction when 
 you are in a vehicle and racking up the kills.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The character, weapon, and vehicle models are well done, and look extremely authentic compared 
 to their real world counterparts. The surrounding environments however, get a little bland at time. 
 There is also some "fog" when it comes to distances.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Decent sounds, nothing spectacular, although I do like the how the languages change depending on 
 what faction you are on. A good "B" movie when it comes to the sounds.
  
  VALUE:
  
  The singleplayer campaign is chopped up, and it feels like you are just moving along and shooting 
 things in different locations. The formula used in GRAW was much better. This game is all about 
 playing online. You can easily spend 20 hours online before you know it.
  
  TILT:
  
  I have never seen a game with so many glitches and cheats online. It shows to me, that game developers 
 did not care about the fine tuning of this game. But, if you can players that play like you, the 
 game is very fun.
  
  Thanks for taking the time to read my review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  I never played the Xbox or Ps2 version of this game so I can't comment on the similarities.
  
  With what I've played thus far (more than half the single player and tons of multiplayer) , 
 I can already say this is the best shooter on Xbox 360 (and i've played them all) . There's a lot 
 of team strategy required, more so than the other shooters for the console. 
  
  graphically, the game isn't the best on the console... but far from the worest. The visuals still 
 look awesome, pardon the few bad textures. The audio is amazing, you can hear and feel the battles 
 from a distance... and when you're right in a fight, its freakishly real.
  
  I still dont understand the complaints about the single player. I find it very enjoyable, although 
 tough at times. It gives the player a chance to understand the games mechanics and strategy options, 
 rather than running on the battle field and shooting anything in its path. 
  
  The multiplayer never lags and so much is happening, and the maps are HUGE. There are TONS of vechiles 
 are drive or take the gunner, so your options are very open. there is a lot of depth involved in 
 the game online, with regards to rankings and scoreboards. 
  
  Overall, I am more than pleased with this game. The demo didn't leave me interested, but a friend 
 of mine made it aware that the demo sucked compared to the retail version... and he was right. The 
 other maps are better, and playing Ranked is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I have played both the Xbox version and the Xbox 360 version. Both are very similar, but the 360 
 version really shines in the graphics department. The game play is excellent in this game and has 
 infinite replayability. The multi-player mode has a excellent player matching setup and easy to 
 find a good variety of maps to play in. Unfortunately, this game only has 2 game types, CTF and 
 Conquest. 
  
  This game is better then the PC version and plays smooth online. Only occassionaly do I have issues 
 with lag.
  
  Only reason I didn't give this game a full 10 was b/c the sound clips of human speakers are overwhelmingly 
 loud and annoying at times. I believe there are still a few bugs they are supposed to be working 
 out as well. Just hope they lower the volume on the voice clips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crunchy12489
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Let's get down to the point...
  
  What the hell? 7.5? Someone is blind or out of their mind. This is HIGHLY UNDER RATED!
  
  Graphics: 
 Simply amazing on the X360, and FPS is VERY stable for such good graphics. I am still confused 
 on how the 360 runs this game so well online with no FPS spikes or shortage? Anyway, this game 
 is magnificently developed.
  
  Sound: Not that bad, but it's kind of muted when other players shoot at you. You can barely hear 
 it and when you are hit, you are not sure of where it comes from (unless indicated by the red direction 
 arrows.)
  
  Visuals and Frame Rate: The character models are VERY detailed and the frame rate is extremely 
 stable. The only time when it lags barely, is when helicopters spam like 4 tanks lined up together 
 and they blow up simultaneously.
  
  Gameplay: The singleplayer is extremely hard and challenging. I haven't got too far into the singleplayer. 
 But I will tell you this, the online play of BF2MC is REVOLUTIONARY. This is the best 360 game 
 when it comes to just all out fun and a "playground" style.
  
  Value: Well as sad as it is, they didn't add a non-online multiplayer version. It would have been 
 fun to have a 2 on 2 all out player battle with A. I. as slot fill ups. But hey, the online play, 
 support, and features definately over-shadow this con.
  
  Overall Opinion: If you have XBOX Live, you need to get this. If not, just rent this. It's only 
 one player, so don't waste your time. You are missing out on all of the fun without xbox live! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venator117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I find it hard to understand how Gamespot can only give this game a 7.5 when GRAW was given a 9.2! 
 How many vehicles can you drive in GRAW? Zero. How many aircraft can you fly in GRAW? Zero. In 
 my opinion there is no competition here. BF2 wins hands down. Online play is fast, fun and extremely 
 addicting. Maps are huge and give you many options depending on specialty you choose. If you are 
 lucky enough to be in a clan or join a team that actually communicates, you'll dominate the other 
 side. I've played both the PC version and the 360 version and enjoyed both, but I really prefer 
 the 360 version. HD graphics and sound are awesome on a 55' widescreen TV with surround sound! 
 
  
  On the negative side, you can only play one player at a time. No split screen option as in GRAW. 
 While you have the ability to set-up online Clan games, you must join one of the existing servers 
 otherwise. In other words, you can't set-up a private game for just you and your friends (although 
 this might be possible in Clan mode, but I'm not sure.) .
  
  Bottom line, if you like military shooters this is a must have 360 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halochampian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat for the Xbox 360 was a game that I have always been wanting to get, 
 for the online experience. For the most part its ok but when you start to dig in, you'll see, its 
 not not the greatest FPS shooter out there.
  
  Battlefield 2's single player experience puts you playing 20 missions that you take turns playing 
 as either the US or the Chinese. The cool thing about the single player is the player swapping. 
 It allows you to control any soldier on your side of the battlefield. If you want to control that 
 helicopter your teammate is flying, take his body and now its yours. When you die, you will control 
 another soldier. Its really nice and you'll need it because the team AI is really bad. The AI in 
 this game is wowingly stupid. They waste a whole clip on a guy a foot way, and still never touches 
 him. "GOOD JOB GUY, YOU REALLY SHOWED HIM." The recon mission that took me forever to complete 
 would not have taken so long if my recon chopper wouldn't like running into my other choppers. 
 The enemy AI isn't any better. It seems that there will be like 10 of my teammates yet the enemy 
 will ALWAYS go after me. It wouldn't be so bad if my teammates helped out, but like I said before, 
 they don't. Now for the good part, the game does a good thing with changing up the different types 
 of missions you'll be doing. All out foot combat; tank combat; sniping mission; helicopter missions; 
 water based; recon. Yea, thats fun. whats really bad is the vehicle controls, but as you play, 
 you'll get use to it. The overall single player is ehh mediocre.
  
  Now the Graphics in this game are, to be truthful, some of the worst for next gen. It really does 
 just look like a really nice xbox game. The jaggies, the weird shawdowing and environment just 
 looks dull. The character models look pretty nice though and the vehicles weren't so bad. The whole 
 game just does not wow you like some of the other games that are on the system at this time. So 
 the graphics really are kind of ehhh.
  
  The sound in this game isn't really bad at all. When I have my Dolby 5.1 working, it kinda does 
 sound like a "battlefield". The sounds of the guns by themselves dont sound extra powerful but 
 put a bunch together and you have an orchestra. The vehicles have some really nice sounds, like 
 the helicopter really does sound like one. The missiles sound like missiles and explosions sound 
 somewhat nice. The singleplayer radio chatter, while there is a lot, will get very repetitive and 
 the Chinese acting makes you burst out laughing. so overall, the sound is decent.
  
  The mutiplayer in this game is where all the value of this game pays off. The 24 player capabilities 
 really pay off because it really feels like a battlefield when playing it. Having 16 maps and tons 
 of vehicles to choose from, it really is just good ol' fun. Having CTF and the very popular Conquest 
 mode that make you get spawn points in order for their spawn count go down to zero. The chaos in 
 this game is what makes it so fun. From parachueting from a heli to calling a artillery strike 
 on the enemy's base, its all gonna be fun. This is what saves the game from being a total failure.
 
  
  So Battlefield 2 isn't a really bad game, it just has the online to dig it out of the gutter. If 
 you like some fun online chaos fun, maybe you should rent it and see how you like it. You may buy 
 it just to play online. Thats really the only reason i play mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatkidfromnj
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  But I was really hoping for a game much more like the PC version, with larger maps, more character 
 classes, and more vehicles including jets. What makes me upset is that if there was ever a time 
 to show console gamers the "next generation" it would be by doing what I described above. Oh and 
 they should at least have upped the players from 24 to at the very least 32. EA and DICE should 
 really have taken the time to put out a game worthy of the title next generation and not creating 
 a cheaper prettier rehash of what could have been. I really wanted this to be the game to show 
 console players what they where missing and now what was possible on their shiny new 400$ boxes. 
 But who knows maybe they will learn their lessons and come out with the Battlefield 2 that people 
 should be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nnoga
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Here my brothers is another prime example of the "360 port over blues" (insert sad harmonica melody) 
 I can't help but to wonder in amazement how EA is getting away with this, oh wait they're EA! They 
 are content to give empty, uninnovative, lifeless carry-overs from last generation. The only difference 
 would be the new shiny technical overhaul of the visuals. I don't know about you but I didn't fork 
 over 500 bucks of my hard earned money to buy 360 so I could play the same games over again with 
 better visuals. Battlefeild 2 MC is a testiment to lazy development if I've ever seen one. I expected 
 so much more from DICE, and I don't think What I had in mind was too much to ask. \
  
  When I purchased the PC version a year ago. I recieved with my purchase in all honestly a Pure, 
 focused, well disigned multiplayer game. With very deep tratigical elements that were hard to learn 
 at first, but very enjoyable with experience. Squads, commanders, waypoints, orders, radio's (for 
 which to spot enemy's, request support and supply's) and a point system that rewarded you for almost 
 everything you did (not just for capturing flags and killing enemies) etc.. It really felt like 
 all out war at its best.
  
  Battlefield 2 MC, shares almost nothing with its PC cousin other than its setting. It is heavily 
 striped down and streamlined and every way. There are no; squads, no commanders, no radio commands, 
 No Jets?!, no medic class and no support class (these have combined into one class called support. 
 This is the most unrealistic and silly class I've seen. Think about it,
  A medic running around with a belt-fed machinegun ha!. This version of Battlefield 2 is like comparing 
 a fisher price Big Wheels to Semi-truck. Its just doesn't the mustard for us real gamers looking 
 for some tactical action.
  Run and gun, run and gun, and run and gun some more thats all this is good for. The sad thing about 
 this.......... this is the toted almighty XBOX 360! Your tellin me that the 360 is incapable of 
 giving me the full and correct way of experiencing Battlefield 2. I doubt this is true, because 
 I have played Elders scrolls 4 Oblivion. I know what this system is capable of. And this is sorry 
 excuse to charge me 60 bucks. Shame on you EA and Dice. I feel like I baught a NIce car but it 
 didn't come with any seats, steering wheel nor engine. 
  
  Gameplay: Horrible hit detection, Bugs-a-plenty, no kind of tools or game elements to let you plan 
 stragagies. no squads, no commanders, no radio commands, No Jets?!, no medic class and no support 
 class. I have had fun playing this game though, but I get angry and frustrated way to often dealing 
 with the lousy hit detection and random bugs.
  
  Graphics: eehh, They are pretty, but you can tell that they just slapped a new coat of paint on 
 some old technology. Nothing "next gen about it" whatever that has come to mean. Explosions are 
 quick puffs of smoke and fire with some blure effects thrown on top. The character models are of 
 good poly count and trexturing and the animations are good. The world textures are very low resolution 
 with some bump and mip mapping thrown in not enough though to cover up the sub-par textures. 
 
  
  Sound: Nothing special about the sound here. The music is generic crap. The sounds effects are 
 laughable. The Announcer is turned up to unbearable level of volume that the volume slider in the 
 options is almost unable to fix. If it wasn't for the 5.1 surround sound, there would be nothing 
 to to salvage here.
  
  Value: The only thing I have to base the value on would be the original PC game. When I do this 
 I really can not find anything worth the ticket price here. When I know what all I am missing from 
 the original I get really angry that I purchased this game at all. EA charges me 10 dollars more 
 for a game that costs 50 dollars on the pc and it offers me 1/4 of the features. Like I said before 
 guys, EA and Dice should be ashamed of themselves.
  
  Save your Money! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Its not unlikely for one to associate Battlefield as a great PC first-person shooting series. 
 The Battlefield games have been strictly PC titles for awhile, but thats changed with Battlefield 
 2: Modern Combat, which is available for the Xbox, PS2 and now the Xbox 360. While Modern Combat 
 will certainly grab the attention of many gamers who havent gotten to experience Battlefield in 
 the past, there really isnt anything worth getting excited over in the game. 
  
  In the single-player mode, the game takes place during a fictional and contemporary war between 
 the US and China. In that sense, there really isnt much story to the game other than the fact 
 that youre battling in a non-existent war. Although, one touch to the games story is that youll 
 get the viewpoint of both the American and Chinese sides with the TV spots which continuously come 
 up between the missions. Youll also get to assume the role of both Americans and Chinese soldiers 
 in the campaign. While this may sound kind of cool at first, there really isnt much difference 
 between the missions of each side and you wont really care about what side youre on. 
  
  But thats nothing when compared to how Modern Combats missions pan out. Youre missions usually 
 involve you attempting to overrun bases, take out enemy reinforcements, infiltrate armories and 
 so forth. While this may sound tolerable, the game executes these missions horribly due to the 
 very arcade-like feel and some frustratingly tough moments when having to complete your objective. 
 Another problem with the missions has to do with the enemy AI, which is tough as nails and will 
 constantly shoot you down like youre nothing. This is where the games feature known as Hot-Swapping 
 comes into play. 
  
  How this works is that while battling against enemy soldiers, you can look at a comrade, press 
 a button and take control of him. For example, if you have an assault rifle and spot a tank that 
 you need to take out and see a nearby comrade with a rocket launcher, you can take control of him 
 and use his rocket launcher to destroy the tank. Its pretty neat at first but then its appeal 
 starts to wear off and it actually gets rather disorienting. Also, whenever you die youll be Hot-Swapped 
 to a nearby comrade so that you can keep pushing on, so dying isnt much of a misfortune in the 
 game.
  
  Another touch to Modern Combat is the vehicles. There are quite few, which range from tanks, combat 
 hummers and even choppers. While its easy to get excited over the fact that you can pilot a helicopter, 
 it really isnt that big a deal that they are in the game. Sure, theyre an easy way to traverse 
 the maps, but theyre incredibly hard to control and even the tanks and hummers require some time 
 to get used to. So despite the fact that the game has vehicles, they just arent that fun to use 
 most of the time and youll usually find it better to just walk around on-foot. 
  
  As you may have guessed, the games single-player isnt worth receiving any real praise at all. 
 Really the only reason youd want to drop by is to get used to how the slightly odd controls and 
 how the game plays. Battlefields multiplayer, on the other hand, is much more tolerable than the 
 games horrendous single-player. The game has support for twenty-four people online and the game 
 runs generally smooth. However, unlike the single-player, you cant use the Hot-Swapping feature 
 in multiplayer and the maps are just too large. Youll often find yourself exploring the maps rather 
 than getting in on the action. This is really a shame because when it comes to action, the game 
 can be quite fun and exciting at times. But as I said, the maps are too big to allot this action 
 to be experienced all the time. Another problem with the games online multiplayer is that its 
 limited to two modes: Conquest and Capture the Flag. CTF requires no introduction and can speak 
 for itself. With Conquest, you must capture enemy spawn points until the other team runs out of 
 places to respawn, so it works a lot like Halo 2s Territories mode and like Star Wars Battlefront. 
 Oh, and the game has no split-screen, so if you dont have Xbox Live, then youre better off just 
 passing on this title, itll save you a lot of frustration.
  
  As far as graphics are concerned, Modern Combat on the Xbox 360 looks pretty good. With the 360 
 version, youll notice that the game; especially the weapons look much sharper and more detailed 
 than the current-gen versions. Many of the weapons are rendered very nicely and look just about 
 as good as Perfect Dark Zeros weapon models-which are very realistic. But there are some weapons 
 in the game that do look rather bland and roughly detailed such as the shotguns and sniper rifles. 
 With the environments, Battlefield looks good, but nothing worthy of much praise. There are little 
 to no pop-ups and the game does have some surprisingly large maps, but the environmental detail 
 isnt too sharp. The buildings, walls and streets in the game are detailed fairly well, but it 
 barely looks better than a high-res Xbox game. On a more positive note, theres rarely any framerate 
 drops in the game and lag is barely present in the game, even with the large maps and large player 
 count online.
  
  The games sound and audio is a bag of mixed results. On one hand, some of the weapons sound good 
 and fairly accurate; although there is some that sound too silent for their own good such as the 
 assault rifles. The sound of explosions and vehicle noises are also pretty good and are where the 
 games audio shines the most. However, the voiceovers in the games campaign, particularly the 
 Chinese, are extremely annoying. So annoying, that itll be enough for you to say Screw the achievement 
 points, Im rather play some little kid online rant on about nothing. 
  
  So when it comes down to it, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat on the 360 isnt much more than an average 
 squad-based first-person shooter. The game does have good graphics, large maps, and support for 
 plenty of players online, but there are too many flaws that keep if from being a better game. If 
 you have Xbox Live, then you may want to check this title out, especially if you havent gotten 
 to experience Battlefield yet. However, if you dont have Xbox Live or have already got a PC that 
 can run Battlefield 2-which is quite different from this version, then youre best skipping this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greg3000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out on the original xbox my friend and I couldn't wait to get it. My 
 friend had played all the previous versions on the PC and was really hyped over it. When it came 
 out he bought one game and I bought BF2, figuring we'd trade after we beat our own game. I played 
 the campaign the first level gave you a huge adrenaline rush, but after that, the flaws just stuck 
 out like crazy. I think the most annoying thing is that you shoot an enemy with like two shots 
 from an smg and his body goes reeling back like ten feet, but it takes an entire enemy clip to 
 take you down. Another glaring flaw is that enemies just spawn out of no where. You'll clear an 
 alley, take up a defensive position in it, and suddenly ur shot in the back. To top it off you 
 can tell the developers watched cheesy war movies when developing it. Phrases like, "We are pinned 
 down, we cannot move," by some British sounding voice is CONSTANTLY heard over your "radio." It's 
 so stupid cuz you could have all your teammates behind you, safe and sound, when suddenly you'll 
 hear shooting off in the distance and that phrase pops up. I'd give the campaign a mid five.
  
  But I have some good news. The multipler is absolutely superb. If you get a team that knows 
 what their doing (and you usually do) its a blast to play. There's not one map I don't like, they're 
 all awesome, well planned, enormous maps. The only problem you will run into is getting into a 
 group that plays the same level constantly. But you'll never be waiting around for a game to start, 
 there's always over a hundred games going on at once. I'd give the multipler a high eight, cuz 
 its not always realistic, the parachte thingy being the biggest of that type of flaw.
  
  The classes are pretty even. There's usually not a huge number of one class and like one or two 
 of another. Each one can carry their own. In the reviews, they claim the game has an arcade feel. 
 The campaign DOES have an arcade feel, but the multipler is definitely tactical. Its so annoying 
 when I wanna talk about the game and my friends don't claiming, "Gamespot gave the game a 7. somethin" 
 yes they did, in fact they were being generous, but they gave the score to the campaign. they spent 
 like one paragraoh on the multipler, which, again, is excellent.
  
  Overall, I'd say get this game if you havent played the PC game alot. It's true you "won't know 
 what your missing" but ignorance is bliss. basically you'll get addicted to either the PC or the 
 Xbox version. if you play both, ull probably side with the PC, but if you havent played either 
 one, their both great. you really feel like your contributing to the team on Live, and if you communicate, 
 you'll find it a very experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shady555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  One of the funnest multiplayer games out. Graphics are not up to 360 standards, but not bad nonetheless. 
 Single player is quite difficult, and somewhat boring. Mulitplayer is what makes this game worthwhile, 
 but I still think it's behind Ghost Recon on all levels. The only thing that beats out G. R. is 
 the ability to fly choppers, drive tanks and virtually every vehicle you can think of. All in all, 
 if you have xbox live, you should dish out the 60 bucks, but if aren't playing online, it's really 
 only worth a rent. If you have never played ghost recon, and are trying to decide between the two..... don't 
 be silly...... GHOST RECON!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: injuredclown92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun and addicting, but has a LOT of obvious flaws and stupid points.
  
  THE GOOD POINTS:
  This game has vehicles, hotswapping, great multiplayer, a fun ranking system, 
 upgrades, many weapons and accesories.
  
  THE BAD POINTS: 
  Tanks can get stuck on tiny barrels, fences, lightposts etc., dissapointing graphic shadows, other 
 flaws such as bodies sticking through walls. The game's multiplayer has many "boosters" that just 
 use glitches to increase their ranks and if you accidentaly kill a teammate, then they never stop 
 killing you, and they kill you if you get close to the helicopter respawn. The missions and most 
 vehicles are exactly the same to the first game on the Xbox, but if you don't have that then there 
 is no problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onesixteen
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 22, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Battlefield 2 on my computer for quite some time. Ever since hearing it would 
 come for my x360 I've been anxiously waiting. Last saturday I got my hands on it, and me and my 
 brother have been busting caps on xbox live every day since. Although its Battlefield 2 its still 
 very different from the PC version of the game, hence the Modern Combat difference in the title 
 name.
  
  The graphics is beautifull. In my opinion its slightly better than the PC version. Especially if 
 you look at the rendering of the weapons. I've got a beefy computer setup as well, but theres something 
 about the graphics on the Xbox that makes it shine a little bit more. It's defenitly next-gen :)
 
  
  I've only played a few singleplayer missions. I liked the "switching-player-effect". Theres a lot 
 of action, which sometimes result in me not knowing excatly whats going on. But its great fun.
 
  
  The game really shines when it comes to multiplayer. You got 24 players abality on Xbox Live. It's 
 not 64 like on the PC, but still very intense. The level/rank system is very addictive. Theres 
 lots of medals and ribbons and so many ranks. Hopefully I'll be a Five-Star-General by the summer. 
 
  
  Setting up or joining an online game is easy and theres lots of players from all over the world. 
 All you have to do to get into the action is press Quick Match on Xbox Live and your off to fight. 
 
  
  You also have Clan capabilities built into the game. Much like what we did see in Halo 2 for Xbox. 
 I've not yet tried this but it looks interesting.
  
  Theres lots of statistics and leaderboards for just about anything in the game. I honestly think 
 I play a lot, but looking at those leaderboards makes me rethink that notion. 
  
  Well, enough ranting about this great game. I'd better head onto to the Battlefield for more great 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Yes, this is the exact same game as the xbox version. But I played the heck out of that version, 
 too. Even if the game is $60, I figure each game will cost me a penny, I play it so much... so for 
 me, the value is very high.
  
  The single player mode is of no value to me -- it's all about the multiplayer live play. I shelved 
 my xbox, so I needed to keep the BF2 fun coming, and this is well worth it. 
  
  If you've never played BF2, it will take you 10 games to get the hang of things and make some kills, 
 even if you are a FPS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  I really like this game, especially on Xbox live. My only complaint is that there is no TRUE multiplayer. 
 By true, I am referring to splitscreen and system link. How can you make a massively multiplayer 
 game without those two capabilities? I was very disappointed when I heard that was the case but 
 the game is very fun nonetheless.
  
  Graphics: Look good overall. Could have been better in some areas but, not much to complain about.
 
  
  Gameplay: Very solid and fun. Love the physics when people get shot while running or hit with a 
 missle.
  
  Audio: Spot on. Only gripe is that it can be annoying when people take over a flag because it has 
 to be announced by an annoying voice.
  
  Overall, great game that should be at least rented. If you play on Live a lot, it's a solid buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat has it's ups and downs. The game is overall done very well. But there 
 are some flaws in it that really irk me! The communication system is really screwy right now, and 
 sometimes you will go under things ( buildings, bridges, etc.) and here this loud screech! As I 
 have heard though, EA is already on it's way with the patch for these problems. 
  
  The game is EXACTALLY like the XBOX version, just with enhanced graphics.
  
  Here is MY overview:
 
  
  Gameplay - The single player's AI is a little too smart, and the Online is what makes this game! 
 8/10.
  
  Graphics - They are mind blowing! A huge step-up from the XBOX version. 9/10.
  
  Sound - There is the mic problems, and there is the loud screeching, other than that, AMAZING! 
 8/10.
  
  If you have XBOX live and you want something else, pick up this game. If you don't have xbox live, 
 or your internet is down, this is not a game to have. The single player is TOO boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunmetalman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 on the 360 doen't offer anything that the previous version on the Xbox didn't offer 
 execpt better graphics. The campaign missions are exactly the same as last time in the same order. 
 The only changes (which I'm not exactly sure about) in the game I noticed were more maps online 
 and the enemies in the single player campaign are slighly smarter and harder to kill. This game 
 borders between renting it or buying it because for people who purchased it on the Xbox might not 
 want to spend an extra $60 for better graphics. However, players who have not played or purchased 
 BF2 yet should consider buying either the 360 version or the PC version (purchase the PC version 
 if you have a good PC) . If you already have the Xbox version you might want to rent it or just 
 ignore it altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good even if you dont have xbox live, but its supurb if you do have it. The 
 graphics are simply stunning, the lighting effects are the best bit about the graphics but still 
 the animations and the detail are simply stunning. The sound effects for the game are awsome, it 
 sounds like your acctually in the middle of the war weather your in russia or iraq. The gameplay 
 for the single player is much faster and more furious but id say if you have xbox live you will 
 not be playing much of the camplaign. The weapons are awsome and there are 5 different classes 
 to play as, as well as bonus weapons such as a laster target air strike and also a rocket launcher. 
 Over all i would say if you have live get it, if you dont give it a rent to make sure you like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikido7thdan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Battflefield 2 modern combat is the 360 port of Battlefield 2 for the PC. I personally have enjoyed 
 this game with the online play it great even if I do get killed constantly. The single player is 
 difficult due to the fact that it forces you to follow a certain pattern only and then you are 
 able to continue. This is really apparent in the sniper levels. But I really have no complaints 
 about this game, I have BF2 for the PC and if you compare the two I think the single player is 
 an added bonus. The controls on the 360 are good to respond and their hasnt been really any bad 
 lag since I have been playing. Overall I really enjoy this game and would recommend it to anyone 
 that enjoys FPS games, online play, and military battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spragoo52
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Exactly what my title says. Get this for the multiplayer. The single player wouldn't be bad if 
 the enemy couldn't hit moving nickles at 500 yards. It's a load of crap and it's frustrating. Somehow 
 they can see you miles away and hit you from the same distance. The multi is good becuase there's 
 no BS in it like the single player. It's worth the 60 bucks for the multi when you get your friends 
 in there and play smart. It's worthless for the single. You'll get aggrevated and waste your time 
 unless you're a caveman dedicated to the game. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good. I think GRAW has it beat graphically, but it's not bad. It controls 
 well. The helicopters are a bit strange to fly at once, but they're simple to get the hang of. 
 Like I said, the single is retarded since the enemy can hit you anywhere at anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaslum
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  I have had BF2 on the original Xbox, the PC and now the 360. The level design and gameplay is great 
 on the PC but the graphics engine on the 360 is way better than the PC. The game is essentially 
 a port of the older xbox version with a huge boost in graphics. The single player on the old xbox 
 was admittedly crap but it is quite fun and action packed on the 360. I really liked every level 
 except the last one when enemies spawn out of nowhere constantly. 
  
  The sound is great (really pisses off my wife) . Single Player is great and action packed too. 
 
  
  And of course your main reason for getting this game should be the Xbox Live playability which 
 is ridiculously fun and entertaining... not to mention extremely addictive! Definitely the best 
 online title since Halo 2. 
  
  -Chas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-tronicum
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  YEEESSSSSS, BATTLEFIELD HAS ARRIVED ON THE GREAT 360!!!!
  
  11 Words: The BEST Multiplayer First Person Shooter ive seen on a Console!!!
  Graphics are Incredible!! And 
 you have to think how BIG are the Maps!!!
  And its always running Smoothly!!
  Single Player o. K. Can be better when you think in Battlefield PC, but it doesnt matter, Battlefield 
 is a Multiplayer Game, we all know that, and on this side, Battlefield is Probably the BEST!!!!!
 
  Its Amazing and Easy to Control the Vehicles, especially the Helicopters, simply the BEST!!
  This game should have at least gotten rated the same as BF2 on the PC from gamespot, which was 
 a 9.2 Don't let other people and game sites discourage you from getting this game.
  And we need YOU, to Play on XBOX Live with our Clans!!!!!! WE NEED NEW ENEMYS!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJustin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  At first I played single player when I picked this game up. Single player was ok but it lacked 
 any real fun play. Once I was done playing singleplayer for about an hour I tried multiplayer. 
 Wow! I like this one better than the computer one! The computer one had bad load times and decent 
 graphics with basically no environmental interaction. The 360 version has great environmental interaction 
 with the shells from your gun staying there the entire round and chunks of wall staying when the 
 walls get hit.
  
  The sound and graphics are pretty nice. Nothing too special but it has good draw distance and blur 
 effects. The sound seems like a normal game with the exception to the announcer which is pretty 
 darn loud, but thats not a big deal at all.
  
  All in all this game may not be a must have for the 360, but you should at least play it if you 
 are a FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: POOPITRE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  At long last, Battlefield 2 hits the xbox 360. Battlefield fands rejoice in the wonder that is 
 the game-type "conquest"
  
  As you know, Battlefield was scheduled to be released near the launch of the xbox 360, unfortunatley 
 it was delayed. But now it is out. And personally I'm loving it.
  
  The First thing i noticed when i first turned on battlefield 2, was that there was no offline multiplayer. 
 This was a disapointment, but then again, most people just play with their friends online now-a-days. 
 so i didnt fret over it too much.
  
  What i liked though, in modern combat, is that the Single Player Missions actually had a storyline 
 to them, instead of jut random maps, that you could do the same thing in free-play mode. You start 
 off as an american unit, and follow objectives and such, then youll find yourself playing as the 
 chinese, then back the the americans, and such. It has a nice timing, letting you play just enough 
 of each faction without getting tired of it.
  
  Another thing that is pretty cool in Modern combat is the new hot-swap feature, this way, you can 
 control all the troops in the battlefield at any time. Let me explain how this feature works. Lets 
 say you see a friendly soldier maybe 30 yards right in front of you, you can simply press the x 
 button, and the camera will do some swirly dizzy transatction, and youll suddenly find yourself 
 as the character you were just looking at a few seconds ago. This is very useful, and youll get 
 out of many tight situations with this feature. Lets say, you were a sniper, and you saw an enemy 
 tank pop up right in front of you, and you see an engineer off not too far. You can simply press 
 the x button, take control of the engineer, and blow up the tank, without dieing whatsoever. Although 
 you cannot use this in multiplayer, it is pretty cool in single player.
  
  One thing i also noticed is the in-ability to bring guests online in a server with you. I mean 
 i pluged in 2 controllers, press the start button on the second controller, and everything. If 
 you can bring a guest online, im yet to see it. And i've even asked the boards (and they dont know 
 either.)
  
  One thing that bugged me about battlefield 2 is the fact that single player can get real hard sometimes. 
 Youll find yourself restarting missions often, consulting the forums/faq's very very often. But 
 finally when you beat the game, youll realize you can still continue. Battle field 2 has this cool 
 feature where you can upgrade and get new weapons for your troops as you beat more and more missions. 
 And as you do this, these hard missions can sometimes get quite a bit easier. But after you get 
 every gun, and upgrade all of them, you really dont have much else to do with singleplayer. You 
 can replay the missions AGAIN, but noone with a healthy attension span can do this effectivley.
 
  
  I'm glad, in a way, that They delayed this game to get rid of a few bugs. The game runs real smoothe, 
 with barley any glitches. But there are some repetative glitches that you will notice as you play 
 this game. Sometimes if you get exploded or shot at alot, youll notice that one of your arms is 
 grotesquely twisted. It doesnt look like it actually got twisted from the damage you took, its 
 a rag doll glitch. Also lots of people complain that "the shadows look really bad" Well personally, 
 i really didnt notice it at all. I think the shadows look fine to tell you the truth. But sometimes 
 it isnt very hard to count the oversized pixels on a shadow of a building or something. But if 
 your the type of person to dwell upon the shadows of a game, then you really need to get a life, 
 seriously.
  
  Overall i really enjoyed the online multiplayer quite a bit. I love the multiplayer conquest-esque 
 games. Although you can only hold 24 people per server, you really wont notice it at all. The maps 
 seem just as dense as the maps in BF2 for the PC. And im not saying the maps are smaller. They're 
 quite big.
  
  But back to the online multiplayer. Youll have a fun time loading up dual blackhawk helicopters 
 full of troops, and flying them over the enemy base, and watching them all parachute down. It really 
 seems realistic. Personally i think it's very 1337 to parachute (by yourself.) into an enemy base 
 armed with only a knife, a silenced SMG, and some c4. (and also a flash bang grenade, but i dont 
 use that much.) You can easily plant c4 on enemy vehicles, and wait for them to enter them, and 
 as soon as they get in, set off the charges. Youll find yourself feeling very victorious after 
 such feets.
  
  Another thing i liked was the abundance of vehicles in the game. Not only can you drive your faction's 
 army vehicles such as assault jeeps/boats. But you can drive some of the civilian vehicles as well. 
 If you see a truck laying on the side of the road, you can load it up with your buddies, and try 
 it with that.
  
  But One thing that Gets people pissed off easily in this game is TKers. (team killers, people who 
 kill their own team on purpose.) You can easily avoid these if you go out into the field and run 
 around, where a tker would get tired chasing after you. Where most of the tking takes place in, 
 is in the main base for each faction. If your waiting for the helicopter to spawn, youll find yourself 
 waiting for it to spawn with a tker waiting right with you, with a gun pointed to your head. Although 
 you can easily cast a vote to votekick the tker, it is hard for other players to see that you casted 
 a vote. You might find yourself actually asking people in the server to boot the person you want 
 out.
  
  But if you actually get into a vehicle, and your server is TKer free, then you will have the time 
 of your life. There is no greater rush than flying 15 feet above the ground dodging flag poles 
 and buildings with inches to spare, with gunners shooting out the sides of the window the whole 
 time. This game will give you a great adrenaline rush if you let it.
  
  But one thing i didnt like about the vehicles is the fact that you can too easily kill one. It 
 only takes 1 or 2 shots from the rocket to kill a tank, something a sneaking engineer can do with 
 ease. Also the fact that the Snipers have this tool called laser targeting. In my opinion it is 
 the cheapest weapon in the world. What it does is basically locks onto the target (after you hold 
 down the trigger button long enough.) and about 15 seconds later, a missle will shoot out from 
 the sky, and by guided to the target you just locked onto. You only have like a 1/10 chance of 
 surviving this, this is if your basically doing backflips with your blackhawk, and the missle flies 
 outta control and misses you (barley.) or if you bail out after a good amount of time when you 
 hear the locking on noise.
  
  You can, however use this laser target tool an unlimited amount of times without wasting any ammo, 
 if you use the right technique. Often times, the minute people hear the "locking-on" noise in their 
 cockpit, they bail out, carelessly. So you can simply just use the laser targeting gun on a target 
 to bluff him into bailing out. You can do this by just holding down the trigger button untill the 
 gun is almost completly done locking on, if you let go, the targeting will be canceled, and you 
 wont waste any ammo. This is very useful if you want to get a pilot out of a helicopter, and as 
 he parachutes downward, snipe him with ease.
  
  Anyway I really liked this game, Ive racked up about a good 50 hours on it, and its safe to say 
 im addicted to it now. I really enjoyed it, and i hope you do too.
  
  I give it a 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOHBOY_87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  well this is basicly the same as the orginal xbox version the controler layout was changed vechiles 
 have been slowed down, but overall the game is good if you get this game you really need to get 
 xbox live if you dont have it thats where the true replay value comes from, the campagin is ok 
 not the best in the world but you get what you see, but you cant count this game out with out playing 
 it online, there are a few things i would change but the bigest one of them is this version is 
 way way to dark the first day i picked it up i went online and found out the hard way i was standing 
 next to a enemy and i couldent even see him cause he was in the shadow, but that can always be 
 used to you're advantage as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaponXQc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I've rented the Xbox version a while ago - liked it back then. And now that I own a 360, I was 
 lookin' a good action FPS for Xbox Live. MC is probably the best Live shooter you can get if you're 
 lookin' for a fast pace "counter-strike-like" game. Rent first if you're not on Xbox Live though. 
 Looks really sharp on HD, but not as good as GRAW looks, and we're still a long way from what Gear 
 of War promises. We get to see some collision bugs once in a while, nothing really important though 
 from what I've seen, although the corpse physics is nice.. I like my corpse hangin' from a lamp 
 post (hehe) .
  Sound is amazin'. Very immersive, you're in the battle and you can almost feel the bullet going 
 by your head. This game deserves to be in my collection. See you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 Modern Combat is a fantastic first person shooter online, the single player might 
 as well not exist. Once you've played the online, you'll never go back to single player. 
  
  Pros: Online, Online, and Online. Don't bother with the single player unless you just want 
 to unlock crap. The online is so intense... You'll be standing out in the middle of no where when 
 all of the sudden you'll have to run from a crashing helicopter. The weapons are beautifully detailed. 
 The graphics are pretty damn good. The controls aren't like a standard FPS, works better this way. 
 Vehicle combat is great. The music is FANTASTIC and really puts you in the mood. Charector movement 
 animations are very realistic and the physics to the game are very fun to watch (Ex: Watching a 
 dude fly like 50 feet in the air then smack the ground after you C-4'd his Hummer) . Every Xbox 
 Live game should follow this games multiplayer format. It's easy to find games and stay with them... 
 Sides are usually pretty balanced... Rank can be turn on or off very easily (unlike PDZ) ... No 
 major lag issues (unlike COD2) ... Laser guided missles from the Sniper class, and artillery from 
 the Support class are both great additions to the Battlefield Arsenal. Charector classes very well 
 balanced, feels like no one class has an advantage. This game is probably the best online game 
 Xbox 360 has to offer.
  
  Cons: Why is this called Battlefield 2 again.... it's a totally different game from the PC's Battlefield 
 2. C-4 is not strong enough to destroy a tank..... Waaaaaa???? That was half the fun on the PC 
 version, strapping C-4 to a truck and suicide bombing a tank. Also, you can't look around in vehicles 
 like you can on PC... thats a cool feature and should be in this game. Also something cool at the 
 PC version thats missing here.... The Medic class and it's cool paddles.... nothings better than 
 saving your troops lives then zapping someone to death. Squads are missing too..... WHY!
  
  Final word: Tons of action online. If you have live buy it.... If you don't, I wouldn't bother. 
 Definantly one of those online experiences that keeps you coming back again and again. Just don't 
 expect the game to be better than it's PC counter part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johny-Gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Hello the game is so nice cive nice .it have a good grafic verry better who half life 2 and the 
 pc version (battlefield) isnt  
 It life the xbox 360 its much better who pc and i love oblivion it a good game. the sound of the 
 game is so  
 i am from germany and i cant speak good english its a dificalt speak isnt  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col-Ancient
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  BF2: MC had to be one of the most promising games this year from my point of view. EA delivered 
 a great arcade style FPS shooter that gives you hours of enjoyment. It has some downsides though.
 
  
  The Good: Fast paced action, 24 player live, mini challenges are very fun, ranking system on live 
 and single player, very sweet next-gen graphics, very nice vehicles, and all around fun gameplay.
 
  
  The Bad: No checkpoints in missions so you have to start all over if you fail, vehicles are a little 
 to sensitive (meaning they will blow up if you hit something as small as a park bench or a stop 
 sign) , and some minor graphics issues.
  
  The Ugly: Team AI is HORRIBLE (I saw a AI shoot at an enemy point blank range and miss a whole 
 clip) , if you fail a mission you get a 'lecture' (so annoying) , there are so many tkers on live 
 it takes the fun out of it somewhat, and a load of glitches. 
  
  Overall it's worth the $60. But if you have a PC capable of running BF2 buy it for PC. If not get 
 the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobwhu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I think anyone giving this game a poor review from the outset was probably a little hasty, 
 and like me, did not enjoy their first experience of Battlefield 2, but. After 2-3 hours on the 
 single player campaign everything changed, My first issue was control, after playing the fluid 
 Call of Duty 2, this seemed a little slow and jerky, gladly, playing the single player campaign 
 helped me to overcome this. Secondly, from the outset, all on-line games seemed way to frantic, 
 everyone running around shooting anyone, taking whatever flag, now all this seems to have changed, 
 strategically, people are looking at the important areas of each map, taking significant area's 
 of control and defending them, using helicopters and tanks wisely. 
  
  I am not saying this is the finished article, I myself was a little annoyed that for functionality, 
 this does not meet the level set by the PC, however, we must remember this does have something 
 that looks like a single player campaign. The game does require patching in some area's, some general 
 gameplay issues stand out, cropping issues seem to pop up from time to time and from the experience 
 of several HD TV owners, some areas of the map are pretty dark, so perhaps some form of gamma correction 
 is needed. 
  
  Overall this game proved far more addictive than I initially thought with the on-line experience 
 getting better and better with each game, although a long way from perfect, this does represent 
 a solid on-line experience, which offers a little bit more than the usual death match. Graphics 
 vary between OK and stunning with a adequate single player campaign. For on-line shooter fans that 
 want more than COD2 and a little less realism than GRAW, then I would have no issue recommending 
 Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Yes I loved the xbox version and I couldnt wait to play this game. I rent it and........
  Gameplay- It took this long to come out and its the same as the xbox. When I mean same... I mean 
 IDENTICAL. There is NO difference. BUT you have to look at how good the xbox version was. The online 
 play is VERY addicting. Even though this game was identical to its xbox brother. I still is very 
 fun.
  Graphics- At least these improved. There is one thing I didnt like. Its kinda dark. The graphics 
 need to be lit up a bit. If youve played it u know what i mean.
  Sound- Good Good thats about it.
  Value-Not good. Why would I waste 60 bucks for something that 
 I can get on xbox for only 30. Its the same thing. The graphics difference I can live with. I would 
 rather have the xbox version.
  The game has awesome Online so it at least deserves an 8. But its a next gen game, it shouldnt 
 be the same as a game thats not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinger1007
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a good solid shooter for the Xbox 360. The singleplayer is rock 
 hard especially when yo get further on in the game e. g. in the final level (NATO) you must destroy 
 2 nuclear missile silos that are sitting close to eachother but these are defended by heaving machine 
 guns placed left, right and centre and alot of the times when you start the mission and you are 
 parachuting in you die alot of the times before you are even near to touching the ground.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is good, the weapons have a descent feel to them and are very effecient, 
 there are alot of vehicles to contol from tanks to apaches witch is alot of fun devastating the 
 enemy, the A. I. is ok, most people complain about how you teammates A. I. is rubbish but I noticed 
 that it the same as the enemy and in some cases better as i have noticed if 2 engineers meet round 
 a corner there is 50/50 for either of them to win. 
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are good as they can supposedly run on 1080i on an HDTV. The gun models look brilliant, 
 alot of detail and they look nice and chunky although I would'nt say the same for the snipers, 
 the textures are pretty sharp but can look a bit blurry up close e. g. on the door of a building, 
 the vehicles are well rendered with good sharp design.
  
  Sound:
  Not much can be said for sound although some guns can sound a bit underpowered but then again some 
 do sound good aswell like the sniper rifles and rocket launchers .
  
  Value:
  Not amazing value but not that bad, it's not really worth the 50/$60 price tag, if you are patient 
 I would wait till this is reduced a bit or else rent if you can, unlike over here in Northern Irelend 
 were you can't rent 360 games, only PS2 and Xbox.
  
  Outroduction:
  All in all Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a good solid shooter and has a good multiplayer aswell, 
 although if you don't have Xbox live then I wouldn't advice you throw away 50/$60 on this game 
 but BF2: MC is good craic but would be good if it split screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  It's fun. The character classes keep the game rather balanced making sure that the best character 
 often come down to a goodness of fit. I like the fact that they kept the weapons vehicles and equipment 
 rather true to what I remember in military. Most battles typically come down to teamwork and creative 
 (or dirty) tactics. Admittedly though the overall game is nothing to shout about. much of the gameplay 
 lacks a certain sense of variety. The commentator's voice over the radio is annoying. All in all 
 a decent game that's fun to play but lacks the edge to trump Halo. Rent it first before you decide 
 to purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firewall
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. Yes it does have some issues, but come on. This game delivers period. 
 The online action is the best. Mind you if your expecting a clone of Bf2 for the PC this is not 
 it. Instead it's a little watered down, but still it has to be one of the funnest games I've ever 
 played. I recommend this game to every fps fan and all those who aren't. Trust me you won't be 
 disappointed. For all those who gave this game a bad or mediocre review, should seek psychiatric 
 help. Games are made to be fun, exciting, and entertaining and this game has it in spades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay, We'll start off with the single-player:
  
  The single player to me is a great experience, filled with hard challenges and very cool recon 
 missions and other types such as challenges and other types like that.
  "Hotswapping" is switching from one character to another- if you are low on health, you can "Hotswap" 
 with another kind of class ( which will be told later in this review.) and you will take over as 
 that class. In total in this Mode of Gameplay I would give a 9.7- Because there are some glitches 
 in the game, and constant screamingWE'RE PINNED DOWN!!!" will get extremely repetitive. 
  
  Now on to the Multiplayer:
  
  The multiplayer in this game is awesome, detailed with medals, 
 badges, and ranks. When you start off a match, you have a option of one nation or the other nation, 
 after that, you pick a class: the classes are: Sniper (good at picking off enemies from far away) , Assault (which 
 are good at charging in to the battle) , Support (which give support during fights such as giving 
 health and such) , Spec Ops ( which are good at sneaking along and doing stealth work) , Engineer (which 
 are good at repairing Vehicles and blowing them up too.) i would give multiplayer a 10 because 
 it is the pure reason that battlefield exsits.
  
  ---=BATTLEFIELD 2: MODERN COMBAT= ---
  
  thanks for reading this,
  
  THE CHE DUDE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixmasta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  if you have never played any game in the series then you are in for a joy ride if you have its 
 like eating the same ice cream with 10 scoops more... if you love military games here is your haven 
 if you dont you might convert many times in this game you might want to slap the creator in the 
 face for not putting co-op or cool blood effects the multiplayer is great unlike the boring one 
 in ghost recon which is lame ... still wishin for co-op in the next game ever heard of the new battlefield 
 coming out i forgot the name looks maddd nice though and it is really advanced so check that out 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will171
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the computer battle field 2 but im sure that must be awsome. to a person that 
 has never played battle field 2 this is the best game on the 360 every one who gives this game 
 a bad review has played the crap out of the pc and xbox versions (which is understandable) . they 
 expect some totaly different game, but its not, it is just the old game on the new system with 
 better graphics. if you had this game for your pc or x box i highly dont recomend this game because 
 its the same game. on the other hand if you never played a battle field game and you just picked 
 up a 360 i couldnt recomend this game any more because it is great./ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katullins
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  I just don't understand why people are rating this game so low? Reviewers keep talking about how 
 bad the SP is etc... but rave about the multiplayer yet the game gets low scores. If anyone plays 
 the PC version of BF2, the single player is even worse and almost non existent. At least this single 
 player has fun gallery type shooting with some really cool challenges (hot swap challenge and rpg 
 challenges are awsome!) Not only are the graphics and effects superior on the 360, but more people 
 coordinate, use headsets, and the action is just as intense if not more than the PC version. I 
 have the right to say this because I have been playing the PC version of BF2 with all expansion 
 packs since it came out. I have a much better time playing on the 360 because of the smooth online 
 play, great graphics, and much more fun teamplay. This game should have at least gotten rated the 
 same as BF2 on the PC from gamespot, which was a 9.2 Don't let other people and game sites discourage 
 you from getting this game. I normally always trust gamespots ratings, but this time the rating 
 is flawed. BF2: MC is a highly rewarding and very enjoyable game that you will not regret buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  i bought it when it came out but ii have only played it twice so far cause it still not that appealing 
 to me i still find call of duty 2 and G. R. A. W. more fun right now maybe i just need to play it 
 som more or something but so far its an okay gamei guess im gonna go home im gonna play it some 
 i guess and see if i can get in to it some more or atleast try to anyway cause i wuz also dissapointed 
 with the online play of the game ea needs to get better severs for the game other than that its 
 an okay game and would reconmend it to anyone who like war games and its a must have if you own 
 a 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redweed
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game sucks compared to its much older and so much wiser older brother BF2 on PC. I have been 
 playing BF2 on my PC since it came out and have had many a fun eight hour battle. Sadly I thought 
 MC was just going to be a watered down more "acadey" experience; but no! It's been watered down 
 so much that there is no real feeling of the original game left. Add to this bugs and glitches 
 in the single player campaign and dark barley visible graphics and what you are left with is a 
 pretty terrible, unbalanced multi player game that has none of the originals flavour. If you haven't 
 played the PC version you may be forgiven for thinking that this game is alright. But believe me 
 it really isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp1434
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The battlefield name is known for a great multiplayer experience on the pc but can it do the same 
 for the 360? 
  
  Battlefield has been a huge success on the pc and rightfully so now it time for the console to 
 get a taste of battlefield but thats the problem its just a taste. The first question a lot of 
 people are going to ask is is this as good as the PC version?" and in short no. The 360 version 
 of battlefield just isnt as polished and the multi player is damaged with EA wanting to run their 
 own servers. The campaign mode feels kind of empty and is not the main reason someone would buy 
 this game.
  
  So lets gets started with the campaign mode. This is a first for the battlefield series and in 
 all fairness its not a bad try but its not quite there yet. Its feels tagged and not carefully 
 thought out. You start of your first mission parachuting in a war zone and thats really cool for 
 5 seconds... and then you get over it. Things like that is what make some people go out to buy 
 this game, the small quick bursts of wow thats cool". When you complete a mission you will get 
 points and that will increase your rank as you go along, this is all kind of empty and doesnt 
 mean much, you will also gain better stats for your weapons but you dont really notice them throughout 
 the campaign making this also kind of empty. The shooting is quite arcadey and doesnt feel very 
 precise. The campaign doesnt propose any real challenge mainly because if you die, you just switch 
 to a different marine in the war zone which brings me on to the hot swap feature. How the hot swap 
 feature works is if you see another marine on the battlefield you look at him and press X and you 
 zoom across the battlefield and into his head becoming that marine. Remember what I said about 
 those shorts bursts of "wow thats cool", you get over it quickly and its not a big deal. You 
 can also drive vehicles on battlefield, you got your standard tanks, buggies and cars but the big 
 one for most people is the helicopters. They are really fun to drive and the controls are easy 
 to pick up but this alone cant stop the campaign mode from being just ok.
  
  Now on to the meat of the game. The multi player mode on battlefield has kept most of the things 
 that made it great on the pc. You have all the vehicles and a good choice of maps and a selection 
 of different classs to pick from. How the multi player works is when the match starts both teams 
 have a set amount of points (also known as tickets) and the goal is to capture different locations 
 on the map to bring the opposing teams points down to zero. The reason the multi player shines 
 on the 360 is because consoles haven seen it before and that alone is a big selling point but the 
 multi player fails in several areas that make it not as good as it could as been. I mentioned earlier 
 about how the campaign shooting feels arcadey and not precise that also translates into the multi 
 player. A big issues most player have with the multi player is that you cant run your own servers, 
 EA hosts all the servers and that brings down the whole multi player experience. Something like 
 clan practice is out of the question because of this, it is a downer but doesnt ruin the game. 
 Something that has happened on all battlefield games and continues to go on is team killing and 
 the main reason someone does this is to get a vehicle you about to get into or to stop you from 
 getting points when taking a flag. Its sad it has to be like this but its unavoidable.
  
  In the end your going to buy this game for the multi player it is good fun and since its never 
 been done this well on a console that alone is enough to pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield 2 modern combat for the xbox 360 it is an exact port of the orignal xbox game, but 
 with revamped gfx's engine and new A. I. The game put in the roles of three different faction Americans, 
 Chinese. But what makes this game different from other squad based shooter is the use of vehichles 
 and it has hot swapping system which allows you to switch to different character on the battlefield. 
 Well first we will start off with gameplay the controlls i found a bit touchy in spots and the 
 vehichle handling is not the most responsive. The game is long at just over 21 levels, there are 
 35 vehichles from tanks to helicopters and also 55 weapons. The gfx's engine looks good no fps 
 problems. But EA really dropped the ball in the sound effects they really suck it just doesnt sound 
 good at all. The levels and mission objective's are bassically the same thru t he all the levels 
 which wouldn't be that bad if they weren't so tedious. For example you will be at the end of the 
 level and you will die and have to start all over again. This would be fine if the game was exciting 
 but it isnt it is not intense. Over all the singal player is a dissapointment. But what saves this 
 game is the online you can play against 24 of your friends via xbox live which is a blast. But 
 no split screen multiplayer which stinks. If your stuck with singal player rent it but if you have 
 xbox live pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  I will put the ascpects of the game that I really noticed in plain view so you can see what I thought 
 of the game. The are many goods but many more downs. I will let you make the decision to get it 
 but I cannot speak for MP gameplay as I dont play any game online so all opinions are based off 
 the SP game.
  
  The Bad:
  Enemies and not you can shoot through many walls. (AR rnds penetrating Concrete Bunkers)
  The 
 friendly AI will not move at all unless you do. (1-3 men is realistic but the entire allied army?)
 
  Friendly AI will not shoot most of the time and when they do their accuracy is only average.
 
  Enemy AI can hit you with 1-shot kills with MG guns in distances you cant even see when zoomed 
 in.
  Movement is loose and too fluid. (Maybe realstic but this game isnt realstic in any way)
  You 
 cant really adjust your aim sens. since zoomed sens. is 20x more sensative than non-zoomed.
  Armor/Health/Reload/Fire Rate enhancments are only achieved by going on a rush-through killer run 
 and they are lost 100x easier than achieved and the weapon enhancments suck away from any realism 
 the game was holding onto.
  Weapon upgrades (once all unlocks are achieved) really suck, I mean c'mon, a 45 rd M4 mag that 
 looks like a 30rd?
  Not really enough ribbons or medals to achieve, unlocked weapons are all achieved probobly half-way 
 through the first time you finish the game and Enlisted, NCO &amp; Junior Officer ranks are way 
 too easy to achieve. (2nd Lt. First-Go-Around)
  From between-mission briefings is seems as if the developers are putting down military leaders 
 worldwide and took a whole 3 seconds to come up with the conflict. (America=world's power, China=rising 
 power, them at war=BF2) The reason for the Chinese invasion of Kazakhstan during NATO deployment 
 their isnt ever really revealed.
  Finally, you cant play either side of conflicting forces in a battle or even every soldier class.
 
  
  The Good:
  Singleplayer weapon unlocks &amp; upgrades as well as soldier enhancments, Medals, Ribbons &amp; 
 Ranks rock!!!
  Objective-Based missions with fairly openness is damn cool for the BF series.
  The graphics are 
 utterly beautiful. Textures are compact &amp; the resolution is great, Shadows are realistic and 
 lighting can blind you for a few seconds if you come from the dark into the light quickly and look 
 into the sun.
  Sound is okay but some weapon reports arent very sharp or realistic.
  The SP game has some aspect of replayability on several levels of some maps.
  
  Overall:
 
  The game feels pretty damn thrown together or just simply a lack of GOOD decision making going 
 on up at Digital Illusions, but then again the game offers something new for consoles and if played 
 right and by the right people the game can be very fun. If you have or have played the PC version 
 if will feel like a downgrade in a few aspects and an upgrade in others, it balances out pretty 
 much and the levels take a hell of a lot of getting use to as do the controls considering the thought 
 -or lack of- put into them. If you are into getting medals, ribbons &amp; ranks as well as unlocks 
 &amp; upgrades for games of the genre then the game offers a decent amount despite its fairly limited 
 variety. Realism is also something the game has dropped since its days in the PC top 10 but it 
 can be fun and somewhat realistic if you play it right but overall you better be ready for some 
 arcade-style gaming. So its extremely great aspects mixed with its completley idiotic decisions 
 that created the game it was allowed to be in my collection for 30.00, should I have rented it 
 one last time before buying I may have waited for it to reach 20.00 new but I didnt and I wont 
 trade it in so I dont really regret it.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sounds 6/10
  Gameplay 7/10
  Replayability 7/10
  Stabability 5/10
  Satisfactory 6/10
  Overall 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curthard89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Well, after buying on friday, i couldnt wait to get home, and load it up..... First things first, 
 i do sort of think they make the games to dark just so they can show of there nice reflective surfaces 
 like "wow look what we can make". Sure its a superb game, single player lacks..... excitment shall 
 we say, multiplayer just kills any other game around (specialy GRAW) . Graphics are really good, 
 if any of you lot have a modern pc with a good graphics card and a modern game such as FEAR then 
 u will notice rendering effects r great, so on BF2, look closely at floor (snow levels) the texture 
 and lighting are GREAT. Sounds.... well i dont really care about them, footsteps are good on dif 
 terrains, one thing that looks weird is that tanks are really low to ground.. any1 else have same 
 thing? apart from that, superb... lol great review dont ya think? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  I have been awaiting this game for god knows how long. I nearly bought the Xbox version, but after 
 I played the demo level I was hugely disappointed with that. So I waited for the 360 version.
 
  
  I have only played the Xbox Live version, so I will review multiplayer only.
  
  The graphics.
  The simply look stunning. The levels are large and detailed. The weapons and vehicles 
 look great. And so do the characters. This all adds to the atmosphere and helps you want to play. 
 Whilst the lighting does take some getting used to. But in HD mode the game truly is stunning, 
 imagine what the grahpics will be like in a year or so when the programmers eek out all the tricks 
 with the console.
  
  The sound.
  Patchy at best. Some of he sound is great, and yet some is pants. For example the sniper rifle. 
 You fire the rifle and you get a short pop sound rather than the full reverb you would expect. 
 So sniping does sound that good. Yet the vehicles sound spot on strange.
  
  Multiplayer gameplay.
  The game is very easy to get into. There are a number of options that 
 you can modify ie game type conquest or CTF. Number of players etc. Once through this you get to 
 select a game that is running and you join in. There are a number of soldier classes that you can 
 be sniper, engineer, assault, special ops or gunner each with different weapons and skills. I enjoy 
 sniping and in this game it's possible to do this, but also the sniper has a laser designator so 
 he can call in an air strike on armour which is really satisfying. You have to then go and reload, 
 but hey it adds to the game play. I don't understand why they dumped the ability to drop ammo and 
 1st aid bags as in the PC version. If a number of you talk to each other you can truly rule the 
 map. But, as yet no one seems to use this function much. So I joined a clan ad that should improve 
 my ranking no end. Did I mention rankings, yep the more you play the mor epoints you aquire the 
 higher a rank you get which strangely is quite important to one self. You can get medals also, 
 so for example if you shoot 2 people in say 5 seconds you get a medal. Busting really.
  
  So I think this game rocks. It's a corker. But, still not as good as the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  FIRST TIME BATTLEFIELD PLAYER
  
  I am a Halo 2 junky. There is no doubt about it. Every game I play I compare to Halo. Not because 
 I am a fanboy, but because I have never played any game as long as I played Halo. The reason Halo 
 had replay was because of the great online setup. I work at a game store and have played tons of 
 the newest FPS's on all systems. Not one has come close to Halo 2, until now. This game takes the 
 cake. The online setup is awesome and easily the best online setup for a shooter on Xbox 360. The 
 key to online, which no other 360 game has done well, is the great ranking system. Now I know this 
 game scored lower with Gamespot and other reviewers because it is almost identical to the game 
 that came out 6 months ago on other systems. I can't argue this point because I am reviewing this 
 game as a first time player. I played the Xbox version, but never put any time into it. This game 
 is sweet. If you are looking for a FPS where you want to level up, this is it. Not only are you 
 leveling up in your ranking, but you are also earning medals and tracking your points per hour, 
 which eventually come into effect when you start to move up to other levels. Have you ever played 
 a game with one of your friends and they have the same level as you, but you know they have played 
 way longer????? Did this annoy you????? Well this game won't let that happen!!! With the PPH (points 
 per hour) system, you will always know who's best. I don't buy games that earn 7.5. I did this 
 time and trust me it is well worth it.
  
  Problems: Aiming sucks sometimes. It has frozen a couple times. GRAW has much better graphics. 
 These are still much better than Xbox though. Spawn killing somtimes sucks. Only two online modes, 
 trust me though, it doesn't matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twardo101
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  the 360 version fo the game fixes the biggest problem of Battlefield 2, that the guns feel like 
 toy things that run out of ammo in about a second of firing and do no dammage. 
  
  The computer version was an awesome game, but i just hated the developers for puting in a system 
 for shooting normal weapons below the standard of other games, for example if bf2 had the shooting 
 (as in shotguns, rifles etc) of COD and the rest the same as it is (as in driving tanks, flying 
 hellicopters etc) , it would be amazing, but it doesnt. 
  
  However, the 360 version in my opinion did fix this for the most part, but lost (for me) the feeling 
 of teamwork online and so id have to say its a great game but still doesn't do justice to the actual 
 idea of all out war in the game. 
  
  overall id say the console version is slightly better but the whole seris is still open for alot 
 of improvement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Heey ^^ fine that you read this..
  if you own this game and you have xbox live gold then you have to add me as friend :) 
  My name 
 is : Hyakimaru
  And by the way also join my clan pleae 
  it's called -Black Army- but i wanna join a clan and if i do er stands
  First chooe a team leader 
 before you join a clan..
  how do i do that if you know PLEASEEEEEEEEEE
  e-mail me via gamepot
  thanks a lot................
  Adios amigosssssssssssssss
  . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  The good: Pretty graphics, It looks beautiful with motion blur & such. The way the gun bounces 
 & sways makes for more realistic gameplay. Game is worth buying just for the online, the single 
 player feels somewhat of an add-on. & big add-on. 16 multi-player maps, 4 differant countries to 
 play as, & up to 24 players online, with barely any lag. There are 5 differant classes with there 
 own weapon sets & special abbilities. There are alot of vehicals to use, so many it feels like 
 a chore to counts them. & the multi-player is well balanced, every class has it's own 100s of ways 
 to kill people.
  
  The bad: Some stupid gliches involve in not getting achievments online when you clearly earned 
 them. Some bad physics, like barrels making as hell of alot of noise for no real reason, I once 
 walked into a box & died. Announcers voice online can get very annoying. & the gameplay seems kinda 
 slipy at first, but ends up making it that much better.
  
  Rant: The only thing that really made me angry, is that I got 2 medals online, Marksman & Expert 
 sniper, I earned them in one game, on one life & I dident get the achivments, nor did they show 
 up on the states on my profile, even though there clearly described, they ask you to get 10 kills 
 using sniper kit weapons with out dieing for Expert Sniper, & you got to kill 4 guys with one clip 
 of a sniper rifle for Markman, I got them & they even appear in the middle of my screen in big 
 letters for a brief time, I was waiting for the Achievment Unlocked thing on the top of my screen, 
 but it dident appear. & also got 5 major victoris right after I lost a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Im not completly sure how single player is, due to the fact that i love playing 
 online so much. Its like halo 2, i could care less about single player because online is so much 
 fun that thats all i need. You will really get into the online play and your ranks, maybe to the 
 point where it pisses you off to be playing with noobs on your team or on the others. The graffics 
 are good, not up to the 360 standards though, the one thing i really hate is the bad shadow effects, 
 theyre all jaggy and appear and dissapear at points. There should be more weapons in the game, 
 because it is so dominated by vehicles its rediculous. pretty much if you encounter a tank on foot 
 your gone. Shooting is kind of confusing for the reason that theres a big circle as your crosshair, 
 but when you shoot your not actually shooting the whole area of that circle and can be frustrating 
 when your in a firefight and you constantly loose because the fact that you think the cross hair 
 is much bigger. It will get on your nerves, but its a great game that will keep you coming back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunchb3rry
Rating: 6
Date: May 2, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Modern Combat is a bit of a mixed bag. On one hand, the PC version is so nearly flawless 
 and the console "port" is really more of a different game entirely and shouldn't even bear the 
 same name.
  
  The singleplayer portion is very forgettable and has a final level that is rather difficult and 
 has some pretty rediculous requirements. Singleplayer has you slogging through missions and unlockable 
 challenges. You upgrade equipment, earn medals and go up in rank. It's not that singleplayer is 
 boring, but more that it can be painfully hard at times and there are a lot of flaws. You really 
 have no way to identify where enemies are other than to watch where fellow soldiers are shooting. 
 There is a guy on your radio who tells you where stuff is, but the dialogue is in pure military 
 speak and most players will not have a clue what he's saying half the time. The voice acting in 
 B: MC is pretty damn sorry. Some missions feature areas where the same line of dialogue will play 
 over and over until you get done with that part. Aside from that, the map is pretty useless and 
 it's hard to tell how many "lives" you have left, since dying in singleplayer zaps you to another 
 active soldier (although you can do this at will with the X button) . Basically, singleplayer is 
 just fluff content. The worst parts are where you have to run ahead by yourself for large bits 
 of the level before your "team" bothers to help out or spawn nearby. That's probably why you have 
 the hotswap feature: because your fellow soldiers stand around doing very little.
  
  Multiplayer is the true draw. You have two modes, standard base capturing that is a trademark of 
 the series, and regular old CTF. Players can choose from a few classes each suited to a particular 
 task... sadly most folks online just pick sniper or special ops. Those who pick Support or Engineer 
 don't even bother to use the specialty task of healing team members or repairing vehicles, as nearly 
 everyone treats their own lives and vehicles as disposable resources. The weapons are nice but 
 lack any real punch. Ghost Recon weaponry fees much better, while Battlefield: Modern Combat weapons 
 seem to take forever to kill anyone and can be tough to aim. Aiming is harder because to bring 
 up the scope you have to hit R3. Which is a real pain in the rear after Call Of Duty 2 redefined 
 the standard control scheme for the first time since Halo, by having the ability to bring up the 
 sights in an instant with the left trigger. Battlefield is sluggish. All of this could be fixed 
 if DICE took the time to simply patch the game (a patch was supposedly on the way as of the day 
 following release, but it's still missing in action) . It would be nice if we could map our own 
 controls. Another annoyance for multiplayer is the audio, where if you hook up to a receiver and 
 play as the Chinese, your eardrums will get blown out by the annoying Chinese radio guy (who basically 
 functions as an announcer.... and speaks in Chinese) . Multiply that by every player with an open 
 mic whose 5.1 system echoes the same insanely loud voice overs.
  
  Basically, online is at first a serious letdown compared to the current 360 top dog: Ghost Recon: 
 Advanced Warfighter. However, it grows on you after you play about 10 matches. Unfortunately, when 
 it grows on you, all of that is erased when you get too big of a dose of the horrible damage system 
 (shotguns that randomly have no spread whatsoever or will have sniper rifle accuracy from long 
 distances, hand grenades with decent splash damage but rocket launchers and grenade launchers with 
 little to none) and there's also the cheaters running all over doing every glitch/bug/exploit to 
 raise their leaderboard position or Achievement Points up (note to Microsoft: don't approve Achievements 
 that involve online play and another message to DICE: don't reveal the method of rank increases) . 
 The maps are pretty nice, but... sorry to keep comparing.... pale in comparison to the masterpiece 
 level design in GRAW. But the maps are still pretty solid overall, with the only downside being 
 a really poor draw distance, making it hard to get frags when the horizon fog is so thick you can't 
 tell friend from enemy when sniping long distance. Another bummer is more the fault of the community 
 than the game: people pick the same select few maps online. Be prepared to play a lot of the bridge 
 level from the demo and another rather unimpressive map called Backstab, because that's all anybody 
 ever votes for after a match.
  
  DICE is very good at making workable online games, but this game is clearly a sloppy port of an 
 existing game that has a lot more bugs than earlier variants. I don't think it's worth $60 when 
 the PC variant is much better and costs less... in addition to not having a $50 annual fee just 
 to play online. But if you already have XBL and are itching for something else to play instead 
 of Ghost Recon all the time, the game is a fair alternative, with the potential of being great 
 if EA didn't just tell DICE to move on and churn out the next Battlefield game instead of supporting 
 a current title via patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this game!!!!!!!! great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great v great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great. I love this game. It reminds be of CS whihc is counter strike. 
 This game is rated a 10!!! You must buy this game now because it is great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great v v great great great v 
 v great great great v v v great great great v great great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creamsoda09
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  if u have live then there is no point not getting this game, its worth it, better multiplayer than 
 graw, and if u like action, go for battlefield, not oblivion
  the graphics are amazing everything redesigned and the gameplay is just right, nothing is too outragous, 
 this game probably will have better online play then the next halo, basically, if u like military 
 shooters, get this, a real shooter, with jeeps and helicopters
  this game is just so good, i cant wait until they put battlefield 2142 on conslos , so if u like 
 action and big exsplosions, this is for you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  It pissed me off at first knowing that I just bought Battlefield 2 for the X-Box, and that I was 
 going to have to pay another $60 just to play it on the 360. I tell you what though, now I don't 
 regret it.
  The gameplay is even better with extra levels added, some new visuals, and an improved ranking 
 system. The servers are also better than ever. I've never been kicked yet. Only thing I complain about 
 is that on Live, either it's the people who don't talk or you get a room full of jackasses.
  Need I really say the graphics are much better? Some of the shadows on the ground are still fuzzy 
 just like the X-Box version.
  The sound is well done. You get an option of leaving the dumb music on, or turning it off. The weapons 
 sound more real this time around.
  Either way, if you liked being on the battlefield before, you're sure to like being there again! Go 
 ahead and buy this if you have Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat was first seen last year on the Xbox and PS2, to my shock, most game 
 sites gave it a pretty low score. I bought the game anyway, and it wasn't that good, the graphics 
 had a "haze" and the gameplay was limp and arcade like which made it less fun online. Now, EA and 
 DICE have come back to upgrade that old version into a new next gen game, and it seems they have 
 done a pretty good job, although it could have been alot better.
  
  The gameplay in Battlefield 2: MC is pretty much the same as the previous versions, mostly arcade-like 
 shooting and such. BUT!, the gameplay has been re-worked and upgraded a bit, you can really tell 
 that it was changed (If you played the last gen game) . The controls are more tight and responsive, 
 so I say good job to you EA for changing that enough to make it fun. The sound is "ok", I mean 
 its nothing amazing, the sounds of the guns are pretty weak but once again, it is much better then 
 last gen's version of the game. The background music is the same sadly, and I hated it, and I still 
 do hate it... lucky for me and others there is the nice 360 feature of listening to your own sound-track... how 
 nice!
  
  The graphics in BF2: MC are much, much.... much nicer then before. They are nice and crisp, but nothing 
 too Next Gen, which is someone a let down from EA. One thing people ask me about this game is, 
 "Is it worth the $60 bucks?", and that is a yes and no answer. No, its not if you didn't really 
 enough the first version, or DON'T HAVE XBOX LIVE... make sure you got that part, its important. 
 Now, I would say Yes buy it if, you have never played BF2: MC before and are looking for a fun online 
 game to play with your friends, since there is a nice clan match feature. 
  
  In conclusion, Battlefield 2: Modern Combat is a good game, it does have its flaws but someone 
 with an open mind and look past them with no problem. And one thing I forgot to say, there is a 
 niffty little stat feature that tracks all of your stats in ranked games, which is nice for people 
 that want to "own" their friends and brag about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChEeSyMeAtSaUce
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  What some people dont understand is that when they say you can get this game for the Xbox and PS2, 
 no one cares. People complain about the multiplayer and get mad since its not "next-gen". No one 
 ever said the game was going to be next-gen just because the game was on a next-gen consol. e. Besides, 
 you cant compare the 360's multiplayer to the PS2; no one plays PS2 Online. Now when people say 
 the Xbox version is better, well they need to understand this. Not all people have an Xbox to play 
 the 10 buck cheaper version. And what they also need to know is that the graphics are almost next-gen, 
 kinda like Halo 2 if it were on the 360 - its ALMOST next-gen. Yes the game is an arcadey setup, 
 but the game is what it is, so people, quit making stupid remarks why this and that would be better. 
 Go make a "This would be a good idea for a patch" forum, so maybe a "Ideas for Battlefield 3" forum. 
 People need to understand that the 360 version is well worth the extra 10 bucks for better graphics, 
 a better Xbox Live provided by the 360 in the first place, acheivements and all of those little 
 things that make the game worth it's name. he game is DEFINITLY worth its bang for its bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to take a moment to say that this game getting rated a 7.5 is extremely funny to me. The 
 reason is, when G. R. A. W. came out, Gamespot was all over it.. Editor's Choice, "You need to buy 
 this game! It's so great!", blah, blah. I guess having that "Tom Clancy" name badge on the game 
 really sold them..... The thing about this game is that alot of the bad reviews it's getting are 
 coming from people who are saying, "I've done this! I saw this all on the original Xbox!". To that 
 response I say this: Does the 360 MC title say "Battlefield 2: Modern Combat" or does it say "Battlefield 
 3"? What did you expect?? The game is a port from Xbox to 360, and for good reason since it's one 
 of the very best multiplayer games the Xbox ever had, even winning over some of the Halo 2 players 
 out there like myself. I fail to understand why someone would think that a game of the EXACT SAME 
 NAME on the 360 would be a totally different experience. I am extremely glad EA ported this one 
 over. With updated visuals (heavily) , great servers, and that same intense Battlefield gameplay 
 I loved on Xbox, this game is a shining star amidst the dark sky that is the current Xbox 360 library. 
 Of course, that's my opinion. So I'll do my best to give you a good idea of what to expect from 
 this one in my Game Breakdown. Here it is:
  
  Graphics: If you played it on Xbox, there's no way you'll play this one and not notice the upgrade. 
 The guns look great, and the player models do as well. Artillery strikes are quite a site. Once, 
 I was laying prone on top of an oil refinery looking down over the enemy base. As the artillery 
 strike rained down on it, you could just see bodies and explosions everywhere and after the shells 
 stopped falling, you'd see 50-gallon drums flying 200, 300 feet in the air and crashing down. It 
 can't really be described in any other words than "freakin awesome." The environments are gorgeous. 
 I've read alot of reviews about people not being overly impressed with the new version of this 
 game, but everywhere I look, I see upgraded visuals galore. If you fire the shotgun, which sounds 
 awesome by the way but I'll get to that later, you can actually see the smoke coming from the barrel 
 a few seconds after you shoot it. A small effect, but impressive. Much like the bullet casings 
 that you can see when you fire the mounted machine guns. Very nice looking fires in this game, 
 with the "wavy-heat effect" for lack of a better description. Basically, if you're up close, you 
 get to see that haze around the flames like you would see staring at the surface of a hot blacktop 
 roadway. Very sweet. Oh, and the camo on the snipers - GRAW, THIS is what snipers are supposed 
 to look like. 
  
  Sound: The sound effects in this game are probably the best they could possibly be. The guns sound 
 awesome, especially the shotgun.... it's deafening. The choppers sound great, as do explosions, 
 etc. When you're in a building crouched down and there's a tank outside firing round after round 
 at you, and you hear the helicopters whirring around overhead, it's an adrenaline-filled experience. 
 Just like walking into town from a spawn point to hear the machine gun fire slowly getting louder 
 as you get closer to the town or base where everyone is fighting.
  
  Control: This one could be tricky for those who have played the Xbox version alot. The reason is, 
 alot of the buttons do different functions this go. For instance, "Y" no longer reloads. That one 
 took me the longest to get used to. And the fact that "Y" opens your parachute when you're falling 
 lead me to a few deaths, but now it's second nature. For those that haven't played BF2 before, 
 the control will be a breeze. Within minutes, you'll be switching weapons on the fly and jumping 
 off of buildings to parachute to the ground below.
  
  Entertainment: This is one of the very few games that I can play where I don't care whether I win 
 or lose because I'm having so much fun. I truly believe that says alot right there. Of course, 
 I always try to win, but if I don't (usually I don't) , I still have a heck of a time running around 
 shooting people or driving tanks, choppers, jeeps, etc. If you have Xbox Live Gold, then there's 
 no reason for you not to have this game. Unless of course you don't like FPS games. Then it's understandable. 
 But if you're like me, and you're sick of playing Halo 2 on your new 360 because you traded in 
 your BF2 copy from the original Xbox towards a 360 game and haven't really had a good 360 Live 
 game yet, then this is your lucky day. I have a hard time putting this game down. You'll be impressed 
 with just how easy moving around and interacting with the realistic levels can be. And with the 
 realism. You never know what building might have an enemy sniper, and if you're the sniper, you 
 never know when you might be going toe to toe with a tank or helicopter, or even another sniper. 
 One thing to mention also: If you didn't like sniping in Halo 2 because you hated having to get 
 a headshot to get a one hit kill, this game is for you. All you have to do is hit the shot anywhere 
 on the enemy and they're down and out. For more experienced users, the ratings system with this 
 game will take you some time to master as some of the objectives for attaining certain medals can 
 be incredibly hard.
  
  All in all, if you're looking for a multiplayer game, this one is the one to get. The single player 
 mode I haven't really covered because I feel this game, like the Star Wars: Battlefront series, 
 is really focused on the multiplayer. If you're looking into this game for a single player experience, 
 I really don't recommend it for that reason. The single player mode is hard and not very engaging, 
 and is the SOLE reason I did not give this game a 10. But if you're looking for an Xbox Live frag 
 fest, then look no further. If you rent this game to try the multiplayer, you're going to buy it 
 after so I'd say save the money and get it outright. My official bottom line: I can definitly recommend 
 this game as a rental. I can also definitly recommend it as a purchase if you have Xbox Live Gold. 
 For the single player gamers out there, and that's the games I usually play, but, hold off on this 
 one. It really won't give you very much for your money. I'd recommend Far Cry Instincts Predator 
 very strongly as a single player FPS alternative to this one. Thanks for reading my review and, 
 whatever games you do play, enjoy them. Remember, that's the whole point of everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamersea
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Yeah, You got your 360. But you have to buy a game. You got Xbox Live and only $60 (Euro) ? And 
 1 controller? Buy Battlefield 2 Modern Combat. 
  
  As soon you are online you can join or make a server. In that server you can pick a Army most times 
 it would be USA, China or MEC, After that you can pick your class all of them have there +'s and 
 -'s.
  Right now on the time of writing this is the BEST ONLINE game. 
  24 players online, Many vehicles on the ground in the air and on sea in 1 word: Great. First time 
 it's pretty hard to learn atleast for the people who didn't played it on the Xbox, You can drive 
 vehicles or get on a second seat like a 50. cal a railgun or just a seat, There are 16 maps and 
 2 game modes. CTF it stands for itselfs everybody know it from Halo or a other FPS game. And you 
 got Conquest the objective with this mode is; To take all the flags and keep the enemy away. It's 
 a great mode and you have to use everything that you can use, Now something else, My top 5 maps.
 
  
  1# The Nest, This is a Big map with many vehicles you can hold up the enemy tanks by putting up 
 there bridge, Snipers can snipe on the mountains but they can't see the hole map. Helicopters are 
 great and very handfull on this map because of that you got 4 helicopters. This is the best map 
 right now.
  
  2# Missile Crisis, This is a snow map with the Chinese and European side. A great thing about this 
 map is that the Chinese side have to keep the European side away of the flags, The EU has to attack 
 the Chinese and try to open the gate so the tanks can get in. Once the EU is in they can rule!
 
  
  3# Full Frontal, A small urban map but it's a great map with great fights, 3 Flags all the flags 
 a closed in by containers or something else. For a real fight you have to play this map.
  
  4#Coldfront, Now the rolls are turned the EU has to defend and the Chinese have to atack, A great 
 thing is that the EU has bunkers with 50. cal's in it and grenade guns, If you like to play a big 
 map try this one!
  
  5# Dammage, This is a great water map and you have to use the water vehicles. It's not a very big 
 map but it is a great map if you realy wanna use boats and stuff.
  
  Well, Right now I don't no what to write only this: Buy BF2MC if you have Xbox Live, And you have 
 a replay of 100+ hours with great maps, Cool vehicles and more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingboywonder
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  1st i would like to say that before i bought bf2 i never played the xbox or pc versions what made 
 me buy it was the demo .but lets talk graphics there pretty good i kinda like how it looks and 
 feels. online is realy cool cuz the ranking system and the clans are sweet but you have to have 
 at least 6 people to play in clan matches i have 4 in are clan now. theres no deathmatch but the 
 new ctf games are pretty cool ,and im a big ctf buff myself story is nice cuz its intence u kill 
 and blow up tanks hellacoppters boats and the best part is u get to drive land air and sea yay. 
 the weapens are a big step i have seen since halos weapens they just look realy cool the shapes 
 and collors make for a good shooting. the sound is a realy nice step it feals like movie sound 
 it that intence so its 60 dollas well i traded fight night and madden 06 to get bf2 and i was worth 
 those two 60 dolla games if u cant deside on a war game get this pleas u are gonna be so happy 
 when u do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Milk_Cows
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong Battlefield 2 is an awesome game. In fact the reason I bought the game is because 
 the PC demo and the 360 Demo were fun. But I started playing the single player, its great at first, 
 but I found it very difficult and frustrating in my opinion. Also I didn't like the controls at 
 first, and I wish they had an opinion to change the buttons and configure it. They also should 
 of had a difficulty setting would make my life much easier. The online mode is fun. Its very additicting 
 in fact the mulitplayer is just worth picking this thing up and skipping the whole single player. 
 Other then the flaws Battlefield is a great game and should be in every 360's owners collection 
 if they want a fun online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiskyTango
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has a really fun online. You can drive all vehicles in the map including land vehicles, 
 boats and cars. The graphics are some of the best I have seen. That does not make the game thought. 
 I like to have a accuracy mode for the gun. the gun is always accurate even if you not in the zoom 
 mode. Unless you have the support weapon in which case you will die if you shoot at some one from 
 35 yards.
  The game is really only fun if you have xbox live. If you do not you might want to hold off on 
 this one. There is no offline mutiplayer which was dissapointing because there are still not any 
 good co-op games out there for the 360. The campaign is ruined by switching back and forth through 
 the NATO soldiers and the terrorist. The AI can drive well and shoot well but if you move forward 
 often you men don't follow you. And the paratroopers constantly dropping out of helicopters cool 
 but cheasy. I like to para shoot in the online mode but in campaign mode it looks really GI Joe 
 and lame. The enemy run around at random. They shoot well but don't take cover from your fire. 
 If you always have a bunch of people to play this game with then it is probably a good investment. 
 This game is a good online game but you need to decide if it is worth 60 some dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meskamo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Reviewed on a standard TV
  
  The single player mode has been re-vamped. FMV graphics are crisp, although there are no subtitles 
 audio is clear. EA have kept the same missions, but hiked the difficulty, the enemies respond well 
 to the players presence and expect to knuckle down or Rambo it out, which without practice could 
 lead to heavy casualties.
  Highly addictive multiplayer action allowing 24 players to slug it out leading to some intense 
 fire fights utilising numerous weapons and vehicles for domination for strategic positions on the 
 battlefield.
  However, multiplayer in-game text can be difficult to read at times but is readable most of the 
 time so its not really something to bicker about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rvanallen21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I find it hard to understand how Gamespot can only give this game a 7.5 when GRAW was given a 9.2! 
 How many vehicles can you drive in GRAW? Zero. How many aircraft can you fly in GRAW? Zero. In 
 my opinion there is no competition here. BF2 wins hands down. Online play is fast, fun and extremely 
 addicting. Maps are huge and give you many options depending on specialty you choose. If you are 
 lucky enough to be in a clan or join a team that actually communicates, you'll dominate the other 
 side. I've played both the PC version and the 360 version and enjoyed both, but I really prefer 
 the 360 version. HD graphics and sound are awesome on a 55' widescreen TV with surround sound! 
 
  
  On the negative side, you can only play one player at a time. No split screen option as in GRAW. 
 While you have the ability to set-up online Clan games, you must join one of the existing servers 
 otherwise. In other words, you can't set-up a private game for just you and your friends (although 
 this might be possible in Clan mode, but I'm not sure.) .
  
  Bottom line, if you like military shooters this is a must have 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhybrid_bombX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was supiring a litlle less then I hoped for this game. Th e graphics are awsome and presice 
 and the game play is really nice the medals and raanks you can climb up to challnging but worth 
 it in the xbox live world which then u can show them off and make people reallt mad or glad on 
 your team but mostly mad.
  
  During the campaign mode I caught myself saying "SON OF A B*TCH" many many times as i was sniping 
 a they would always come up behand and kill me... The A. I. in this game has two levels really really 
 smart or **** Overall go buy this game and play some its worth it especialy if you have Xbox Live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zemper
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  It is normally like the pc battlefield, but this offers, a better story line, stability, 
  I love this game, you can make clans and then fight against other clans, there is a nice rank system, 
 in xbox live, and you gain enhancements wile plating the campaign, hey gamespot you should rise 
 the 7.5 to probably a 8.5 min.
  max 9.5, it offers a non-stoping fun, nice war, mayhem, in which you need to use team work, or 
 else, I will find your body, near a m1 abrams.
  
  Sure i will, play until reaching 5 star general, and thats more than 3000 pts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X9MMBULLETSX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  bfmc is an awesome game and i think is a must buy. i never had the xbox or ps2 1 but i played the 
 xbox 1 on my friends xbox and it was sweet so thats why i bought this. the only thing i hate about 
 this game is the 24 player max thing............ it should be 32 this is the next generation ea 
 and also would it be so hard to put in flippin deathmatch.......... hopefully patches come out like 
 cod2 and give us more options.
  
  gameplay=9 because u get so much satisfaction when killin online
  
  graphics=9 they look great, also 
 i had burnout revenge 360 and it looked nearly identical to its xbox version this dosent, this rocks 
 burnout gets 8.8 this gets 7.5 tut tut tut
  
  sound=7 wang sing bowwwwwww (artillery strike) guns good moaning pakistanis, chinese and american 
 people bad
  
  value= 9 until halo 3 
  
  tilt=10 what the **** tilt
  
  p. s pdz gets a 9 it sucks and king kong i mean king kong gets 8.2
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javierpc
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  This is my first review ever. I'm writing this because I think this is an awesome game and it deserves 
 a better score than a 7.5. I never played another BF before and I think that this is the best Xbox 
 360 best FPS since COD2.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is plain fun, nothing else. Very similar gameplay to COD2 with a few twists that make 
 the game very unique. I like the feature to use any player or vehicle available at your convenience.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are outstanding, very similar to COD2 but with better character models. Great effects. 
 You're going to like them.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is good, but not as good as other games like GRAW or COD2. They still very appropriate 
 for the game.
  
  Value:
  I haven't play this game on live, but the single player campaign is pretty long and full of different 
 roles that you will enjoy at all times.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you are a FPS addict you should buy this game, you won't regret it. Don't look the bad reviews, 
 I think that the people who wrote them are comparing the game with other versions of it. Hey, this 
 is NOT the same game. You're gonna love this game from the beginning to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numberone1one
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  Gamespot got it wrong, this is a Xbox Live must have!! a nine for the multiplayer on its own!! 
 the action is as fun as star wars battlefront 2 but as exiting as Call of duty 2. if you play alot 
 of multiplayer games or love Xbox live, you owe it to yourself. the only reason i havent spent 
 much time playing is because it is not out till friday in this country (U. K.) so ive got to play 
 in my freinds house who has an NTSC Xbox 360, but trust me as soon as it is out im down my local 
 to pick one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon62586
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst online FPS I've ever played. The only thing that sets this game over 
 the competition is vehicles and helicopters. There are definately some really cool aspects of this 
 game. Like the maps are huge, environments are not too bad. From what I've seen so far from the 
 online play, it runs very smooth even at the maximum players. So I appreciate that part of the 
 game. Other than that, the graphics are vrey generic. They didn't put any kind of detail in pretty 
 much anything. Actually I take that back, the guns look decent. The guns are too big, they tend 
 to cover the entire right side of the TV. The water effects are probably some of the worst 360 
 water effects I've seen thus far. Sound is definately the worst I've ever heard in a first person 
 shooter. Voiceovers, I found to be borderline offensive. The controls are all backwards from normal 
 FPS games. Jump is LB, prone is LT. Stuff like that makes it hard to come from another FPS to this 
 one. Takes a bit to get used to. Personally, this game doesn't offer anything that other FPS's 
 do. "But theres helicopters!!!" Everyone keeps saying that. The helicopters are cool and all, but 
 they get dull after a while. My biggest complaint on the game is how theres only 2 online game 
 modes. That's pathetic no matter how you look at it. Capture the Flag and Conquest. That's it. 
 Can't customize the matches either. It is what it is. Online play is mediocre at best. Single player 
 is HORRIBLE. I was not impressed in the slightest degree on the single player campaign. The storyline 
 was dull. If you absolutely MUST have this game, then go for it, but if it's more of a toss-up, 
 wait on this one. It's not worth the $59.99 it retails for. I do not recommend this game at all. 
 There are other games on the Xbox 360 that are much better than this. Play the demo on Xbox Live 
 Marketplace first, then make your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a7medy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  i realy think this game is one out of the best game in the xbox 360 it deserve better than this 
 alot this game is so fun i hhad already buy one in the xbox and this is my second in the 360 in 
 the xbox when i sow the review i realy said myself i wont buy it but then i sow a trailer i got 
 it . it was 1 out the best games in the 360 aafter halo 1 and 2 this my advice 2 evverbody dont 
 look 2 the review just go and buy 1 and thanks god that i ever wrote a review : ) thanks a lot 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright. doesnt really look like it should be on the xbox 360 but it will do. It does 
 add excitement buy going around shooting. But this game has a lot to follow when it comes to a 
 great game like goast recon. Battlefield i thought was supose to be like the pc version. But to 
 me it doesnt even seem close. What happened. Did EA lead us on because i think thye did just that. 
 This game looks great but is just alright. This game is alright. doesnt really look like it should 
 be on the xbox 360 but it will do. It does add excitement buy going around shooting. But this game 
 has a lot to follow when it comes to a great game like goast recon. Battlefield i thought was supose 
 to be like the pc version. But to me it doesnt even seem close. What happened. Did EA lead us on 
 because i think thye did just that. This game looks great but is just alright. This game is alright. 
 doesnt really look like it should be on the xbox 360 but it will do. It does add excitement buy 
 going around shooting. But this game has a lot to follow when it comes to a great game like goast 
 recon. Battlefield i thought was supose to be like the pc version. But to me it doesnt even seem 
 close. What happened. Did EA lead us on because i think thye did just that. This game looks great 
 but is just alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diderot
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Hi All, 
  
  This is an honest review. I'm not a flamer / fanboy. 
  
  This game is a flawed, unenjoyable excercise in frustration. Much opportunity was given to DICE 
 and EA to do something with this title... to add new gamplay elements, etc. What did EA and DICE 
 decide to do? Take the easy way out and milk the cash cow they made last year for Xbox. What is 
 the result? A game that is nearly identical to its Xbox counterpart with improved visuals? 
  
  It brings me back to the classic adage. Visuals do not a good game make. The proof is in the 
 gameplay... and in this respect the game is seriously 'arcadey' and in my opinion.. flawed. Just 
 as its predecessor was.
  
  I was eagerly awaiting this game, in truth it was part of the reason I picked up a 360 to begin 
 with. 
  
  SUMMARY: 
  
  Buy this game if you
  
  a) are a fan of ARCADE shooters, not TACTICAL shooters. 
  b) are under the age of 14.. honestly, 
 if I were still a kid I'd love this game. 
  c) you are rich and buy every game regardless of its quality. 
  
  Avoid this game if you
 
  
  a) have played the PC version
  b) own the Xbox version
  c) don't like having your tank taken out by a .50 cal weapon. 
  d) think that EA and DICE are 
 jerks for milking a franchise by presenting a game that was already made 2 years ago with a slight 
 graphical update and a couple new maps... for $60+...
  
  Thanks for taking the time to read. Just trying to save some people some coin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I think that Battlefield 2 is a great game for xbox or PS2, but if it was going to be put on 360 
 then they needed to put alot of revamping on the game. The graphics were okay, but there were many 
 errors and it didn't run smoothly like ghost recon or PDZ. Also the gameplay was mediocre compared 
 to all of the previous 360 games, even though i did enjoy the campaign. I still feel that this 
 game could have been so much more than it is if the creators would have put more effort on fixing 
 gliches and gameplay. The mulitplayer has potential only because it is an xbox game. The modes 
 in multiplayer are good but the game itself meeses up what could be great. In conclusion Battlefield 
 2 is nothing more than a crappy remake of a game from one console to another just to sell more 
 copies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  I have been a member since 2003. I love this site and will continue to use this site as my official 
 game HQ. But I do have to say that when it comes to games, you guys are real sticklers!!
  
  The gameplay is fun and addicting. I love the feel of the combat, though it doesn't hit you as 
 hard as Call of Duty 2. There has literally been no lag when playing online, even though I have 
 found myself being kicked off of the EA server quite a bit. The missions have there moments but 
 are all together kind of meaningless, meaning it doesnt feel as though there is a real elaborate 
 story or anything. Being able to hotswap from one area to another really keeps you in all sorts 
 of action, which is ,by the way, a very ingenious idea. 
  
  I would really recommend that you give this title a try before making your final judgement, because 
 hey, they did give Oblivion a 9.6.... which I feel is a 10. They have really set the next-gen game-standard 
 bar quite high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhopfing2
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  The fact you cannot lock down maps to your Friends and created custom matches really **** and doesn't 
 interest me. If you read the forums on the EA site many customers are unhappy with this. Take for 
 instance Call of Duty 2 kind of hosed up the online play when it first came out; but has repaired 
 it's problems and created a great online game. Being able to customize maps and lock down server 
 matches should be a staple to every online game. 
  
  Other Reviewer closing comments:
  For diehard folks who loved the first console version, this Xbox 360 version is an interesting 
 conundrum. It's better, but not by much. The 360 version of Burnout Revenge offered more advancements 
 than Battlefield. So, it's hard to recommend this, if you've already played the hell out of the 
 last fall's game. The other side of the coin is this: It's still a hell of a fun game with a great 
 online mode that functions better now that it did before. Plus, you'll get achievements. Such a 
 difficult choice to make! 
  
  Like I said earlier, if you own this game already and you want something totally different, skip 
 it. This is really a good port of an already existing game. If you love Battlefield and can't get 
 enough, go for it. And if you're totally new to the genre, get going. This is a hell of a fun game, 
 even if it's not the best Battlefield around
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  To start out i was expecting it to be like the xbox version, and it was but slightly better. It 
 is a good looking game, definetly better looking than the PC version of my PC AMD 2100 with radeon 
 9700 pro. It is equivalent to most (not all) high end PC's as well. But it does not play as well, 
 not have the sensitivety as the old mouse and keyboard. But one plus side to this everybody your 
 playing against has the same equipment, so it is basically the stock car equivalent to online gaming. 
 The only way a person can be better is to actually be better at the game. 
  
  The game is fun, but I cant see the longevity of lets say halo online. It is not worth $60, especially 
 if you have a decent PC, get the PC version, or wait for a price drop, or buy it used. 
  
  I would say gamespot's score of 7.5 is adequate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usaokay
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game and the demo, there's always explosions right beside you. EA has really 
 upgraded this game from the low-quality graphics to the High definition gameplay and graphics. 
 BF2: MC looks better on the 360 but it doesn't stand out BF2 on PC. BF2 offers mods, expansions, 
 and addicting medals. But BF2: MC offers Campaigns, Good graphics, and addiction achievements. 
 
  
  If you want to add a good game to your Xbox 360 collection, then start with this game. Every achievement 
 is easy to get if you played BF2: MC on the PS2. This is a MUST HAVE GAME FOR THE 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Very nicely done on and offline, not much to say but the clipping is not so gret : ( and 
 when your in scope and reload the animation is already haveway done nothing major just a couple 
 things they gotta fix :9
  
  Graphics: THE best visuals i have ever seen in an online game, GRAW had great graphics Offline 
 but not online, this games online has the graphic engine of the offline!! Graphics get :10
  
  Sound: Meh... not to great... not too bad... the gunshots sound good but otherwise genaric 
 stuff.... : 7
  
  Value: Since the online is the best on 360... replay gets :10
  
  TiLt: Better than PC ver. in my opinon (im gonna get flammed (: ) So buy it!! 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSockin3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game was being released for the 360 I was pumped. I heard that it would be exactly 
 like the xbox version with better graphics, which it is. In my opinion what can be better than 
 a game that you love with better graphics. Its the same great gameplay with amazing graphics. The 
 game is packed with small details that add the extra sense of immersion. You can be ripping on 
 a machine gun and look down to see a pile of spent brass. The damage is amazing as well. The game 
 has a wide variety of vehicles and weapons. The maps are very solid as well. Single player is nothing 
 special. If you dont have XBL then this game is not for you. If you loved the current gen version 
 of this game than you will love this version. If you didnt like the current gen version then dont 
 get this game, there is nothing new about it. If you havent played a modern combat game and you 
 are a fan of FPS then you need to try this game out. Like I said, multiplayer is where this game 
 is at. This is no doubt the best online 360 game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwm0nkey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Ol I just picked this game up and all I have to say is," This game is frickin sweet". I had the 
 game for the orginal Xbox and I loved playing that online even though there where some problems 
 and bad graphics. Well you dont have to worry about most of that anymore because the graphics are 
 sweet and some but not all car and tank problems have been fixed. Aside from multi-player this 
 game has a realy good single-player mode. The A. I has over hauled and is still a fun experince. 
 The only downside to this is that they are the same missions we played in the Xbox version. This 
 is a must buy for people who just like to blow stuff up and have a good time shooting people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is very underrated in my opinion. The graphics are gorgeous and the online is very intense 
 and fun! The sound is pretty decent, but the commentator can get annoying when you have surround 
 sound turned up loud. This game is the best online 360 game I've played so far. The replay value 
 in this game comes from the online part which can last for a very long time. The singleplayer doesn't 
 really have a "story", but its still pretty fun on singleplayer. Its been awhile since I've played 
 an online game like this and I love it. Even though it is a port there is some new content, but 
 the xbox version was awesome too. I haven't experienced really any lag at all online, and no framerate 
 drops. So all in all anyone who has xbox live should definitely pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Basically, this game is a port of the X-Box version with seriously enhanced graphics. As my X-Box 
 is mothballed... Im VERY happy to have this game back :D 
  
  The multiplayer in this game HANDS DOWN is the best console multiplayer ever. As for comparison 
 to the PC version. Imho, the console version runs better, elicites far fewer headaches, and streamlines 
 the gameplay. Most importantly the balance between infantry and vehicles is far better than the 
 PC versions which HEAVILY forced vehicle combat on the user.
  
  All in all this game is a must have for XBox360 owners, and for any fans of the original X-Box 
 version that are on the fense about a 360... it's time to upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwarrant98
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  If Ebert and Roupert rated video games they would give this 2 thumbs up! Really this game is awesome. 
 First, the graphics are just mind boggling!! Game play is awesome on multiplayer. I'm a huge COD2 
 fan and I'm gonna have to let that collect some dust while I play this game! It's a billion times 
 better than that horrible GRAW!!! Graw had good graphics, but it lacks the great multiplayer availabe 
 on BF2. I love the vehicles on land, sea, and air. There is nothing more wicked than parachuting 
 out of a f'in apache!!!! There is only one downfall, the lack of being able to not allow people 
 to use the sniper rifle, it needs to be restricted! Too many people use it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  this game was first released on ps2 and xbox which was last year now is out on xbox 360 and it's 
 awesome. alright it is great on ps2 and xbox but awesome on the xbox 360. one of the most biggest 
 and most exciting diffrences from the ps2 and xbox versions than the xbox 360 version is that the 
 graphics have been completely awesome and re-done since the ps2 and xbox versions of the game it's 
 just have awesome graphics and this game is a game that no one should miss if you gotta have have 
 it then on the xbox 360 cause it's rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhutchison
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  
  For casual gamers who do not wish to slave over a keyboard and mouse, this is surely the definitive 
 Battlefield experience. For every missing feature from the PC version, there is something cool 
 to replace it. From a graphical standpoint, this is hands down the best version of Battlefield 
 unless you own a $6000+ PC computer.
  
  Pros:
  
  + fast paced action with plenty of battlefield moments
  + detailed vehicle and character models
 
  + little, if any, multiplayer lag or slow downs
  + loads of weapons
  + excellent vehicle handling
  + plenty of tactical and team play possibilities
  
  Cons:
 
  
  - graphical aliasing can be distracting
  - the squads from the PC version are MIA
  
  For more Xbox 360 Battlefield coverage please visit:
  
  www. battlefield-360. com
  
  Note: 
 This early review is based on the Xbox 360 multiplayer demo for Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossotron
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  the rating gamespot gives this game is harsh. They do it for all sequels and ports if they do not 
 live up to the original which i think is unfair. this game should be rated on how good it is by 
 itself and not on how the pc version of the game "is sooo much better". They have also done with 
 this games like far cry.
  
  The bottom line is this is a great shooting game with awsome maps and vehcles............... if 
 battlefield 2 wasnt out on pc then this game would have scored much higher and thats why i am going 
 to rate it as it deservs to be rated.... indavidually 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
