-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlestations: Midway
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/midway/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great mix of strategy and action.
 Lots of different ships, planes, and subs to command.
 Intuitive controls make it easy to switch between functions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player campaign is too short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.4, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,368 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date: Jan 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battlestations: Midway strikes just the right balance between action and strategy to create a game 
 that's as unique as it is enjoyable. 

  If the gaming gurus at Milton Bradley have taught us anything, it's that battleships are made to 
 be sunk. It's a lesson that the creative minds at Eidos must be familiar with, because the publisher's 
 latest game, Battlestations: Midway, makes sinking the steel behemoths of the sea every bit as 
 satisfying as hearing a friend shout out, "You sank my battleship!" However, Battlestations: Midway 
 is more than a game about blowing ships out of the water; it's an interesting blend of action and 
 real-time strategy that does a remarkably good job of appealing to both tastes.  

          You can take to the skies as a fighter pilot...     

  Battlestations: Midway is set 
 in the Pacific Theater of Operations during World War II. In the single-player campaign, you play 
 as Henry Walker, a Navy recruit who shows up at Pearl Harbor just in time for the Japanese attack 
 in December, 1941. From there, your skills as a commander are put to the test in historical battles 
 such as the Battle of the Coral Sea and, eventually, the Battle of Midway. Between battles, you'll 
 see rendered cutscenes intended to develop a story about Henry Walker's rise through the ranks 
 to eventually become the captain of the massive aircraft carrier known as the USS Yorktown. The 
 dialogue in the story is forced and almost comically bad at times, but the characters do a decent 
 job of personalizing the battles, and it's gratifying to see your recruit go from cruising around 
 a harbor in a tiny PT boat to commanding fleets of ships out on the open sea. There are 11 missions 
 in the single-player campaign, and although some of those missions can easily take the better part 
 of an hour to complete, you can easily finish the campaign in four or five hours. There are 10 
 extra challenge missions focusing on specific types of units from both the Japan and US forces, 
 but the challenge missions aren't as exciting as the larger story battles. Despite these bonus 
 missions and the inclusion of a very good online multiplayer game, it's disappointing that the 
 single-player campaign is so short.  

  Although all the battles in the game are sea battles, there's enough variety in the missions and 
 the units at your disposal to provide a unique experience each time you play. You usually start 
 out with a handful of units at your command and a few simple objectives, such as destroying all 
 enemy carriers or defending your airfield. From there, it's entirely up to you how you go about 
 completing your objectives. For the larger battles, you'll probably find yourself spending most 
 of your time looking at the tactical map. It's a small map of the battle area that shows you everything 
 you need to know at a glance. Using this map, you can command all of your ships, subs, and planes 
 to move and attack. It takes a short while to get used to using the map and commanding sometimes 
 dozens of units at a time, but the level of detail isn't so fine as to require excessive micromanagement. 
 The artificial intelligence in the game works very well, and you never have to worry about your 
 units disobeying orders or behaving irrationally. The artificial intelligence is so good that in 
 the larger battles, you'll find the best strategy is to spend about 75 percent of your time commanding 
 units from the tactical map.  

  The other 25 percent of your time will be spent directly controlling your units, which is every 
 bit as fun as commanding them from afar. At any time, you can take control of any of your units 
 and do the dirty work yourself. You can captain a sub as it stalks an enemy cruiser, take to the 
 skies for an intense dogfight, man the antiaircraft guns on the deck of a battleship, manage the 
 operations of an airfield or shipyard, and more, all in a single battle. The units all have unique 
 controls, weapons, abilities, and limitations that you'll need to learn so as to make the best 
 use of all of your forces. This isn't a simulation game, though, so it doesn't take very long to 
 get a feel for each unit under your control. The ships, subs, and planes don't handle realistically 
 at all, but they are at least fairly well balanced against one another. You can feasibly take an 
 all-action approach to battle and forget about being a commander, but without proper support, you'll 
 have a hard time winning any battles. Taking a hands-off approach works better for developing a 
 strategy, but even then you'll want to jump into the action from time to time. There's a simple 
 but very distinct pleasure to be found in piloting an airplane and swooping in out of the skies 
 to dive-bomb a battleship or pelting the hull of a carrier with a volley of torpedoes from a submarine. 

          ... man the helm of a massive battleship...     

  Beyond going on strafing runs and commanding fleets of ships, you are given a few other responsibilities 
 in battle. There are shipyards and airfields in the game, as well as aircraft carriers. You can 
 command ships and squadrons of aircraft to deploy and attack or defend targets. As your squadrons 
 get shot down and your ships get sunk, it's up to you to deploy more. You're usually given a choice 
 of which type of ship or airplane you want to issue, as well as which weapons you want them to 
 use. It's an important decision because certain weapons are better against certain ships. If you 
 need to sink a sub, you'll need to send out some dive bombers equipped with depth charges, and 
 if you want to sink a cargo ship, your best bet is to send out a squadron of torpedo bombers. You 
 can only have a certain number of squadrons, airplanes, and ships active in battle at a time, but 
 as your units are destroyed, you can keep deploying new ones.     

  As you do battle, your ships will take damage. You can repair the damage by assigning crewmen to 
 focus on certain tasks, such as repairing leaks in the hull, extinguishing fires, or fixing the 
 engines. If your ship's hull takes too much damage, it can't be repaired and will quickly fill 
 with water and sink. Repairing your ships only takes a few seconds, and it doesn't require much 
 effort, but your ability to make quick repairs can greatly affect the outcome of a battle.  

          ... or captain a submarine to see if life really is better under the sea.     

  The 
 multiplayer game plays just like the single-player game, but with all of the units being commanded 
 by real, live players, the battles can vary wildly. There are nine multiplayer maps, many of which 
 are taken directly from the single-player game. You can play with up to seven other players, each 
 player commanding a specific ship, fleet, or squadron. The battles are all team-based, and you 
 can choose to play as Japan or US forces. Each side has unique units, but they are still balanced. 
 The maps aren't quite as balanced, though, with one side often starting at a significant disadvantage. 
 Even then, sound tactics and good communication between teammates can easily give an underdog the 
 upper hand in a battle. As with any multiplayer game, your enjoyment depends on the people you're 
 playing with, but that goes double here because of the higher level of cooperation and strategy 
 required in these battles.  

  Battlestations: Midway is available on the PC and the Xbox 360, and the biggest difference between 
 the two games is the price. The PC version is $20 cheaper, which makes the Xbox 360 version a tougher 
 pill to swallow. If you're playing the Xbox 360 version, you can earn some achievements by doing 
 things like using a specific unit for a certain amount of time during a battle, shooting down a 
 number of enemy planes, or sinking a certain number of enemy ships. The controls are intuitive 
 and easy to manage in both versions of the game. The PC version does support gamepads, and playing 
 with the Xbox 360 gamepad works just as well on the PC as it does on the console. Another difference 
 worth noting is that the PC version uses third-party software to connect to online games. The service 
 works just fine, but it's still not as quick and easy as playing on Xbox Live.  

  The two versions of the game both look and sound good. You can turn up the visual effects in the 
 PC version of the game and get it looking comparable to the Xbox 360 version. Regardless of which 
 version you play, the visuals look good, but they aren't especially impressive. The ships are detailed 
 down to the tiny crewmen walking around on deck, and you can enjoy some nice views of the Pacific 
 islands from the cockpit of a fighter plane. You'll occasionally see some rough spots like when 
 objects suddenly pop into view as you approach, or flat land textures, but for the most part, Battlestations: 
 Midway looks good and runs smoothly. But the game leans more toward real-time strategy than action, 
 so you'll spend most of your time looking at the tactical map. If you're playing the Xbox 360 version 
 on a standard-definition display, you'll probably have a hard time reading some of the text, which 
 can be a problem because there's a lot of small type that you'll need to be able to read. It's 
 not such a problem that it renders the game unplayable, unless perhaps you're playing the game 
 on a very small television.  

          You'll spend most of your time in battle commanding units from the tactical map.     

 
  The score in Battlestations: Midway is rousing and dramatic, just as you'd expect in a game about 
 historical naval battles. The tunes also change depending on whether you're fighting for Japan 
 or the US, which subtly sets the tone in battle. The voice acting in the cutscenes could be much 
 better, but it's not terrible. While you're in battle, you'll hear your subordinates report to 
 you with updates about the condition of your units, and these updates are often the best way to 
 keep track of what's happening. It's also a nice touch that you hear different sounds on the tactical 
 map based on which unit you have selected, which is also a good way to gauge what's happening. 
 If you're playing as the forces of Japan, you'll hear your pilots and captains shout in Japanese, 
 but even if you don't speak the language, it still helps clue you in about one of your ships being 
 in trouble. The explosions and engine noises all sound powerful and distinct, and some of the more 
 intense battles sound particularly impressive, with artillery, torpedoes, bombs, and machine guns 
 all going off at once.  

  Battlestations: Midway strikes a balance between action and strategy that makes it uniquely appealing. 
 The strategy isn't especially in-depth, but it is accessible and satisfying. The action portion 
 of the game is also kept very simple, which works in the game's favor by making it easy to switch 
 gears between the two different parts of the game. The action is also exciting enough to make it 
 worth your while to jump into battle, if only for a few minutes at a time. The single-player game 
 is sadly way too short, but the online multiplayer game is at least a small consolation. And while 
 it lasts, Battlestations: Midway is a very fun game to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (86 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GraySpeed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Things that you may not know how to do:
  
  Part I. Send units to guard friendlies
  1. Select a unit using the gameplay screen
  2. Go to map view
  3. Highlight the friendly unit 
 and press 'A'
  Note: A green line should form in-between your unit and your friendly unit
  
  Part II. Give units to teammates
  1. Select a unit other than the one you want to give away
 
  2. Go to map view
  3. Highlight the unit you would like to give away
  4. Click the left thumbstick and select the username of the receiver
  Note: You can give units 
 to people who are in spectator mode (people who were killed or wiped out of the battle)
  
  Part III. Pericopes and Binoculars
  1. Position your submarine using the up and down buttons 
 on the d-pad so that it is just below the water
  or
  If you have a ship ignore the above and skip to step 2.
  2. Press 'Y'
  3. Use the left thumbstick 
 to zoom (press up and back)
  
  Part IV. Orders
  1. Hold 'X' when viewing a unit
  2. Use the left thumbstick to select your order
  Note: Regroup - Brings your planes back into 
 formation; Attack - Attacks the target
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I like the game and it does alot of thing well but I cant help but notice the game can get a little 
 to technical which can sometimes put a damper on the aciton and the game at times is a little slow 
 to react which I hate but still its a really good navel shooter that uses planes bouts and even 
 submarines which are a great addition and by using these weapons you can do massive damage to the 
 enemy which is very climactic and very rewarding sometimes it gets difficult and I'll even say 
 annoying but just the fighting part of this game makes it very fun and anyone that is a fan of 
 world war 2 especially the pacific campain should play this game the one thing they could have 
 done better is the save system no checkpoints nothing this can get difficult on the harder levels 
 if you die you have to start all over but thats not so bad on alot of levels Im sure people would 
 want to replay them just to see the awsome grapchis and explosions another thing they should have 
 done is improve the flight simulation portion of the game I thought it was a bit lacking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Kedrowski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Was a very fun single player game, but was way to short. Also, some of the secondary missions are 
 almost impossible to beat without a big stroke of luck. Also, some levels can take 30-40 minutes, 
 but you don't get any checkpoints or saves. This gets to be very frustrating when playing on the 
 harder levels, such as veteran. I have literally been seconds from beating a level and I'll lose, 
 it was about 60 minutes down the drain. They could have also had an off-line multiplayer. It is 
 very disappointing that games are completely straying away from whole concept of not having to 
 play online to be able to play against your friends. This could have brought the games some more 
 playing time. Other than those problems, the game was a great new idea and the overall gameplay 
 was very immersive. You have control of everything in this game. Whether you are torpedoing a carrier 
 to the bottom of the sea or are gunning a Zero down, this game can be very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangerboy6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I found the game rather entertaining to be honest. Has some decent cut scenes and good mix of unit 
 controls. The historic value is pretty close as far as games go, so thats not to shabby. Overall 
 i thought it was worth the price and the replay is pretty good. I think that it could have been 
 a little longer, but overall i think it was still pretty good. Online makes it even better, especially 
 if you get with some people who actually have some idea of what they are doing. Cant wait for Battlestations 
 Pacific next year! Would recomend to anyone who has any interest in Naval or general  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciedakilla
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Battlestations Midway is one of the best War games ive played. ( mostly cos i like the ship battles 
 in the WWs ) . Battlestations Midway takes you from defending Pearl Harbour from the Japanese all 
 out attack, to fighting them back from Midway. There is a good amount of ships and planes, ranging 
 from PT's, submarines, destroyers, battleships, to even aircraft carriers and fighter planes such 
 as Wildcats and Japanese Zeros to the B-14 Flying Fortress. There are also bonus ship, planes and 
 submarine missions to play which are for experienced players. You can control the immense battleship 
 'Yamato' to chase after a Carrier task force and absolutley pulverise them, to controling airplanes 
 to halt the advance of the British Task Force Z. 
  
  I gave it a 9/10 because it is a fun game and it makes you feel like your in World War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  i love this game because there isent just one thing to command you have plenty of other vessels 
 and planes and subs, and it gives you stratergy and action in one game. And also the multi player 
 is also good because it allows up to four players in one game and that makes it a really good challenge 
 but also the graphics are good they me give a good sence of wat it was like on a ship in ww2 and 
 it gives u a large range of weponsthat are on the shipa eg: cannons, AA guns, depth charges, and 
 all lot more, but mostly i love going around in a plane and shooting down the other enemy planes 
 and bombing ships because me and other friends make a contest by seeing who can get the most kills 
 before shoot out of the sky. but the only thing worng with the game is that it is to short in campain 
 mode, but i would still recomend it to friends or other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mervyn1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  
  This was a decent game but could have been so much more, the game idea was great and the gameplay 
 safe, It lacked in how long the game lasts it does take a little time to learn hom to control you 
 plane but it is to easy as the Ai is not the best so you can last long enough to get the hang of 
 a mission.
  
  The biggest danger when flying is your own handeling of the palne and with the altitude meter not 
 very accurate you find yourself if not paying enough attention flying into the water or ground, 
 yes you see the ground comming but the sea is different with no remarkable feature you never sure 
 how close you actually are.
  
  The main story was to short allthough the missions could last upto and occasionally beyond half 
 hour. Apart from the first mission at peral Harbour i never really felt part of war, pearl gave 
 a slightly intense look at war as Japanese planes are blowing up things around you and also trying 
 to blow you up.
  
  Even when you dive bomb a ship there is a lack of anti aircraft fire, don't get me wrong there 
 is some but it never felt like they were trying hard to hit me many a time when dive bombing a 
 fleet of Jap ships they all can miss you fair enough your a moving target but it could be more 
 intense.
  
  i did enjoy the game in it's limted entirity and good fun for a bit but as with many games in this 
 mould there is no save point after you have done the majority of a mission if you make a mistake 
 you have to start again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I did not expect a whole lot from this game at all. However, after playing only the first mission 
 I was hooked. It took a long time to get to the first mission though. The tutorial took a little 
 more than an hour to complete. And believe you me, it was a boring hour. There is no way to skip 
 through parts, and you have to listen to everything the trainer has to say, which I thought was 
 a bit annoying, and you can not perform the action being taught until the trainer is completely 
 done his speech, also annoying. But with the complexity of the controls, the tutorial is pretty 
 much necessary.
  The Campaign is kind of short, with the total number of missions equaling around ten. Those missions 
 can be done a hundred different ways though, making the replay value fairly high. The missions 
 start with the Japanese raid on Pearl Harbor and end with the climatic battle at Midway, the turning 
 point of the Pacific war. The number of units that can be controlled is pretty impressive. Basically 
 if you can command it, you can control it. From PT boats to Aircraft Carriers, to whole Carrier 
 groups. I am partial to the flying units. They are fun to fly and have the feel of a real WW2 fighter. 
 I liked to issue orders to my fleet and launch the planes, take control of a plane until I needed 
 to issue order again. Sometimes, though, I hardly got off the map screen (were the orders are most 
 easily given from) , thats how intense the combat can be. 
  After completing the Campaign I jumped into completing the Challenges. The Challenges are divided 
 into 3 categories; Plane challenges, Ship Challenges and Submarine Challenges. Mostly fought from 
 the Japanese perspective, they are not just a simple rehashing of the Campaign. I found the Challenges 
 to be a bit harder than the Campaign, so it has been taking me a while to get through them. One 
 of the plane missions was particularly difficult. You have to defend a Jap airfield against an 
 onslaught of US B-17 bombers, pretty tough.
  The graphics are not nearly as next gen as they could be, but I hardly noticed or cared once things 
 got under way. As I mentioned before the controls are a bit complex. Early on I found myself hitting 
 the wrong buttons in the heat of battle and on more than one occasion I had to stop look at my 
 controller and think about which buttons i wanted to push. But after a couple of missions, that 
 all cleared up and it was smooth sailing from there on out. Neither of these two minor issues is 
 enough to make me give Battlestations: Midway lower than an eight. I would defiantly recommend 
 this game to any fan of military history. I can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlestations: Midway is a game that toes the line between action and real time strategy. It does 
 a good job of it too. The game can be played either from an entirely action point of view that 
 has the player driving the ships, planes, and subs plus shooting all of the guns yourself, or a 
 player could sit back and control tactics by prioritizing targets and doing flanking maneuvers 
 without ever actually controlling a single gun or driving an actual vehicle. I found it best to 
 do a bit of both. The flying is a bit tough, so I would tactically control my fighters and let 
 them do their thing. While they were out doing their assigned task, that left me free to jump into 
 the action with the ships.
  
  The game is short, which is why I was glad that I rented it, but it is very well paced. You start 
 with control of a single PT Boat, but by the end of the game you are in control of two carriers, 
 PBY's, multiple destroyers, cruisers, and dozens of attack aircraft. The game is by no means super 
 easy, so after defeating a mission, you have a real sense of accomplishment. If you haven't played 
 Battlestations: Midway yet, and you're looking for something a bit different from your normal shooter 
 or rpg, then give the game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday4500
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Check how much money you have, because this is a game everyone should expierience. Battlestations 
 Midways is a real time strategy game mixed with airplane combat. I love this game (and I don't 
 usually like strategy games) . In the cut scenes the graphics are stand out AMAZING! They are probably 
 the best graphics I've ever seen. You command ships and can command them in a fleet. You can actually 
 see the little sailors on the ship. You usually have if you have a good ship: torpedoes, AA guns, 
 artillery, and depth charges. The torpedoes are for enemy ships. They take a while to hit, so you 
 have to be very close, shoot very far ahead of the boat, or have a very good shot. The AA guns 
 are aircraft (AA means anti-aircraft) . Artillery is just shells you can shoot and is your primary 
 weapon. Depth Charges are charges you drop in the water for enemy submarines. You can also pilot 
 small U boats which contain torpedos and AA guns. They are very fast but will get defeated by big 
 boats if you can't dodge quick enough. You can also control submarines. The submarines will get 
 AA guns and torpedos. Submarines can be on top where they are visible and most vunerable. They 
 can also be in 3 different levels of water. The 2nd is the only spot where you can fire torpedos 
 besides being on above the water. The 3rd level you are out of range from depth charges, but you're 
 still on radar. The 4th level you are out of sonar, but you are physically not safe and every second 
 your down there your hull loses health. Also every second you're underwater you lose air. When 
 you run out you automatically come up. My favorite is the airplane. You can carry a fleet of airplanes 
 up to 3. You can shoot other planes or drop bombs or topedos too. The best part of this game is 
 the online multiplayer. It's just fun to have 8 players in a full blown battle.
  
  Gamplay: 9
  Story: 9
  Sound: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Overall: 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  So its around 1940's World War 2 and it's a good game because of the original content on the 360. 
 One topic about range of games will come up every time you enter a gamer shop and perhaps you should 
 rent this one out first, if you like fast games this might not satisfy your needs. But give it 
 a try cause you could fall for it. 
  
  
  I would give a Battle stations Midway game a high score, its fun entertainment and also quite a 
 challenge, nice graphics, calming sound FX.
  
  Cons. Some of the challenges seem a little deprived, with not a lot of thought gone into the game 
 players need for tactics, the game was tough from the begining but I don't know if it comes relentless 
 further on the levels.
  
  I rented this game for 6 days, and completed half the tutorial and one mission. There are over 
 20 missions, including subs, planes US and Japs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Ah World War II, every video game developer's favorite era and this time around you're putting 
 to sea. Yes, Battlestations Midway, covers the one aspect of World War II that is never explored 
 to it's fullest potential, i. e. the exploits of the navy. 
  
  Through out the single player game you take on the role of a young US Navy officer, starting out 
 with a single PT Boat, you eventually work your way up to command of an entire fleet, including 
 carriers, aircraft, submarines, destroyers, and battleships. The best aspect of this is you can 
 switch between the various warships and aircraft under your command. 
  
  During the campagin you get a chance to interact with famous figures of the Pacific War, including 
 a young PT Boat Captain, Lt. John F. Kennedy. Later on you can also take on a variety of single 
 player solo missions that allow you to experance the war from either the Japanese or US perspectives. 
 
  
  During the game you are not only responsible for sinking the enemy fleets, but also repairing any 
 damage your ship sustains, and just like real ships the damage they take affects their preformance 
 in battle. 
  
  The game presents realistic deptictions of US and Japanese aircraft and warships from the early 
 Pacific War. However dispite this, the game is plagued by several flaws. The first is the length 
 of it's single player campain, which covers the period between the Attack on Pearl Harbor and the 
 Battle of Midway. The second is a lack of detail in terms of historical accuracy, some of the biggest 
 of which include an attack on the Japanese Battleship IJN Fuso early in the war, when the real 
 Fuso was sunk at the Battle of Leyte Gulf in 1944 and the appearence of multipul Yamato Class Battleships 
 when only two were completed. The third and most important is the controls, especally in stratagey 
 mode, the controls can be increadibly difficult to master, especally on the stratagy maps used 
 for planning and executing airstrikes, and naval bombardments.
  
  Despite these flaws Battlestations Midway provides an entertaining experance for both naval and 
 air buffs, while the player actually has to wrestle with the difficulties of command. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  Battlestations midway is the best navel ship simulator for the Xbox 360 I have ever played. 
  
  The game play is very good but some of the missions are short and some of them are too long 
 the ships that you have are real ships in the United States navy that served in Pearl Harbor and 
 destroyed by the japans navy. 
  
  You can have every thing on automatic e. g. you can have the guns on automatic and they will target 
 the enemy are fire at them while you stear the ship away from enemy ships and submarines 
  
  The sound is very good, the engines sound is very good and when you fire your weapons they 
 are the real thing and if you have them on automatic they will fire at the enemy. 
  
  This game could be a little bit better because some times the ship does what she wants to do and 
 not what you want it to do, 
  
  The controllers could be better sometimes you want to steer the ship and the engines slow down, 
 when you want them at full to avoid the enemy. 
  
  So if you really want to steer and sail Naval cruse ships and fight enemy aircraft and ships and 
 blow submarines out of the water then I would suggest that you borrow it first to see if you like 
 it, 
  
  I mean I really love ships so I brought this game and love it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this is was like "Wow". This game rocks. The gameplay was truely awesome. 
 I loved it! I 100% love commanding ships in a map mode and first person commanding them. The gameplay 
 is awesome! It's basicailly a mix of FPS and RTS. That's why I love this game. For example, I'll 
 send PT boats to soften the enemy destroyers but, how am I gunna defend them against enemy aircraft?? 
 Oh yea, send my Wildcats in for air cover. Oh no, whats gunna happen if the cruisers kill my fighters??? O 
 yea, send in the submarine etc. The game takes a RTS time challange but is still able to take on 
 a FPS challange as well. Thats what I love about this game. Any time I'm sending in my ships, I 
 can control them first hand. The game's units are very cool and realist. The battleships are slow 
 but powerful. The destoyers are fast but have weak attack. The b-17s can level huge targets but 
 cannot get them accurately etc. You get the picture. Also the game has a small selection of other 
 missions that you can do if you get bored or want practice. The game's graphics are pretty neat 
 for this 360 verison.
  
  However the game is so short! 11 missions! C'mon! This game is so amazing and your only going to 
 put 11 missions in. WTF? Also no map maker?? If your gunna make a short game you should have a 
 map editor so you can make your own missions. I have not tried the multiplayer so I cannot judge 
 that yet. I recommend this game to people how like FPS games but also like RTS games.
  
  +graphics
  +gameplay
  -short
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashingReddog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say this has got to be one of my most favorite games of all time! You have four games styles 
 in one, first person, third person, shooter, and real time strategy. Even if your not a WWII buff 
 the game play is awesome. You control planes, subs, and ships, fight for Japan or USA. The career 
 is just the right amount of length. This is the first game I actually LIKED the cut scene movies. 
 Most in game movies are out and out boring! Online play is so much fun, I have made so many online 
 friends playing this game. I also bought the extra map for 800 credits and it was well worth it. 
 I actually am hoping they come out with more maps for purchase while we wait for BSM 2. If you 
 ever get the chance to pick it up; get it; you will not be disappointed. I know I will be playing 
 it for years to come. This is a definate classic to be.
  SmashingReddog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipsta95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Altough i have never played it i have heard and watched gameplay videos of it and they should of 
 made one for ps2 but ok they didnt. 
  
  The game takes place in the pacific in some of the most historic battles durring this time. You 
 can poilet american wildcats or japanese zeros which is just the begining. You can be captain on 
 japanese warships or american warships. You can silently stalk a japanese or american warship with 
 a submarine or pumble land with bombs and salvos from ships. If you want to you can take control 
 of bettys or B-17s and sink carriers. 
  
  The first level i think takes place in pearl harbor were you are trying to prevent any ships sinking 
 and note this your in a patrol boat. Kind of hard to me if you think about it. Another level that 
 i know of is striking tulagi. The americans are trying to distroy the japanese airfield and shipyard 
 so the american landing boats and take the island later on to the middle of the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructabom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlestations Midway Review:
  
  I have recently just got this game at first i thought that it was brilliand but as i progressed 
 through the game i realised that it was missing some things that i belive would have made it better.
 
  
  This game has got a great storyline. It starts off a bit boring just in a small patrol boat for 
 the first few missions which can be a bit boring when all you want to do is get to the battleships 
 and cause destruction. One of the dissapointing parts of the campain missions is tha you can only 
 use the submarine once which is one of the better vessels i think. 
  
  I think that the graphics are good but the planes could wave done with a bit more detail. The water 
 effects are suprisingly good when bombed of fired on. 
  
  This game could have used a mode where you can just go and make your own fleet and attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is a relatively new concept to a World War two game, not a shooter? this really is different! 
 its like Pacific Warriors for the Playstation2, you control a set of units that you construct from 
 an already set base, so very much like a sort of third-person rts thing and go about your objectives.
 
  This all seems very well as the game does have an engaging campaign mode, while it lasts, because 
 of the nice storyline you may feel that this could be fleshed out alot more to satisfy you entirely 
 and make the gameplay more varied. But thats alright, you can have a good old skirmish online... 
 hang on... thats right no-one is on! thats a waste of time, but when people ARE online the gameplay 
 is pretty awesome and varies from objectives like destroying bases to kicking ass at long range, 
 but as i said, getting online is just about as lucky as finding a DVD easter egg at the bottom 
 of the ocean! But, there are challenges for you to complete, with three different sections, the 
 submarine, plane and Battleship.
  The visuals in Midway are overall satisfying with some nice effects, for example the trails of 
 smoke following damaged planes or the explosions following the destruction of a vessel's magazine, 
 and also the overall maps that you play in may be basic but at the same time look effective in 
 adding to the tactics needed in-battle.
  The bad points are that after you have completed the campaign and challenges, as i have, there 
 is little else to do as the online is hardly accessable at any given time.. the only thing that 
 is probable to bring you back for more is to unlock more campaign acheivements and the like.
  My advice is that if you know that there will be someone up for a challenge with you online, there 
 is no split-screen (!) , then this should satisfy for long enough as there are lots of maps and varied 
 things to do online but the campaign is just too short and if there is a Midway 2 or some other 
 form of sequel, they should expand and flesh out alot more to make this an excellent game.
  
  /HiiperDrive Out\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamma15
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is all right, but lacks good graphics. Graphics overall leave much to be deserved. 
 Don't get me wrong; seeing smoke trails left by planes crashing into the sea is cool, but it's 
 not done in next (current) gen graphics.
  
  Online... what online? There's hardly anyone on. More people play the online demo. It's free! Big 
 mistake. 
  
  The challenges can be fun, but you have to be an expert in order to complete most of them.
  
 
  The A. I. is good. You can let the A. I. do bombings, and they usually succeed, so long as they 
 don't get killed first. However, I've had the experience that the A. I. doesn't do too well in Torpedo 
 Bombing. For ship to ship battle, the A. I. is usually spot on. I usually switch to the A. A. guns 
 so as to let the A. I. use the main cannons while I steer.
  
  Torpedoes bring up another complaint; They're too slow. You have to get into point blank range 
 in order to use them effectively against faster ships, such as Cruisers and Destroyers. Battleships 
 tend to travel slower, so you can get better luck off of them.
  
  Skirmish mode is... absent. You can't set up a match between you and the A. I. All you have is Campaign, 
 the expert only Challenges, and the almost vacant Online.
  
  The only thing that keeps this game going is it's concept. It's RTS/TPS (Real Time Strategy/Third-Person 
 Shooter) concept is pretty well done. Currently, Eidos is supposedly developing a new Battlestations 
 Midway (name may be changed) so download the online demo, and if you like the concept, E-mail Eidos 
 telling them to make the 2nd one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARO1993
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is really unnoticed. Its not hyped like Halo, so it doesn't have a huge launch 
 center and stuff like other games, but it is still a very good game. The gameplay is very tactical, 
 and takes a while to master, but once you get to understand the controls and objectives it reall 
 is a very addictive game. At first you may have to spend lage amounts of your battles commanding 
 your units from an overview map. This isn't too boring and requires you to think, but everybody 
 wants to get in on the action some time or another. This problem clears up as you get better because 
 you can plan things a lot easier, giving you more time to pull of attack runs, shoot down planes, 
 and pilot submerines. This isn't a game for people that want nothing less then Call of Duty unrelentless 
 action, but there are times when things are definitly taken up a notch. Your flying a plane through 
 the skies and things are blowing up all around you and all you want is to drop the bombs in the 
 cargo bay in time, and your mind is racing, but because things arent constantly this intense is 
 why some people might not like it, and I can understand why. There are times in between each battle 
 where you are preparing that don't sustain the intese atmosphere, but I personally feel that the 
 more you plan the better you feel when pulling off a successful destruction of an enemy base. Online 
 is just as good as the campaign. The only problem is that bitchy kids tend to quit when losing, 
 and since battles tend to go on for about 30 minutes on average it can get really frusterating. 
 Youll be wrecking his island defences and then it will say so and so left GAME TERMINATED. Then 
 on top of that the next screen tells you mission failure and your thinking to yourself "WTF I JUST 
 BEAT THE CRAP OUT OF THAT KID!" But don't think all kids act that way! there are still kids that 
 play through, but things are definitly best if you play one on one with a friend, because things 
 get REALLY INTENSE if both of you know what your doing. You'll definitly have lots of fun. When 
 I got it i spent like 10 back to back matches fighting my friend for about 31/2 hours straight. 
 Really great game, only thing that I would complain about a little is the graphics. By no means 
 are they bad, just not immersive to the point that you feel like more advanced games. But take 
 my word for it that this is definitly a good game, and will remain under appreciated, but that 
 doesn't mean you and your friends cant have a blast playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbrain120
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  That's how bad this game was, like wow cruising around for an hour in a dinky fishermans boat was 
 so cool NOT and like wow just wow This was the worst game ever made involving a bunch of cool events 
 in world history. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone even if I was offerd cash. Its like 
 think before u act developers and don't make so an epidemic that will crush the lives of thousands. 
 I would save the money while you still have it and buy a good game like gears of war or call of 
 duty 4 now these take war gaming to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll get right to the point. This game's single player sucks. End of story.
  
  This game however is golden at online play. I can't really explain what the hell it is but, being 
 able to control a huge battleship that has enough firepower to sink a carrier is just awesome. 
 Not to mention when you get online with up to 8 people and each one of you gets control of various 
 aircraft, and ships, you have a blast. This game will literally keep you playing match after match 
 until the early morning. 
  
  The game even in it's glorious multiplayer does have some issues, such as the clipping between 
 ships....... I never really knew you could ram head on into a ship, bounce off, and do a barrel 
 roll in the water. SO some major physical problems. The game also has some balance issues, such 
 as the Destroyer vs a Heavy battleship. Yes I know you say but Bob its a battleship. But when my 
 little dinky destroyer can all but fire off a few torpedos which also take a obnoxious time to 
 reload while this hulking beast can unleash one shot and instantly vaporize my boat seems a little 
 unfair.
  
  Not that I think it's nubish or anything but it just kinda means you see the same kind of styles 
 in a game. Build big ass battleship", "Sail to enemy boat yard, while vaporizing any resistance", 
 "Laugh at the people that just got owned by you in the lobby"
  
  This game does a great job in the multiplayer aspect and is a must buy for any xbox live subscriber. 
 It will be interesting to see any patches they may release for this game, and you really can't 
 beat it considering its probably about to go Classics soon and be a meager twenty dollars which 
 is well worth the endless entertainment you can get out of the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3429
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I thought this game would be awesome.. a chance to use an entire naval fleet to smash the enemy. 
 Unfortunately this gun fessed has turned out to be more of a knitting conference. There is just 
 too much micro-management, send this ship here and that plane then... then land rearm and attack... well 
 in a week or two when they finally reach their target... all this, which I thought would be beneficial 
 are actually annoying and mean you spend less time shooting and more time pointing.... this doesn't 
 equal fun.
  
  Also the graphics aren't all that, the smoke is patchy and explosions are poor. Having said that 
 the sound is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  This games should get more credit the time that was taken to make the clouds, and the water I think 
 it looks amazing. I think people should try this game on Multiplayer first. Yes, the Campaign is 
 short, but so was the Campaign on Halo 2 and the Multiplayer and grapics made up for that. I think 
 the same happened with this game. Just give this game a chance before you say anything bad about 
 it. Also, it has some great parts to it that make it even better. The Dogfighting in different 
 planes. Being able to control a lot of different ships, and the 8 player multiplayer. You can also 
 play as the Japanese side in Multiplayer. I think this game is just awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerocoolness
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  this game could have been made so much differently.
  
  for one- the single player is very boring. and since its a rts of sorts, the fact it has NO skrimish 
 is very very very disapointing.
  
  you dont get to pick your ship load out. which is totaly lame. you only get to pick a slot which 
 has a pre-determined ship lay out. (multiplayer)
  
  in single player you just have watever is scripted.
  
  for multi player, what they should have 
 done is a rainbow six style upgrade.
  
  everytime you battle you should get xp. earning yourself ranks. each rank should unlock a ship 
 you can use.
  
  then on multiplay, you should be able to select the ship you want. not just a pretermined set up...
 
  
  
  asides from the many flaws in the set up, the game play is AWESOME.
  the graphics are nice
  the water is nice
  the ships are pretty
  the gunning system is easy 
 to learn, hard to master (good imo)
  tons of ships and cvs
  good balance (could be better but for the most part ever unit has a counter unti)
  fun to play
 
  online community is older and more mature.
  
  but the downside is the limited choices for the maps and ship set ups....
  had they done an open 
 style pick (like most rts where you get to build watever you want) then the game would be a top 
 seller.
  
  too bad they blew it....
  but i still play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmarshmellow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Starting off in pearl harbour in a wooden hulled torpedo boat, the experience is quite dull and 
 short. It is very similar to the first level in Medal Of Honour... The other missions are still 
 pretty limited as you either defend or attack and then once you've completed the short storyline 
 in just one night (guaranteed for the average gamer) you can begin the challenges. Strafing ships 
 which are supposedly 'escaping' becomes a hassle and then we have to defend the japanese base.... Xbox 
 live has to be the best feature in this game with up to 100 units at your command you can crash 
 into each other time and time again without the game losing its exciting hold. If you don't have 
 Xbox live then stay away unless you plan on using that 7 day guarantee!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan6692
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay first the campaign. Not as good as I hoped it would be. I played it on Rookie and still lost. 
 The battleship are slow and sometime they don't even get into formation, and whats up with the 
 captains voice. I mean he sound like he should be in the 7th grade. The Multiplayer it where it 
 hits rock bottom. I never got to play a match cause people keep kicking me so they could play with 
 friends. I really had high hopes for this game but i think Ill take it back now. The graphics 
 change a lot. Good in cut scenes ok in game play. I want the graphics to not change. All in all 
 this game is not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a very well made game, in regards to it's unique gameplay. With a mixture of RTS and FPS, 
 it does well to capture the essense of WW2 combat. every unit is unique in how it can help to swing 
 the momentum of each battle. Never underestimate a Destroyer or forget about those pesky Sub's. 
 While some maps might be a quick fire fight of might and power, others can take over 1hr to complete.
 
  It's graphics aren't 360 standards (originally a xbox game) , but they do well to give the game 
 life. Audio and game play are simply amazing, the 5.1 setup I have sounds amazing. Being able to 
 barrel roll and still be able to hear where shots are coming from does get the blood pumping. Sadly 
 enough, the developers didn't give this game enough depth, to give it longevity. No squad function 
 hurt this game, how bad, for me, lots, but w/ the games cult following, I'm sure we can get something 
 going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The game starts graphics look fine, menu and all perfect 360 expectations, loading..... OMFG what 
 is that, 1 shade of blue see with pixelated planes and boats everywhere. Now you start in a tiny 
 board getting unrealistically shoot by around half the worlds population of planes!
  
  And trying to avoid them is not an option, but to know fault of your own, instead its the fault 
 of a very unthought out control system leaves you floating puzzled, not only this but the controls 
 are different for every single different vechicle and is a nighmare.
  
  Was never happy to complete a game ever!
  
  As I am a collector I dont do trade ins but this 
 is my first on list if I do!
  
  Its not all bad it was okay to get points and some enjoyment out of, but there more enjoyment in 
 mashed potatoes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Okay this game pretty much blows. I don't know why I bought it... I thought it would turn out great 
 but nah... It missed the spot.
  
  The graphics are not worthy of being on the 360.
  
  The gameplay is okay though. It's not complicated switching between your planes your subs and your 
 ships. It's simple and smooth. The campaign shouldn't be bothered with though. It's so bad I didn't 
 even bother finishing it. The multiplayer is fun except for the little kids who go around suiciding 
 their units.
  
  Overall don't spend your money on this game. Go get Battle for Middle Earth or Command and Conquer 
 3. Those will be your best bets if your into RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammy_Dodger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Battlestations Midway is an ambitious game which doesnt quite pull off every trick it sets out 
 to achieve but gets away with most of them. The idea is to give the player command of naval units 
 in the pivotal battles of the Pacific war during WWII. This is done using a combination of hands-on 
 combat by controlling ships, aircraft and subs, and planning of overall strategy using a tactical 
 map.
  
  The various units are fairly easy to control and the large number of tutorials cover the controls 
 well. There are a lot of controls to remember in this game and referral back to the tutorials is 
 often a good idea. The manual doesnt even bother explaining all that much as it often refers to 
 the tutorials in the game instead.
  
  The single player campaign breaks you into controlling and commanding your units gently, starting 
 you off in a PT (torpedo) boat, then up to destroyers, cruisers, aircraft carriers, submarines 
 and eventually entire fleets. You also get to fly virtually every plane in the Pacific theatre 
 as you engage in dogfights plus dive bomb and torpedo enemy ships.
  
  As well as the main campaign, there are challenges based around the various unit types. These are 
 standalone missions and pretty tricky. They are very useful, though, in preparing you for multiplayer.
 
  Battlestations Midway is played over Xbox Live with up to eight players taking control of either 
 the US or Japanese forces and attempting to complete certain objectives. This is good fun but naturally, 
 as with so many online games, playing with dedicated people or friends makes it more enjoyable.
 
  
  Graphically the game is mostly very good. As there is often an awful lot going on, some simple 
 textures and effects are required to keep the framerate up. But that isnt to say its ugly  ships 
 lean as they turn, roll on the waves, water splashes on the camera, men move around on deck. 
 Planes glint in the sun and water kicks up with explosions and sinking vessels. It often looks 
 absolutely great with the odd rough edge. Sound is good, lots of authentic bangs and good radio 
 chatter keeping you up to date on how soon your ship is going to sink if you dont get some repairs 
 on the go very soon.
  
  The campaign is pretty short, but has secondary and hidden objectives and multiple skill levels 
 to reward replaying, plus the usual achievements. Online play extends the game by quite a bit and 
 overall makes Battlestations Midway a good purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibson-les-rick
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  So when i first bought this game i was like yeah it looks great i can't wait to play it.... WRONG! this 
 game is awful in every way it has awful dull and boring graphics, repetive gameplay and to top 
 it all off a very short campaign that if you really tried you could beat it in 2 hours, you play 
 some puff who has to take revenge because of the attack on pearl harbour so you start off controling 
 a P. T boat in which you blow down Japenese planes this can be done in ten minutes after you fich 
 you realise hey what the hell only 9 missions left? I just paid top price for 10 missions?! completely 
 not worth it avoid this game at all costs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_saint
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  Now this techniqually is the first attempt at WW2 naval combat. And they have done this in such 
 an amazing way!
  
  Im a big fan of WW2 games, and even i was getting tired of the same old aerial, and ground combat 
 games like, Call of Duty, and Blazing Angels, so the smart men of Eidos thought, well lets take 
 this to the pacific ocean!
  
  At the height of the war in the pacific where the great nation of America fights the Japanese imperial 
 armies, now i remember theres not even many ground combat games for the war in the pacific, the 
 only one i really remember is MOH Rising Sun, and that in some cases was unsuccessful. Naval Warfare 
 on the other hand can be, if you know what's going on, now the japanese navy wasn't amazing, but 
 it was formidable, so that gives some insight into the pacific theatre of war.
  
  Ok then, enough history, now for the fun, the ships are BEAUTIFUL! i love them to bits, from the 
 little torpedo boats, to the aircraft carriers of the amercian navy, re-live the battles you had 
 only seen in Nval warfare films, and footage. Carriers- Without them, USA wouldn't have done so 
 well, though proving extremly easy targets, they have formidable flak coverage. And Also has the 
 capacity of Fighters, Fighter Bombers, and Dive Bombers!
  You send these planes out in three squadrons, of 3, which are unique in there own way!
  
  Battleships-Destroyers- 
 The brunt of the Navy, the Battleship!, powerful guns, and the speed of a turtle, these titans 
 are amazingly powerful in the right tactical way! Remember, these also prove Large targets, but 
 have again a powerful Flak coverage.
  
  The work hourse of the Navy, and my personal fav, the Destroyer, nimble, and powerful, this ship 
 provides accurate, shorter ranged fire, but if stcuj in a difficult postion has the speed, and 
 just about enough fire to get you the hell out!
  
  Submarine- Sneaky, and very powerful, set the sub to a depth and chose your victim, launch upto 
 4 torpedoe's a time, but remember, theres and oxygen count, and you will surface, making you very 
 vulnerable.
  
  The planes, useful for attacking airfields, and Naval facilities, Fighters intercept other fighters, 
 or dive bombers, and fighter bombers. The dive bomber, launches a torpedo in the hull of a ship, 
 and remember there's a squad of three planes with you and they will fire along with you. You can 
 track the torpedo into the hull of the ship. But to do this you must reduce speed, and get to an 
 angle which would hit the ship, making you a sitting duck!
  And to finish off, the Fighter Bomber, useful for taking out Aifields and Nval shipyards, like 
 the name you go into a steep dive, and at the right moment release your bomb onto the target, and 
 yes you follow the bomb, and your other teammates will release on time with yours!
  
  Multiplayer!
  
  With great Power comes a great mulitplayer capability, and this is shown on 
 Midway, everyone takes a position on board, like for example, one player, would take one naval 
 shipyard on the amercian team, and another player would take the naval shipyard on next to the 
 first, sending a total of 4 ships out a time! (The same goes for the other side!)
  
  When it all hits off your thinking of what to do, and its hard, no one is following a tactial route, 
 so you must use your units, and find a way to out think, and out match your ememy, this may not 
 always be the case though, overall the multiplayer is fantastic, with an array of vehicles at your 
 disposal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerbert23
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Endormant, les graphiques sont peu inspirant..... les bruit faient de conserves.... et souvent repetee..! 
 dsl Gamespot! ton 7.8 est loin d'etre vraie! j'ai deja vu de meilleur jeux d'avion au xbox... a 
 comparer avec ce jeux.. ca ne vaut pas la chadelle.... c'est qu'un location.... a ne pas acheter! 
 le multiplayer est tellement ennuyant, l'article ecrit ne vos pas la peine d'etre ecrit...... pour 
 un tel jeux d'une faible valeur... ce n'est pas interessant il aurait fallu en multiplayer avoir 
 la chance de jouer plus que 8 individus pour plus de challenging......! j'ai deja vu des jeux de 
 Nintendo plus interessant que ce jeux! Battlestations: midway est un jeux pour tout ceux qui aime 
 joeur rapidement...... et qui veux surtout apres l'avoir acheter , s'en debarasser rapidement! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPiccoli
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  As a WWII enthusiast and simulation fan, it's always hard to strike a middle ground between Realistic 
 &amp; Fun . I played WWII Online which took realistic to the extreme, including lot's of waiting 
 or traveling for action, sometimes an hour or more. Then I played BF1942, which just chucked you 
 into the action and most of the time I was just a moving target for enemy team.
  
  That being said, I found Battlestations Midway to strike a very happy medium between the two. Here's 
 some comments on the different aspects.
  
  - Planes - Not realistic what-so-ever, but fun. I enjoyed the aspect of being able to switch between 
 squadrons so I could lead each bombing run personally. After the payload was dumped, I could switch 
 to another squad or fleet. Who enjoys the long boring flight to and from the target anyway? Situational 
 awareness during dogfights was very tough. To look around, you have to click the right joystick, 
 so you're stuck on your current path. Plus it's tough to circle the view.
  
  - Ship Artilliary - Turning your battleship broadside and unleasing the big guns is ton's of fun... 
 There's a bit of strategy involved to minimize exposure to enemy fleets, while maximizing firepower.
 
  
  - Submarines - Personally, I could never get the hang of the torpedo aiming. Maybe I wasn't doing 
 the spreads right, but I always seems WAY behind the targets. There needed to be more training 
 involved how to calculate proper lead aiming based on target speed, bearing and distance. Instead 
 of the guessing game. Beyond these issues, the submarines were fun and involved the most strategy 
 of all the equipment classes.
  
  Final Thoughts - The campaign was enjoyable, but WAAAYYY too short. Instead of a campaign that 
 touches a little bit on each class, it would have been fun to command a war simulation that involved 
 moving ships around a map and planning assaults, defenses, etc... The game just seemed to give 
 a taste of possibilties.
  
  Scerpi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendiumx
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Battlestations Midway is a solid single player experience, but it REALLY shines on Xbox Live.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is pretty amazing. You can pilot planes, ships and subs and 
 use them all quite effectively without really needing to learn too many controls. The resulting 
 effect is the ability to quickly switch between units in the midst of a large battle and not really 
 have to think about what it is you're controlling this time.
  
  Graphics: This game was originally made for the OXB and they decided to port it to the 360. Honestly, 
 the graphics are decent, but they are really not what they should be on the 360.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is at some times AMAZING and other times its somewhat weak. Some 
 of the big guns on the ships sound more like high powered slingshots than guns, but while you're 
 flying above an enemy ship/island and you're being pelted with Flak and AA fire the sound is incredible 
 and adds a lot of intensity to the game
  
  Value: As much as i hate to say it, if you dont have Xbox live, you should probably wait for this 
 to be in the bargain bin. I enjoyed the campaign a lot but i wouldnt have been too happy if i couldnt 
 then take the experience online.
  
  My tilt: I love WW2... and ever since i was able to swoop down on an enemy carrier with a torpedo 
 bomber in the demo, i have been hooked. This game isnt for everyone, but it sure is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eweinkam
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of naval combat sims, I usually find myself disappointed in games like this. They 
 typically turn out to be too much like shoot-'em-up arcade games, and don't involve enough strategy.
 
  
  This game, however, includes enough strategy and tactics to satisfy by inner Admiral, while at 
 the same time balancing it against fun gameplay.
  
  The gameplay, especially in mulit-player is a blast.. You can drive around in everything including 
 subs, PT boats, destroyers, cruisers, battleships, carriers, fighters, dive bombers, torpedo bombers, 
 and heavy bombers. On the ship units you can work the engine and rudder as wel as take control 
 of one of several weapons systems, and direct your crew to damage control. As a flight sim, its 
 very simplified, but good. The flight model is in 3D so you can fly in the vertical as well as 
 the horizontal planes, and there is a big thrill to diving down onto a weaving enemy carrier, or 
 droping a torpedo and then pulling up just in time to clear the deck.
  
  Since you often have command of many ships and planes of different types, strategy comes into play 
 which takes you to the map view. It gives you a good picture of what is going on, and becomes a 
 great tool for jumping into units that need your personal attention. You can group your ships into 
 formations, and try to maintain a position that gives you an advantage against your enemy. For 
 example, it takes weapon masking into account, so that if you want to shoot at a ship that is directly 
 in front of you, only your forward guns can engage, so you want to try to keep your ships sideways 
 to your enemy so that all guns can shoot (which, in turn, makes you an easier target for torpedos) .
 
  
  The graphics are also excellent. The ships are modeled very well, and each of the ships weapon 
 systems move and fire independently. As ships take damage, they catch fire, have their superstructure 
 blown to pieces, and they even sit down in the water and/or list to one side. This makes it a lot 
 of fun to have two battleships get side by side and blast the tar out of each other. Explosions 
 are nice also, there is a very gratifying feeling when your battleship's big guns score a direct 
 hit on a pesky destroyer and blow it to pieces.
  
  The sound is nice. The big guns provide a nice tump when they fire, but the best sound is when 
 a B-17 lays a string of 450lb bombs down the length of a ship. Nice dramatic score, sound like 
 it came from Victory in the Pacific .
  
  If you are just going to do the single player campaign, the value is a little low, as its pretty 
 short. It is also lacking a scenario editor, which would be nice. I expect that there will be some 
 downloadable content to help with this. However, if you play multiplayer, the value is high. There 
 are only about six maps for multiplayer, but they play differently every time due to the different 
 strategieis that your opponents might take.
  
  Overall, just an outstanding, and well done game. I just wish there was more of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Ok so Midway rocks, you can do anything you like revolving around WWII Naval warfare. Its a smart 
 and clever game that in unique to its own genre. I love the ships, submarine, and planes. I do 
 have one problem. I want to fire my guns when I want to fire them! Dont make me wait till they 
 are in my range to start firing. I may want to lob shells well beyond my visible range, and fire 
 when I feel I can hit them. I dont want them to be on top of me before I can fire. Especially 
 when the ships of the era could fire for several miles. I want to compensate for distance, fire 
 away and let them have it. I do wish the aiming was better however I would say that for the most 
 part the game is fantastic. The subs can be a lot of fun if you can play them well, however if 
 you cant play with them well dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_flog
Rating: 7
Date: May 9, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Battlestations: Midway is an exciting World War 2 pacific ocean campaign game. The best thing about 
 Battlestations: Midway is that it combines the tactics of a real time strategy game with the chaos 
 and adrenaline rush of an action game.. As you start the game you run into your first problem. 
 The game takes a while to learn and get good at and the tutorials feel like they are designed to 
 bore you to death. In the campaign you play as Henry Walker a navy major who, as you follow the 
 story, ends up as capitan of the USS Yorktown aircraft carrier. The campaign is fun and immersive, 
 at points you will forget that you are sitting on your couch. But, there is a catch, the campaign 
 is really short taking only six hours to complete. Even though some missions can take well over 
 an hour once you are done you are left wanting more. There are challenge missions but although 
 fun they are short. Overall Battlestations: Midway will be very appealing to some but I suggest 
 renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golfer13last
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I noticed i beat the single player in this game way too fast. But the multiplyer if great and really 
 gives you alot time to fool around with diferent types of Planes, ships, and subs.
  Only get this game if you have and long subscription of xboxlive though otherwise its not worth 
 it i'd probably have to say i'd pay 50 bucks for this game but not 60. I have spent alot of time 
 on the multiplayer though, gald to say.
  You'll find its not fun at all too loose at this game too much. So for all those military fans out 
 their, ooooo rah!! giddy up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asterothe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Amazing game, a hidden gem. If you invest time and learn everything it pays off. Perfect balance 
 of strategy and action. Online possibilities are endless. The single player is short but with leaderboards 
 and online score keeping you come back and play again and again. The battles going on are huge. 
 It sparked a new genre, think RTS games with units that you can get in and fight. It will be understood 
 better with time and in the future we will see many games like this. With a good online group the 
 exprience is priceless. Highly recommended for thinking people. Give it some time and you will 
 be addicted if you like strategy or action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  -Game is WAY to short
  -Graphics are not next gen, and I would expect more on the 360
  -I never felt like I was micro-managing, which was great. If I'm going to crash into the ground, 
 I want to have the feeling of trees flying by me, and not just some flat green pixels.
  -The music is amazing.
  -No Japanese Campaign, and I would of liked to experience the game from 
 the enemies side
  -Voice acting could be improved. The hero looked like he was in his 50's, but sounded like he was 
 12.
  -The game is fun, and exciting. Once you get the hang of the controls, it's very exciting.
  
 
  Don't buy this game, rent it. You will have fun playing it.... briefly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. The controls in this game are just so stupid it makes me want to break my 
 controller they are just that bad. The graphics are decent but could be better in the short clips 
 wich arent that good. The commentary that you hear in the background which is stupid. The gameplay 
 isnt that fun it gets boring after a while. The sound is pretty good actully when bullets hit the 
 water it sounds awsome. But that is the only good thing about this game. I dont think you should 
 buy this game if your looking or a good WW2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it would be good, but I thought wrong. It turned out to be a pile of crap. 
 I liked the ships and planes and all, but every second i turned my head one of my ships would be 
 missing and they would be getting pwned by one of the enemy ships. I gave them orders just to hold 
 position. Obviously they can't aim either. I can shoot ten times better than the CPU ship. The 
 enemies suck and don't fight very good and the people online are a bunch of terds that think they 
 are so gangster. I guess this isn't my type of game 5/10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AARONRULZ1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This game would be MUCH better if the campaign was longer and there was a offline skirmish mode, but 
 overall its a must buy for people who love war games.
  
  Pros: Decent graphics, awesome gameplay, lots of units, lots of depth, i'll love this game even more 
 if i get xbox live.
  
  Cons: Veteran Difficulty is almost impossible, short campaign and the biggest con of them all, the 
 lack of a offline skirmish mode (since i don't have xbox live and i don't think my ISP supports 
 it either)
  
  Overall it has some considerable cons, but this IS a must buy for people who love Strategy-action 
 hybrid games and if you love war games, this game is for you :wink: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkenMonkey8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlestations: Midway is a very solid all around game. The gameplay is highly addictive and it 
 has good graphics and very life like. Battlestations: Midway allows you to control either ships, 
 submarines, or planes. The campaign is too short and the Academy.... ZZZ. If your looking for a 
 game with all the features online, you found the game. You can play with 7 other people and control 
 every aspect of each battle. You can play every battle different and come up with new results everytime. 
 You will not regret buying this game. This game has a by-far better feeling that Over-G and Blazing 
 Angels when you control the planes.
  
  The game takes awhile to get use to so don't give up on it. This game is an instant classic which 
 I will be playing until it brakes.... or BIA or MOH: A come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameglino
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  You can always expect the maker of Edios to make their games as real as they can be. And I belive 
 Battlestations: Midway Is their best example yet. From the reflextion of the wavy ocean to the 
 islands. They did a wonderful job to make you feel like salior.
  
  Even the perspective of sizes to the ships and the plans were very accurate. I've always been picky 
 about comparing sizes even since the N64 game of Rouge Squandren from Lucas Art. And still I believe 
 they haven't fix that problem. But I'm happy to see the people in Battlestation to be at their 
 right size.
  
  The gameplay are often tough even at median level setting when you get nailed alot and often get 
 sunked. But that's where strategies comes into play which will give you the sweet satisfaction 
 of victory when a plan goes perfect.
  
  On the down side where the game is really short. Sure you can set them on a harder level. But There 
 is not much of a replay value in this game. But that is were the Xbox live comes in handy as you 
 can play for good hours with other players.
  
  To sum it up Battlestation: Midway is a enjoyable game that you can either rent or buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most infuriating game to play. God hope you can get the goals accomplished and 
 not die. There are no save points, anywhere, ever. Say at the end you need to sink a battleship. 
 Well, if you had to sink the entire defending force, you need to do that first, then sink the battleship. 
 If you die at the end fighting the battleship, start ALL over. That is the only reason I dislike 
 this game. Everything else is fine, although many areas could use tweaking, it is not a bad game 
 to play or anything, just make sure you can stand to get extremely annoyed by restarting the entire 
 level over when you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xsouljah_89
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game I can honestly say I love the naval warfare. It's a relatively untouched 
 field in RTS's for me, so naturally that bit was fun. The aerial battles though... eugh... The 
 air combat in this game reminded me of playing any of the Pacific Theatre maps on Battlefield 1942 
 on an exceptionally laggy server with a keyboard that had keys jammed with those Nerd candy things. 
 Not fun, and controls as hard as hell.
  
  The air combat is the bit that killed the game for me. On the note of controls, you will have to 
 take a while to get used to it. After playing strategy games on the PC for so long its a bit of 
 a jump to this. The controls aren't necessarily hard, but they dont seem all that functional to 
 me.
  
  Personally I wouldn't buy it. While the game is good fun on some levels, there are other dissapointing 
 factors that will drive the rating down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olazo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Well, I was expecting more, but it's not disappointing as well. Could have added more missions, 
 I haven't tried playing it on line but I would rather spend my time playing PFS on line than this 
 one. Should have given the IJN a story line as well even though they lost in history at least we 
 could have played it and let history happen our way as that is the purpose of this game. Quite 
 challenging though, I hope they come up with something the same like Naval OPS, where we can design 
 and build our own battle ships and subs!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercedes_5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  This game gives an amazing experience of the war in the pacific from both side's perspectives. 
 The graphics are good but do have the odd game freezing 'reset the 360' glitches especialy in a 
 mission that has dragged on past 45 minutes.
  It gives a variation of missions, but is a fairly short game. The naval accademy is hilarious! 
 For the actual ingame vehicles, submarines are the only real problem, messy water effects almost 
 ruin that game aspect.
  The best aspect of the game however is probably the flying or the aircraft carrier missions, they 
 are imersive ad you need to keep yuor wits about you, due to a sometimes suprisingly clever AI.
 
  Overall though a great game only just falling short of a '9 rated review'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danpc
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  so what do i think of the game (based on what ive experianced) , basically its poor...
  
  great ideas, but badly implemented; sluggish gameplay, awful graphics, annoying AI. although on 
 the other hand it doesnt take very long to get the hang of and learn the basics...
  
  you must however keep in mind that this review is purely based on the available demo and not on 
 the full game, with several games coming out for the 360 with toned down MP versions of the SP 
 game, it would be fair to say the SP mode may be alot better, but i cant imagine it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondragon55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  That's not to say it's a bad game, because it was fun while it last. You have a few (and I mean 
 like 10) single player missions as well as some challenges. While all being fun, you never really 
 want to re-play through the mission again.
  
  Game Play: 9/10
  I've have to say, it rocked. It's an RTS and an Action game rolled into one and it works with only 
 a few flews. Long training missions, and a lack of single player missions (a skirmish mode would 
 have worked wonders.) and that's all you really can fault it for. As far as single player goes.
 
  
  Multi player you can find yourself play over and over again or not at all. I don't, personally, 
 like the online part simply because I rarely can find 30-45 minutes to sit down uninterrupted. 
 In multi player, you choose from one of 8 slots (four for US and four for Japan) and duke it out 
 on the maps from the single player games, which works, but some other maps and the ability to have 
 more choice other then the defaults for the maps would have put it over the top.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Very nice clouds.... I haven't seem better. The rest of the game is fairly well 
 down, once you considering the size of the maps. You wont be disapointed here.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Typical stuff, some nice music some time to time. The voice overs do get repetitive. 
 But, over all, it works.
  
  Value: 5-8/10
  For me, I'd give it a 5, but for people that can sit down and play for 45 mintues with the controller 
 without having someone interupt you, I'd say an 8. The single player is way short and there's not 
 much point in playing the challenges more then once after you beat them. Not worth the $60, so 
 I'd wait until it dropped to about 30 or less. But it WAS a good game while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairyassapeman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great graphics on HD TV or monitor. Lots of real-life units to control and command. Submarines. 
 Good historical accuracy for a video game. Easy to control, challenging to master.
  
  Bad: Short single player campaign. No Japanese campaign. No mission editor to setup your own battles. 
 Voice acting can be a bit hokey and stereotyped. Later challenges can be downright frustrating. 
 Single player campaign doesn't allow you to use specific unit types as much as you might want to. 
 Upcoming downloadable content is over-priced for what you'll get.
  
  I don't have Xbox Live Gold so I haven't tried the multiplayer. Without the multiplayer it feels 
 like you're missing out on the biggest portion of the game. Overall it's a good, fun game, but 
 it's lacking in content. It needed a Japanese campaign or at least a mission builder. The early 
 challenges can be pretty hard, but not hard enough to frustrate you into stopping play. Later challenges 
 can feel practically impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNIPER-CAZ
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply one of my favorit's at this time. It has a great sence of strategy put into 
 it with a great twist of action. The single player missions are not quite up to par but the online 
 version is propably some of the more difuclt yet fun games to play. Battle stations involve many 
 submarines, planes and ships that are authentic and look great. The mix between different ships 
 and planes add a mixture a difficullty and fun out into a sweet and dynamic warfar game. if not 
 thee best game right now it might be a great classic that ill be keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has been and will be rolling out hits throughout 2007. This is great for all of us 
 gamers, but for developers, this is more of a nightmare. The problem is the fact that with all 
 of this selection, many great games will be overlooked and potentially missed altogether. This 
 is what I am afraid might happen to Battlestations: Midway
  
  In Battlestations you are a commander leading your men in battles that took place directly after 
 Pearl Harbour. The idea is that you use a map screen to direct your various platoons to do the 
 jobs that you see fit. You will be controlling fighter planes, dive bombers, submarine, aircraft 
 carriers and a ton of other vehicles. At any time during the game, you can switch between commanding 
 and actually flying, steering, shooting or bombing in one of your many vehicles. When I first purchased 
 the game, I instantly put myself through the painful, yet very useful, tutorial. It brings you 
 through every aspect of controlling and really does a great job of assisting you through the extremely 
 complicated process of learning how to play this game.
  
  The controls in the game I found to be very intuitive. Controlling all of your different units 
 at once isn't too overwhelming and I find it very exciting trying to keep up with the constant 
 chaos of the game. If you at anytime are sick of the constant strategy of the game, you can take 
 control of one of your air or sea units with the press of a button. It's a good amount of control 
 and you really feel as if you are getting things done.
  
  Once I was finished, I jumped into single player with both feet and decided to really give it a 
 go. First off, the cutscenes look absolutely amazing. I thought Call of Duty 3 had some of the 
 best looking cutscenes ever until my eyes laid feast upon this beautiful work of art. Everything 
 looks completely realistic and is really quite a pleasure to look at. Once I actually got into 
 the game, it was spectacular. You start out nice and easy and slowly grow into more and more exciting 
 battles. I'm almost done the campaign and I find it very exciting.
  
  But all of this is nothing until you take in on Live. This is really where the game shines through. 
 There are 9 available maps yet only 1 game mode. At first that sounded disappointing, but I compare 
 the game mode to War in Call of Duty 3; there's no other reason to play anything else. You can 
 play with up to 7 other people in an objective based game where you can choose between 4 different 
 roles in both the Japanese and American side. It's great to be playing with a bunch of people while 
 communicating. I've find the people that are playing online to be quite competent, which helps 
 when you're in the middle of a huge war. It's very exciting.
  
  The audio-visual presentation is quite impressive overall. As I mentioned, the cutscenes are some 
 of the best of ever scene, though the game doesn't quite live up to that. There are many inconsistencies. 
 The sky is amazing, yet the water is merely average. The planes and ships look great, but the land 
 textures are sub-par up close. It's about 80% good and 20% disappointing.
  
  In the audio front, it all sounds quite nice. The score is great and so are the sound effects. 
 In the middle of a battle, it's good to hear some realistic explosions and some of your men yelling 
 at you over the radio. In single player, the voice acting is also quite decent.
  
  Although you may not be able to tell this from the tone of this review, I find this game to be 
 one of the most exciting that is currently out on the Xbox 360. It has deep strategy, strong action 
 and a lot of things accompanying it to make it a well rounded package. This is really a must have 
 for all fans of Blazing Angels, Age of Empires or anything good. I really have to say this is an 
 underrated must own.
  
  Positives:
  + Great looking cutscenes and clouds
  + Good audio presentation
  + Extremely deep strategy
  + Exciting Battles
  + One of the best 
 experiences on Live
  
  Negatives:
  - 6-7 hour single player campaign
  - Steep learning curve
  - Inconsistencies in graphical presentation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo verison of this game and was totally surprised. The controlling of units is really 
 good. The controlling of aircraft and vessels take some time but once mastered, the game becomes 
 very interesting. I love duking it out with ship to ship battles. I love the dogfights and the 
 bombing run at wich you can control at any point in the game. You can switch between the user and 
 computer at any time. This was a thought out and very well plannned game. Good job eidos of Hungary 
 . I was shocked that people in eastern europe could produce such a good title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this one for a while, its whole concept sounded great to me. Its a strategy 
 game with a twist, its like a hybrid between a strategy, a combat sim and battleships, and the 
 Hybrid works. The core gameplay here is not simple but it is not too complex either, you do need 
 strategy to decide what units to put where but you can go hands on, straight into the action if 
 you choose. The US Campaign itself is actually rather short, however there are various challenges 
 to take part in, but they are not as good as the campaign. It actually got a plot, its quite funny 
 actually, the guy gets a promotion after every mission :) . Anyway, the graphics are not.... great 
 and could have been improved a bit considering it is next gen, but they suffice, and the land and 
 sky graphics are quite impressive, as is the water. There is a wide variety of planes and weapons 
 and some good sound effects as well as a great engaging multiplayer (games can take over an hour 
 with good players) , so this is a great addition the the 360s wide collection.
  I like: The Wide Variety of objectives and vehicles, the story, the online
  I Hate: The Campaign 
 is a bit short, graphics could be upped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildhobo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game was fun from the start. I downloaded the demo and had been playing that waiting for the 
 game to come out. It's a great game to play. Great for all ages. Thinking of new strategies every 
 game you play makes it all the better. The leader boards for xbox live is great. The ribbons you 
 can receive makes the game that much better as you try to get them. Spend hours on end sinking 
 ships and or shooting down planes. All in all, Great game. Ide recommend it to anyone. Older players 
 and even younger ones. Let grandpa watch you play. Let your kids watch you play it. it's an all 
 around clean game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  You want strategy, you want control, you want to blow **** up! Well, Battlestations: Midway gives 
 it to ya in one giant package. Granted that giant package can be a little... ok really daunting 
 at first but give it some time, learn the ropes soon you'll be an ace, or an admiral whichever 
 you prefer. Battlestations: Midway is one of the best strategy games that doesn't use a whole lot 
 of controls.
  First lets talk about the gameplay of Midway. The controls are quiet simple as long as you know 
 what they are and know what they do you'll be fine, though i must admit i was taught how to play 
 this game after someone else figured it out. So, i can sympathize with anyone who says that this 
 game is complicated. It'll take you the better half of 1 hour to know what buttons do what, and 
 another hour to realize how to use all the buttons and yet another hour to be good enough to play 
 online without losing too bad. All in all once you get the knowledge of how to control your pieces 
 (shipyards, airfields, carriers, destroyers, battleships etc.) this game is extremely enjoyable. 
 Now to move onto graphics... well thats enough of graphics wouldn't you say. No, really though the 
 graphics are not that impressive, though on the other hand they really don't need to be. What this 
 game lacks in graphical firepower it more then makes up for is sheer entertainment. The pieces 
 of midway (ships, planes etc.) look just fine, they're certainly not horrible to look at but won't 
 blow you away either they are quiet simply alright.
  Now the sound in Midway is actually quiet well done, even though you have the occasional voices 
 that don't help the game much you do have the option of turning off ONLY the voices, which is nice. 
 The planes, ships firing there massive guns, submarines shooting torpedos. All of the audio for 
 midway is very well done and doesn't sound like it was made in some sound station to mimic these 
 events. Now more about the game itself, as i stated previously the controls are rather hard to 
 pick up off the bat. So if i were you i would see if someone could teach you the ropes rather then 
 trying to figure it out for yourself. At first there's a lot on your plate (controlling your ships, 
 making planes, ships, making certain ships/planes attack etc.) so be prepared. Though once you 
 get the hang of everything you need to do and how to do them the game is actually a whole lot of 
 fun. Now gamespot's review is true to word, the campaign really isn't too exciting so if you play 
 it, use it as training for online, because that's where the fun is. Midway was built for online 
 playability not single player. The amount of fun this game can be with a group of friends is tremendous. 
 Midway is one of the rare breeds that can appetize any hunger, if you like strategy its got plenty, 
 if you just like controlling ships/planes and nothing else you can do that if you like to be the 
 admiral and just tell things where to go you can do that. There are so many ways to play this game 
 and so many pieces you can control that it just makes the value of this game skyrocket. So whatever 
 you do don't take the gamespot score too critical because if you look at the value they gave this 
 game a 9/10, so right there they are trying to tell you that besides the categories this game is 
 actually really good.
  So go out there and get this game and get your friends to come along because i'm sure that no matter 
 what you like doing you WILL have fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lambalot
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  I first played this on the Demo that was released, i played that for hours even though it was pretty 
 limited but i just couldnt get enough. The graphics are very good, not perfect like some other 
 Next Gen games but that doesnt really other me.
  I agree that the Single Player isnt very long but i think this game is all about the Multiplayer.
 
  i also like the fact that you dont just click your units and give them orders and watch them do 
 whatever, if you feel like jumping straight into the action and controlling the units then you 
 can, if you master the different kind of units you can survive longer than if left the computer 
 to do the things for you.
  
  If the Game was going into a series then i would like to see Ground Battles although i dont know 
 how that would work but would be nice to see.
  
  Very Good Game i would suggest people buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dano10477
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  About two months ago I seen/heard about Battlestations, so I log on and download a couple of Game-play 
 videos. I was very impressed by what I saw. This game looked like it would renew its genre. So 
 I patiently waited, and finally the multi-player demo was released. Needless to say the download 
 of the demo was something that I was excited to see. After download was completed I logged on to 
 see what this game was about. I was very disapointed by my lack of knowledge on how to control 
 my units, however I knew it was a demo and that they can only fit so much on one.
  
  So I was doomed to continue and wait, I knew I was going to buy this game as soon as it was released 
 (with prior approval of my wife that is :) ) . Well not to change the subject but my local Wal-Mart 
 hasn't even received their shipments of Battlestations yet (10 days post release) , so I ordered 
 one from Ebay. I have been playing the game for around 4 days now, having completed the single 
 player campaign I've been getting some experience in the Ranked Matches. I can tell you this, this 
 game is very historically accurate, very addicting, and most of all very fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshot19
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  the game itslef i pretty entertaining with vivid graphics exspecially the water. for being one 
 of the few RTS games for the 360 it did a really good job. however ui find the weapons ratio for 
 the americans and japanese is quite unbalanced because i could shoot a japanese battle ship quite 
 a bit with my american one and the japenese one wil always kick my ass because the japs ships have 
 a crap load of artillery guns so they pretty much slaughter.
  
  on a music standpoint the music is well written and sounded exceptional but the fact that online 
 games don't have any sound besides gunfire, ship movement and th occasional all hands abbandon 
 ship is really annoying.
  
  The campaing has an intersting story line but it is short and has an awful ending but the gameplay 
 fits with the story but there is only one mission when you get the submarine which was really dissapointing. 
 Overall though i wouldn't recommened buying it if you have a thing for storylines but other than 
 that i would say to rent first then buy it if you like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashCharge
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Battlestations Midway is just plain fun and a joy to play. The graphics may not be next generation 
 but they are still very life like. The tutorial is the key and plays an important part in teaching 
 and performing the basics. There is a story which adds to the game play and feeling for the game. 
 The controls are very good once you have master them. Flight is smooth and easy to control. It 
 is a game that is hard to put down. The missions are short but its the shortness that keeps you 
 motivated to go on. It is a game thats a must to have in any collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirvana918
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  I'm usually not into the whole RTS scene, i dunno, something about not actually being able to pull 
 that trigger each and every time just doesn't sit well with me, but i was really excited for this 
 game. Being billed as RTS meets Arcade sounded good, and it is. The graphics in this game are pretty 
 well done. Scenary and water graphics look extremely good, while the ships, subs, and plains look 
 good also, they leave something to be desired. The game itself is pretty tight, the campaign is 
 a little short, but gruelling battles will make it feel a lot longer than it really is, and if 
 it's still too short, the hour long training and ship, plane, and submarine challenges should tide 
 you over. The only draw back to this game in my mind is that you may spend more time looking at 
 your tactial map, and enjoying the RTS side of the game that the graphics and gameplay may go by 
 the wayside. All in all, if you positive you want this game, then buy it, you shouldn't be disappointed, 
 but if your just not sure, i would definitely rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcmwbjs91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  If you love the PACIFIC THEATRE this is the game for you, this isnt running aroung some stupid 
 map getting shot and respawning, STRAGEDY, you want to survive you have to be very good, whether 
 its the flight ops off a carrier, the torpedo's from your destroyer, PT Boat or sub, this same 
 is for the planes, wether its a dive bomber, torpedo bomber or a fighter. Lots of fun, weak player 
 wont last long they just quit, so the game is left for the real fans. If you love the PACIFIC THEATRE 
 this is the game for you, this isnt running aroung some stupid map getting shot and respawning, 
 STRAGEDY, you want to survive you have to be very good, whether its the flight ops off a carrier, 
 the torpedo's from your destroyer, PT Boat or sub, this same is for the planes, wether its a dive 
 bomber, torpedo bomber or a fighter. Lots of fun, weak player wont last long they just quit, so 
 the game is left for the real fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Battlestations: Midway
  
  Game play: The game play is fairly simple; the controls of the vehicles have been greatly simplified 
 to make the game approachable by casual gamers. However some aspects of the game seem to have been 
 over simplified, my main disappointment with Midway, is the Submarine Warfare. The whole aspect 
 of sub warfare is dumbed down to the point of 4 depth levels, Destroyers simply detect subs that 
 are in Depth levels 1-3 (1= surface level 4= crush depth) there is no need to gestimate where a 
 Sub is at, or to set a depth for your depth charges, as depth charges auto impact a sub, or detonate 
 in the depth level 3.
  
  Aside from the drastically over simplified Sub / anti submarine warfare the rest of the game is 
 simplified, but not to the point of completely ruining the experience for naval aficionados.
  
  Graphics: Midway has nice graphics, but the water effects looks somewhat dated when compared 
 to the effects in naval games like Silent Hunter 3 &amp; 4.
  
  Sound FX: The games cut scenes have bad voice acting, unenthusiastic almost Mono tone is the voice 
 acting in many of the cut scenes, the in game sound effects are great though, and capture the chaos 
 of naval battles in the pacific.
  
  Replay Value: The game has a moderate replay value; however there is no connection indication in 
 the lobby when selecting a multiplayer game, so its hit or miss on finding a Lag free game.
  
  Final thoughts: I was personally some what disappointed with the game, once the single-player 
 story begins to pick up, the game is over. I could probably over look the drastic over simplification 
 of the game, but once the game begins to get good, its pretty much over; the campaign is just 
 way too short.
  
  This game should earn between 6.5  7.5 rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hulkamaniac_504
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  would have been better if the campaign was longer, and if there would have been a japanese campaign. 
 It would also me better if there were more planes you could have put in the air at one time in 
 the campaign mode. i played this game and beat the campaign mode in like 5 hours. the challenges 
 are a little bit harder because you only have one unit in some mission. but overall it is worth 
 the money because i am looking forward to hooking up xbox live and playing large multiplayer games. 
 If you are looking for a good plane fighter, submarine sinking, and ship fighting game, then this 
 game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarektaha
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Its a simple action game about war in sea with all types of war ships, submarines and planes of 
 World War 2 mainly in the pacific region.
  
  Well when i say simple i mean the action part of the game where you take control over the ships 
 and start fighting with other ships, planes or destroyers this part of the game is very basic aim 
 and shoot change weapons from AA (Antiaircraft Artillery ) to Terpiods etc. The interesting part 
 of the game is the STRATEGY part of the game where you have:
  1. Maps to view status, plan things, give actions commands
  2. Order Automatic Commands to unit
 
  3. Control Different types of units in the same mission.
  4. Damage Control for hit ships
  
  So is it a STRATEGY game or an ACTION game? its hard to tell some will say it did not do any 
 of thsis as well! so its neither! But expect a more strategy (6/10) then action (4/10) .
  
  The game have room to be much better, Graphics could have been much better, strategy part should 
 be taken to the next level to be a more advanced strategy game or the developers really have to 
 choose where this game will belong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josefkrump
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  the battle of midway . the turning point of the war aginst japan. battle stations midway a game 
 made by eidos. its a great game to spend
  your hard earned cash on . it takes place in ww2 (1941-1942 or 1943) now yes the war ended in 1945 
 i know but the game does stop at the battle of midway so for you that thouth that you would see 
 the flag riseing or you geting to drop the bomb that ended the war you dont . sorry. this is a 
 great game for those who wanted to see what it might be like to command a fleet and shoot down 
 planes or go hunting in a s-boat (sub) or go head on head with the other ships out on the open sea.
 
  the one thing about the game is that its one of those very few that start out in pearl on the 
 7th,1941. one big pointer for the game is its online play just like you were playing in single 
 player and some one take over the japanese and started kicking your azz or maybe you are the japs 
 and you are kicking some butt with a ship. or not its up tp you. Anyway i play this game online 
 and i for one can say i am looking forward to a 2nd battlestations. p. s. its up to you if you want 
 the game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caesar105
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is revolutionary as stated but it is under appreciated when people hear RTS they think 
 oh thats horrible but if they try it they will love it. the game is just right the campaign is awsome 
 but it could've been longer. the repairing your own ship thing is a good deal more realistic although 
 they should've added more ships and planes to have more variety. More flak guns on the smaller ships 
 would make them more able to defend them selves from aeroial attacks instead of getting holes blown 
 into them by torpedo bombers and they should give every ship depth charges to stop subs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelReb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  OVERVIEW
  
  Battlestations Midway gives a RTS fan and even a FSP fan some great gameplay elements, sound, fitting 
 graphics and more important multiplayer is were it is at. Single player aspect of the game is short 
 VERY short you play as an naval capitan that fights his way though the Pacific Theater from the 
 Battle at Coral Sea all the way to Midway herself battles are well done putting you in the drives 
 seat of your own fleet however that isn't to say the single player doesn't need some work besides 
 being very short campaign replay value is also not high in this game are though their are challenges 
 (planes, sudmarine's, ships ranging from easy to crazy hard) if you don't have Xbox Live this maybe 
 a rental for you unless you are a WWII nut. Mulitplayer is excellent in this game with 9 maps many 
 from the campaign each one has its own gameplay and strategy to it one will have you protecting 
 a fleet of US B-17's with wildcats well as for the Japanese your job is to take a squard of Zero 
 fighters to take them down others will have you building submarines and Battleships the list goes 
 on. But the one thing that makes this mulitplayer great is that you will rarely have the same battle 
 twice with new players tiring new ideas this battles could range from 15 mins to 50 mins long prefight.
 
  
  THE GOOD, THE BAD, THE UGLY
  
  The Good
  +Muliplayer is a blast +Units ranging from subs to Battleships, fighters to B-17's the list goes 
 on
  +One of the Best Strategy games out for a console
  +Controls are easy to get use to and sound puts you in the fight like no other
  
  The Bad
 
  -Replay value is in small numbers with this game
  -The slow pacy of this game may turn some players off
  -All though the Mulitplayer maps good 
 we would have liked to have seen more
  -Lag is on or off in alot of the servers
  
  The Ugly
  =Why is it that the Yamato Battleship the biggest and baddest ship rarely used in this 
 game both single and mulitplayer? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madcat26
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  A great game, nothing is better then fighting determined human oponents in an hour long struggle 
 which takes skill and clever battle tactics. Fans of axis and allies even risk will love this game 
 as it can also be played purely from the real time battle screen which displays the entire battlefield 
 - from this screen you can move your naval and air units into position, attack your enemy etc. 
 and when you feel like micromanaging a fight you can jump right in and fly a single fighter plane 
 if you so desire. A great game, nothing is better then fighting determined human oponents in an 
 hour long struggle which takes skill and clever battle tactics. Fans of axis and allies even risk 
 will love this game as it can also be played purely from the real time battle screen which displays 
 the entire battlefield - from this screen you can move your naval and air units into position, 
 attack your enemy etc. and when you feel like micromanaging a fight you can jump right in and fly 
 a single fighter plane if you so des 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stricklandfan22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game gives a variety of different people the enjoyment of taking control of vehicles! You 
 can do so much in this game with the vehicles u feal there is no restrictions! its a great game 
 and is very addicting! This game gives a variety of different people the enjoyment of taking control 
 of vehicles! You can do so much in this game with the vehicles u feal there is no restrictions! 
 its a great game and is very addicting! This game gives a variety of different people the enjoyment 
 of taking control of vehicles! You can do so much in this game with the vehicles u feal there is 
 no restrictions! its a great game and is very addicting! This game gives a variety of different 
 people the enjoyment of taking control of vehicles! You can do so much in this game with the vehicles 
 u feal there is no restrictions! its a great game and is very addicting! This game gives a variety 
 of different people the enjoyment of taking control of vehicles! You can do so much in this game 
 with the vehicles u feal there is no restrictions! its a great game and is very addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrentLives
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best RTS, I've ever played on the 360. Very deep campaign with 11 missions and 
 unlockable 12 other missions. Great online mode. unlockable movies,  
 Academy to get an easier feel on the controls. sub challenge, command destroyers, command a fleet, 
 single campaign mode. This game isn't for everybody the game play is slow in a some modes, so you 
 have to be patient and very skillful of how to destroy the enemy. The action is very realistic. You 
 got to know what you're doing at all times. I would highly recommend for people to buy this game 
 it's way better than over g and blazing angels, you can do so much in this game it's nuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great mix of strategy and action; lots of different ships, planes, and subs to command; 
 intuitive controls make it easy to switch between functions. The Bad: The single-player campaign 
 is too short. QUOTE from offical review of GameSpot.
  
  I agree with everything that was said about this game. So far I have played it for a couple of 
 hours and give the thumbs up for the whole explanation of controls in the start of the game. This 
 game is something you can't jump into and know everything thing right off, but giving time for 
 all explanations this game gets better and better. The price of the game covers all aspects of 
 a game that has good replay value. The multi-player makes the game even more worth while to have 
 fun and stay on it for a hours. If you are into action, stategy and World War 2..... this game will 
 make you feel you get your moneys worth. The visuals, sound and setting are very good... with some 
 slowdown when things are exploding. There are more positives than negatives all the way through 
 on this title. I like I said before the replay value is what keeps this one going on-line. Somethings 
 will agrevate you at the start, but giving this one time.... you will grasp the idea.
  
  I recommend this one if you are willing to give this kind of game a try. It is an excellent choice 
 to rent.... but you have to learn it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty hyped about getting Battlestations MIdway because it's the first real release since 
 Christmas for the XBOX 360. The field had been a bit dry lately so I was waiting for a good game 
 to come out. I must say I am impressed. When looking at the instruction manual and going through 
 the training at the Naval Academy, all of the controls and techniques and information can be a 
 bit overwhelming. There's alot to learn about controlling everything and there's a learning curve 
 to the game which will take most people a little while to get everything down. I still am not real 
 comfortable with all the controls. I've made it through the training and I'm on the third mission 
 I think it is right now. The story line and cinematics are surprisingly good and when compared 
 to Blazing Angels they are superb. (Blazing Angels had some of the worst cinematics with the still-life 
 photography and non-moving cutscenes. That just aggravates me in this day and age) The storyline 
 is good and you get to learn some history as well.
  
  If you like strategy-type games such as Lord of the Rings Battle for MIddle Earth I think you'll 
 really love this game. It's very original. I've never seen anything like it...... I mean you get 
 to control a whole fleet of ships: battleships, cruisers, PT boats, aircraft carriers, etc. Then 
 on the aircraft carrier you can control the whole fleet of planes and even swap to any of the planes 
 and battle from the cockpit. It seems like the options and weapons and gameplay of the aircraft 
 are even better than Blazing Angels. They are definitely very comparable and that says alot when 
 flying and controlling aircraft is only a very small portion of this entire game!!! Oh and I must 
 mention the submarines. This is the first game where I could ever control a submarine. You can 
 lift the parascope out of the water mark your target and fire your torpedos. You can drop to different 
 depths in the water. I can't wait to get more into the game. Ill try and update this review as 
 I go along. In fact I'm going to play now! But so far, so good. I highly recommend this game. I 
 would say it's not for kids too young because it would be too complicated for younger kids. Probably 
 at least thirteen or older. Also, you can play on 3 different levels of difficulty. I'm starting 
 on Rookie.
  
  There's something about warfare out in the middle of an ocean with all that water all around and 
 your manning an anti-aircraft gun and blasting at a Japanese bomber who's coming in at you....... then 
 you blast it into a flying fireball that takes a dive into the water....... that is just so cool 
 to see in Hi-definition action!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enriko
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't the most indepth game out there, but it does give you a very broad scope of things 
 to do. You can fly a variety of planes ranging from different types of dive bombers, torpedo planes, 
 and fighters. You can pilot a variety of ships ranging from battleships, cruisers, destroyers, 
 carriers, PT boats, and more. You can hop in a sub and take pot shots at your enemy while trying 
 to dodge a destroyer's depth charges. You can change what your doing on your ships, from launching 
 planes if your a carrier, operate your AA flak guns, shooting your artillery, drop depth charges, 
 and such. There's many options to use, but not really any of them are indepth. I believe the developers 
 did that on purpose, so you can easily hop from thing to the next without a hassle. I've played 
 the demo and now I have had plenty of time under my belt concerning the released game. There's 
 actually alot of strategy to the game if your group takes the time to do so, which seems to happen 
 the majority of the time I've played. The variety of online game maps is superb, you have many 
 options and objectives depending on the map. In one map you might be trying to take out the enemy's 
 docks, the other map your trying to sink their carriers, another of trying run the blockade, etc. 
 I've read some reviews of people saying that.. It takes too long for my ship to get to it's destination!! 
 .. that's true, but I believe it's supposed to be that way. If you increase the speed of the big 
 hulking ships, such as the Battleship's and Carrier's, well that in my opinion would really change 
 the gameplay for the worse. The reason that the Battleship is slow for example, is because it's 
 a floating juggernaut. It can take a lot of hits from all types of weapons and still be floating 
 along dishing out a TON of damage to enemy ships and land installations. You wouldn't want that 
 thing going faster then it already is. I think people who want something more quick should just 
 pick a different type of ship or pilot a plane for quick action. Also, the people that are saying 
 that it's not a very tactical game.. all I have to say is that it's what you make of it and it's 
 also how you perceive it yourself. In my opinion, it's almost like playing a game of football. 
 Your allies and yourself positioning ships, subs, and planes on the map for the best possible defense 
 and offense. Meanwhile, your opponents are doing the same thing, moving their stuff along in which 
 you must account for. Replay ability is good, it's good enough for a person to come back for more 
 for a lengthy period of time. The battles can go a variety of ways depending on what your group 
 does and what your opponent does which really add's to the game's replayability.
  
  The controls are fine in my book. I've heard of some people grumbling over them while flying planes, 
 but I'm still scratching my head at that one. They are easy to control and seem to me there is 
 nothing wrong with them that I can see. The sound is adequate, it's nothing ground breaking but 
 it does the job well. The graphics are alright, nothing ground breaking either. But I believe they 
 didn't add too much detail since they wanted the capability of having the possibility of a large 
 scale battle happening, which it does in almost every game I've played to date. Planes spinning 
 in a whirlwind above my battleship with streaks of smoke and fire billowing behind them as well 
 as the occasion mid-air explosion happens and the occasion splash off starboard as one dives into 
 the water on fire. Machine gun's and AA going insane from my ship and all the ships around me at 
 the aircraft overhead. My ship's smoking from the burning fire of my hull while I'm also taking 
 on water from a well placed torpedo from the submarine underneath, meanwhile I'm firing over a 
 dozen guns into the side of another ship. I'm quickly assigning damage control, but I fear it's 
 too late for this ship.
  
  Overall I'd give the online aspect a thumbs up . I believe it's a well rounded online experience 
 with plenty of replayability and things to do.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - I believe it does what the developers intended it to do. Largescale warfare, plenty 
 of accessibility without a hassle. A good tactical/action game.
  Graphics 8/10 - The graphics are adequate, not the best but also not bad either.
  Sound - 7/10 
 - The sound isn't anything groundbreaking, but it does the job well.
  Value - 9/10 - I believe that people will have fun with this one. Plenty of action, plenty of tactics, 
 and team cooperation. With those factors it gives it a good replayability factor.
  
  Overall I'd give it an 8.7/10 and a good Thumbs Up on the concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickskate90
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic use of controls to switch between planes and great use of the map to tell your AI where 
 to fly, or toward. Its just a all around great highly addictive game with good multiplayer value. 
 The graphics of the video cutscenes are fantastic and very good looking. Multiplayer is very addictive 
 and communication and stradegy is very important. If you think you can run rught at the enemy you 
 will be destroyed. The boats have awesome weapons. The artillery on the boats is very effective 
 and artillery battles are very very fun. I am surprised that someone finally has made a good WWII 
 sim that is addictive for hours of gaming. You won't want to but the controller down. However the 
 down falls are the plane controlling is very confusing and at times gets very frustrating when 
 you want to make a sharp turn to face the enemy but instead you take a wide turn and get blasted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Most reviews I've read say the tutorial for Battlestations: Midway is excruciating boring. I don't 
 agree. Its pacing is admittedly slow, and it can be annoying to have to wait for on-screen directions 
 to press a certain button before you can actually press it, but unlike many other tutorials this 
 one is very robust. It provides useful information, is clear and easy to understand, it is thorough, 
 and it provides an achievement when you're done with it!
  
  I haven't much time with the game otherwise, but so far I like it. The graphics, as many others 
 have stated, vary from good to just okay. Sound, overall, is well done. Voice overs aren't incredible 
 but they aren't overly annoying, either. The controls and management features are well implemented, 
 and the game play is fun.
  
  But my main concern is that this game succeed, because I would like to see more like it. We had 
 Star Trek Legacy, flawed but fun, and now Battlestations: Midway. I'd love to see a good combat 
 flight, more F-14 Fleet Defender (MIcroprose) than Ace Combat (PS2) , and I'd like to see more simulations, 
 and not only World War II. How about carrier operations during the Vietnam War? Current day? And 
 not more of these completely over simplified flight models and third person perspective viewpoint. 
 If we can simulate car racing can't we do the same with aircraft?
  
  Regardless, Battlestations: Midway is a welcome game in the 360's library, and I hope to see more 
 games like it in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XmythbusterX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game is intriguing to play. With it's indepth tutorial anyone can pick up a control and controls 
 ships, subs, and planes. This game produces some thinking cells in your brain, because for every 
 action you make, you might just get counterattacked. It's a game of dare to discover if you need 
 to make the first move or counter their offense. The only real thing I found wrong with the gameplay 
 consist of the missions/training begin and you can't move your ship with the left stick. If this 
 happens to you just restart the mission, and it will fix the problem. GT is Xtreame Silence
  Happy Hunting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foonugget
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  As an avid 360 player i have to say that this game greatly exited me. Sure i have Fight Night Round 
 3 and sure im going to get Halo 3 but game such as this Battle Sations: Midway, that make the Xbox 
 360 really come into life. With great graphics and wonderful game play microsoft may have finaly 
 found the beauty of the action/strategy game mix. While able to play as many different roles my 
 personal favorite, using the fighter plane, differed from my other friends who have this game as 
 well. In other words this game definetly plays to you as a player and gives you the freedom to 
 get comfertable. A great game a great buy any time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougo1807
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Battlestations Midway is overall a very good game. The gameplay is very addicting, and online play 
 will keep you occupied for hours on end. The campaign starts out at Pearl Harbor. You play as a 
 PT boat and your main objective is to shoot down planes. It is fun, but after a while it gets boring. 
 But the campaign gets better from there. After your first mission, things start to pick up and 
 you start to attack enemy ships. As you rise in rank, you command bigger ships (more ships too) . 
 You also get to fly and control bombers, torpedeo bombers, dive bombers, and fighters. The visuals 
 in the cinematics are impressive. The graphics during gameplay are good, but not the best, although 
 the first mission at Pearl Harbor looks fantastic. The smoke that fills the area is amazing. The 
 sound is good in this game. You'll hear ship sirens going off when they are sinking and each plane 
 has its own sound to it. I haven't beaten the game yet so I don't know how many missions, planes, 
 ships, subs, etc there are, but so far it looks like there are a lot. I have only played on Rookie, 
 so the missions I have gotten to so far are fairly easy, but I'm sure they will get harder as the 
 game progresses. For each mission there are a variety of Primary and Secondary objectives for you 
 to accomplish. It is hard to say what the learning curve is because I already knew how to play 
 because I had played the demo before I bought it. The demo is similar to the game, but in the game 
 you can launch more planes off of carriers. There are a few other things in the game that aren't 
 in the demo. If you like RTS games, or pretty much any kind of war game, this game is for you. 
 It is one of a kind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrMom686
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Battlestations is a mighty fine game. It reminds me slightly of Rise of Nations, in the respect 
 that you command air and sea forces in an RTS atmosphere. It takes about 30 minutes to adjust to 
 the different ships, planes, and weapons available on your fleet, but once you're adjusted to what 
 works against what, it's fairly easy to be successful.
  
  The best part of the game, in my opinion, is that once you have units under your command, you have 
 the choice ot either give them orders and sit around watching, or take control of them yourself 
 with fairly realistic controls. This can attract players that aren't just diehard RTS players who 
 prefer the sitting and watching. I am more of a get to business with guns guy, so I like taking 
 control.
  
  Online play is solid. When you're by yourself, you command multiple shipyards, aircraft carriers, 
 hangars, wand all the units they make; this can be a bit overwhelming. In an 8 player online match, 
 however, you command one unit maker and the units it creates, allowing you to focus on a few units 
 and command more selectively.
  
  The only issues I have with the game with the game is chasing down annoying aircraft carriers who 
 run away when they're the last enemy left, as closing on foes can be slow and tedious; another 
 issue is that when people quit in the middle of a game, it places the burden on the teamates to 
 pick up the slack, creating an unfair advantage for the other team.
  
  In conclusion, Battlestations: Midway is a necessary choice for gamers who have any remote interest 
 in strategy games and/or the money to spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsurfer_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The multi-player game on XBL is amazing and it is fun. The only problem I had at first was not 
 knowing how to play, since then I have learned the tricks to winning and I love it. I can't wait 
 for the whole game to come out. before you play this game, watch the walk through video on XBL, 
 it will help. Also don't get mad and quit go into a room and play a few 1 on 1 matches so you can 
 learn all of the control's, then move up to the larger games. The 4 on 4 multi-player is very cool, 
 because it allows you to pick between aircraft and ships. In the demo regardless of the side you 
 are on you need to go after your shipyard, it is easy to blow up, and without it the enemy will 
 not be able to make ships. Ships pack the biggest bunch so you need to protect your shipyard. Once 
 the ship yard it taken out destroy any ships that got away, then go after the Carrier, if your 
 Japan, or the airfield if you are the US. If you start as the US divide your carriers and move 
 them south this will help protect them. Get this game it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macual
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting a long time for a real time strategy game for the 360. I am sorry LOTR did 
 not due it for me. Small maps suck... This game rocks. I have been playing the demo for a week. 
 I finally get the chance to play the real thing. I love it... More 360 RTS games please... The 
 graphics are alright. But I just hope the online game is as good as the demo with more units.... 
 Playing the single player mode is okay. Once you get past a couple of learning stages. You finally 
 get to command a fleet. I am there now. So get ready, Japan, MAC is coming. Those are not birds 
 in the air they are my dive bombers.... I really enjoy this game. I hope that everyone gets this 
 game so that I can destroy you all online... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
