-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield: Bad Company
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/battlefieldbadcompany/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Blowing stuff up has rarely been this fun.
 Great collection of gadgets and vehicles.
 Massive 24-player maps.
 Finally a fleshed-out single-player game.
 Excellent balance in player classes, vehicle strength, and map layouts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some enemies in campaign never graduated basic training.
 Conquest mode not available at launch.
 Graphics and textures appear grainy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 4,903 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA DICE
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With its great multiplayer action and fleshed-out single-player campaign, Bad Company really isn't 
 bad at all. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Battlefield: 
 Bad Company Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Jon Miller lays waste to the destructible environments in Battlefield: Bad Company in this video 
 review.       Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Blowing stuff up has 
 rarely been this fun  &nbsp;      Great collection of gadgets and vehicles  &nbsp;      Massive 
 24-player maps  &nbsp;      Finally a fleshed-out single-player game  &nbsp;      Excellent balance 
 in player classes, vehicle strength, and map layouts.                The Bad            Some enemies 
 in campaign never graduated basic training  &nbsp;      Conquest mode not available at launch  
 &nbsp;      Graphics and textures appear grainy.                      After The Fact:  Reviews 
 Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Multiplayer Maps    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:24 
 pm PT      With the release of the free "Community Choice Pack" an extra four maps are now available 
 for use in Conquest mode. The new maps are titled Acta Non Verba, Crossing Over, Ghost Town, and 
 Par For the Course. &nbsp;         &laquo; Prev Update &nbsp;|&nbsp;  All Updates (2)  &nbsp;|&nbsp; 
  Next Update &raquo;            

  In Battlefield: Bad Company, no one is safe. Not a sniper hiding inside a tower. Not a soldier 
 driving a massive tank. And definitely not you, as you bob and weave across a fiery sandbox of 
 destruction. If you thought the action of the Battlefield franchise was intense before, you haven't 
 seen anything yet. Thanks to a fleshed-out single-player campaign, Battlefield's trademark multiplayer 
 action, and a new level of destructibility, Bad Company is quite simply one of the most fun shooters 
 released this year.  

           Sweetwater and Haggard entertain themselves, and you, with a little rock-paper-scissors 
 in between firefights.      

  With its Frostbite engine, Dice has created a warzone that is almost completely destructible. Nooks 
 and crannies that were once a safe haven in other shooters can be reduced to rubble with a well-placed 
 tank shell or mortar strike. Is a quaint Russian home standing between you and an objective? Blow 
 a hole in a wall and walk right through. The system is not perfect since not all buildings can 
 be completely destroyed. Some materials like brick may crumble to dust, but wood crates will often 
 withstand whole missile strikes. Frostbite has its foibles, but Bad Company still gives new meaning 
 to breaking and entering.  

  A good place for new players to enter is Bad Company's single-player campaign. That's right, a 
 Battlefield game has a bona fide single-player campaign and not a collection of multiplayer maps 
 littered with AI bots. You play as Private Preston Marlowe, recently reassigned to the 222nd Battalion, 
 B Company, which is a collection of misfits and castoffs that the Army likes to send into battle 
 first. B Company, in short, is expendable. You complete a four-man squad composed of Sergeant Redford, 
 a grizzled veteran who volunteered for B Company so he could retire early; Sweetwater signed on 
 to take advantage of a college scholarship without realizing he may actually have to fight; and 
 Haggard is a country bumpkin and demolitions expert who loves to blow stuff up. Together, you'll 
 fight your way into Russian territory and take out a number of well-guarded installations. When 
 the Army leaves you stranded behind enemy lines -- something about plausible deniability -- the squad 
 goes AWOL in search of mercenary gold. Along the way you'll rescue a flamboyant dictator that resembles 
 Saddam Hussein on ecstasy, and then make your escape in a pimped-out gold chopper. No, the story 
 isn't exactly the stuff of Stephen Ambrose, but the tongue-in-cheek humor and numerous unlockables 
 scattered throughout the campaign make it worth fighting.  

  Marlowe is a jack of all trades and can handle any of the weapons and vehicles in Bad Company. 
 Often he'll be in control of a mortar strike or laser designator that can lay waste to entire villages. 
 The designator is meant to be used on heavy armor, but it's hard to resist dropping 50-ton bombs 
 on lone troops just for the heck of it. There's a short recharge time so you don't inadvertently 
 start World War III here, but you'll never get tired of unleashing explosive mortar strikes on 
 our foes.  

  Your squadmates are full of friendly chatter during the campaign, but they never die and don't 
 work together very well at times. Whereas multiplayer requires you to coordinate with your teammates, 
 single-player feels as if you're truly playing alone, with three characters in the background that 
 only list new objectives and provide a little comic relief. They'll take out a few enemies, man 
 turrets and take cover, but you're doing the bulk of the work. This wouldn't be so much of an issue 
 if friends could jump online for a little co-op, but there's no option to do so unfortunately. 

  Enemy soldiers are not exactly the sharpest bunch and some have no problem standing in the open, 
 waiting for their own demise. Luckily there are so many enemies and objectives that the game never 
 feels easy, but the firefights would be even more intense if enemies more frequently made use of 
 cover, if only so you could blow it up. Marlowe comes equipped with an automatic health injector 
 that refills your life bar and can be used over and over again after a short recharge. Is stabbing 
 yourself in the heart with this panacea any more unrealistic than regenerating health as seen in 
 Call of Duty 4 and Rainbow Six Vegas? Not really. But it certainly feels cheap plunging that needle 
 into your chest every 20 seconds during an intense battle, something you'll surely do toward the 
 campaign's final few missions that border on ridiculousness. You would think that four Army oddballs 
 versus an entire mercenary force and Russian army equipped with tanks and attack choppers wouldn't 
 stand a chance, but you would be wrong, thanks to the handy health injector.  

  When you've got the hang of the weapons and gadgets of the single-player campaign, jump into Bad 
 Company's excellent online multiplayer mode. It's called Gold Rush, but it's really just a basic 
 attack and defend mode in which an attacking team tries to blow up crates of gold. If you're successful, 
 a larger portion of the map opens and the attackers push forward to do it all over again. This 
 has been done before in other games, but no one does it better than Bad Company, thanks to absolutely 
 massive maps that support 24 players, a vehicle list that includes tanks, jeeps, choppers, boats, 
 and Humvees, as well as laser-guided rocket turrets and artillery cannons. There are five character 
 classes in multiplayer and each has its own special abilities and unlockable extras that will make 
 you giddy. The specialist can lace enemy vehicles for demolitions experts -- their rockets will automatically 
 hone in on tagged targets. The sniper can utilize the laser designator to nullify tanks, and the 
 specialist can drop med kits, repair vehicles, and call in mortar strikes.  

  It's strange that the conquest mode in which teams vie for points on the map and drain enemy tickets, 
 a mainstay of the Battlefield franchise, is absent. The mode will purportedly be made available 
 as a free download at some point, but it should've been in the game right out of the box. That 
 said, you're not likely to get bored of Gold Rush anytime soon. The maps are perfectly balanced 
 with defensive turrets and offensive weaponry, and often matches are decided by the smallest of 
 margins. This is the kind of game where you call your friends to let them know you somehow sniped 
 an enemy chopper pilot or dropped a missile on the final gold crate on a map for the win. The game 
 would've benefited from more vehicles; there aren't nearly as many on each map as you find in Battlefield 
 2, so teammates will often fight over fun toys such as choppers. But with its persistent ranking 
 system and unlockable weapons, Bad Company is surely the most addicting multiplayer shooter since 
 Call of Duty 4.  

           Unlock the laser designator in multiplayer to drop guided bombs. The best part? You do 
 the guiding.      

  Be sure to crank the volume up to 11 -- Bad Company has some of the finest sound design out there. 
 A sniper shot echoes perfectly through the mountains, while indoor firefights are so loud you may 
 want earplugs. Visually the game does not fare as well. While it's by no means ugly, there is a 
 strange graininess on each texture. Even looking into the clear blue sky in the first scene of 
 the game, you'll be amazed at how fuzzy it looks. Of course, the destructible environments and 
 exciting explosions make up for any graphical shortcomings.  

  Battlefield Bad Company is the most fun, addictive shooter released so far this year. While far 
 from perfect, the intense sandbox warfare is something that you have to experience. Dice calls 
 it tactical destruction. We call it explosive fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (419 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lmaolol122
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  something we dont see often is a FPS that focuses more on comedy then epicness or seriousness. Bad 
 company is a extremely funny game.
  
  Pros:
  like i said, extremely funny game. online is most deep online shooter ive ever played. the prefect 
 selection of weapons and gadgets. feeling like blowing stuff up? over here, in a full multiplayer 
 game room, not ONE building will stay intact. no screaming 8 year olds. gold rush is great! great 
 online maps. big and wide opened. so no crazy grenade battle like in Call of duty 4.
  
  Cons: no private mode. gold rush is fun. but that and conquest mode (add-on) is the only multiplayer 
 mode. no host match option. friendly fire is always on. really long singleplayer missions. (20-50 
 minutes for a single mission) NO CO-OP how come theres no co op? really! thats messed up!
  
  overall... best shooter of the year. perfect 10 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garfield360UK
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company
  
  Gameplay
  
  Battlefield Bad Company has some very good gameplay mechanics, however most are not original. This 
 being the fourth game in the Battlefield series (Battlfield 1942, Battlefield /Modern Combat, and 
 2142 were released before this) this is understandable. However, the game plays alot like Call 
 of Duty 4 but a little less tight on the gunplay but it still works well. Vehicle combat is solid 
 but fans of the series may be disapointed by the underpowered wepons on tanks for use in both single 
 player and multiplayer. However, the two combined work well and are above average in how good they 
 feel to myself so this feature is very good but both can be excelled in other games (gunplay mechanics 
 in Call of Duty 4 for instance and vehicle combat by the previous Battlefield games which is supprising) .
 
  
  Sometimes it can be frustrating when you are playing this and you die quickly as your tank takes 
 too long to load or your wepons feel a bit off but this can be overlooked given time.
  
  Graphics
  
  Excelent realistic graphics are seen in the current Battlefield game. With visual 
 affects such as grain making the game appear realistic and varied areas such as tropical islands, 
 golf courses, and the middle of forrests to blown out towns, this works well.
  
  The detail in the vehicles is ever present for the Battlefield series and has taken steps forward 
 for the less detailed vehicles and environments seen in the 1942 game. With explosions that will 
 light up your screen, stunning lighting effects and much more, this game is one of many this generation 
 that make a high definition TV worthwhile.
  
  
  Sound
  
  With the sound, there is a conistently good effects being pumped out of your speekers. With the 
 now reknown "The Beast" by Milt Buckner playing in the menus to the individual tanks and gun shots 
 being recongniseable there is little to fault here. The voices of your comarades in single player 
 being very good and worth listening to for the game jokes you will find the game both funny and 
 enthralling as you enter combat.
  
  One fault here however is the lack of full team talk online! Why this was not done is unknown but 
 you are broken down into squads and with teamplay being key online this is somewhat short sighted 
 by Dice.
  
  Story
  
  Excellent for a Battlefield game, read more inside if you wish to see the details.
  
  [spoiler] What 
 can I say, this is a big supprise how good the game was. With you starting of as a newbie in the 
 B company for the United States Army (known as Bad Company) you fight alongside your comrades through 
 many situations. However, when gold is found you and Bad Company take it upon yoursevles to get 
 rich quick! With a policial power being saved by yourselves there are many jokes and parodies of 
 what is currently happening in the real world, the game will both make you laugh and also enjoy 
 the sometimes soft side of the characters. Each person in your group is individually characterised 
 so they all wish to do different things and so this works really well. And with the ending opening 
 up the chance of a sequal I hope to see these characters return in the next game. [/spoiler]
  
  Multiplayer
  
  This is usually a main draw to the Battlefield games. With this version 
 you get just Gold Rush to begin with where its bascially deffend a create with one team or try 
 and capture it with another. This is done over a huge map. However, free content was done a while 
 ago to allow the old modes from the Battlefield games many PC players and console gamers will know 
 well in conquest mode and team deathmatch. The main issue for me is the lack of full team chat 
 but on the other hand the squad system allows you to respawn next to squad buddies and so not have 
 so far to walk (or drive into battle) . There are other problems such as some will camp in long 
 range artierley but with collectables like dog tags off people you get into close combat with and 
 medals earnt by doing different challanges, multiplayer will keep you going for sometime for the 
 completists out there.
  
  Overall
  
  An excellent addition to any FPS gamers collection. With some issues such as lack of team talk, 
 too big maps in multiplayer sometimes, and also frustration with underpowered wepons and armour 
 making the game feel like its cheating. However, all of this can be overlooked with time and you 
 will find a very rewarding and enjoyable experience that will keep you ocupied for many hours.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a good FPS about a U. S soldier named Preston Marlowe (you) , who did 
 something (and what exactly he did is nvr said in the game, just that he could go to jail for it) 
 against Army rules. He is put in "Bad" Company, or "B" Company. He tags along as the new guy with 
 companions Sgt. Redford, Pvt. Sweet-water and Haggard (who is hilarious) . They discover a gold bar 
 and try to attain the rest of them for retirement (In Redford's case) and to be rich (in the other 
 2's) Marlowe kinda tags along for the ride.
  
  The game play has some innovative things, like the awesome ability to use a grenade lancher to 
 blow thro walls, along with other explosive devices. Its also a sandboxish FPS, which is surprising 
 how well that turned out. The sound is possibly the BEST sound i have ever heard in video games, 
 it sounds as if your shooting from a real gun. Its just plain awesome. The voice acting's not bad 
 itself, it gets you into the moment well enough. The graphics are good, not outstanding, but good. 
 Even tho they did the guns very well. The only thing thats missing from this category is at least 
 a little blood. Cuz theres none whatsoever.
  
  The multiplayer is good, but not as good as Call of Duty's. I mean theres some unlockables, but 
 theres not enough depth for some real, awesome multiplayer. But its still good. And the Russian 
 Mercs speak Russian in an annoying voice, which may make you dislike them. You can choose inbetween 
 5 classes (Assault, Support, Demo, Recon, and Spec Ops) all of which ar important to the battlefield. 
 Support is a must have, without it, theres no way to heal unless your an Assault that has unlocked 
 the life-2. This poses as a problem as only half the ppl use a mic, and working together is a different 
 story. Cuz working as a team, is everything in this.
  
  So overall this is a great game, exspecially now that its $35 used. (@ Gamstop) This game is worth 
 getting for the singleplayer alone if thats what you what, but a nice mix of Multi and single is 
 what makes this game great.
  Gameplay: 9.3
  Graphics: 8.2
  Sound:10
  Replay Value: Moderately High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombehhhh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I found myself really enjoying this game. It's one of the more realistic first person shooters 
 out there. The first thing I'll point out is the game's design. Let me just say this thing first. 
 Blowing holes in buildings is very fun and useful. The control setup is very simple and not very 
 complicated. It took me about ten minutes to master the controls. Next, allow me to point out the 
 story. This game has a story that is about as good as the Terminator stories. It does not have 
 a complex story or ideas. It involves the main character named Preston Marlow, and his squad of 
 outlaws who could have been sent to prison but were put in the Army instead, stealing mercenary 
 gold and killing Russian terrorists. I have not yet beaten the game, but I do respect it's simple 
 story. The presentation in this game is something to behold. It looks and sounds great. When you 
 get shot, all the other noises become distant and distorted. It is very neat. Hearing gunshots 
 off in the distance in both singleplayer and multiplayer was an awesome experience. Which brings 
 me to the multiplayer topic. I strongly believe that the multiplayer is better than the story mode. 
 I have only played Gold Rush so far, which has one team defending gold crates and another team 
 trying to destroy the crates. It is very cool and gives a break from deathmatch options, which 
 are also in the game to my understanding. It is very cool to have up to 11 people on each team 
 and having a big brawl. It is very realistic and makes for some intense, and sometimes frustrating 
 games. The good thing is that you can quit the game at any time without losing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  
  The good: fantastic visuals - beyond amazing sound - pretty much everything can be destroyed - 
 Has one of the best game modes of multiplayer history - awesome multiplayer - very good campaign 
 - great acting (also funny) .
  
  
  The bad: Weapons as usual in BF games dont feel all that powerful - you cant destroy a whole lot 
 in the multiplayer - classes feel unbalanced - no co-op.
  
  
  The battlefield series has been known for its awesome multiplayer and crappy single player bot 
 matches. But that all changes in this game.. This time there is a really good campaign with the 
 same awesome multiplayer, giving gamers the best of both worlds.
  
  In the campaign you play as Preston Marlowe in Bad company (hence the game name) . Now bad company 
 is a squad of misfits and well... People who just got into trouble.
  Now they are not like criminals exactly but they just did something wrong in the "regular" military 
 so they get put in the Bad company. You have three squad members, Haggard the demolitions expert 
 who just likes it when things blow up and is probably the funniest game character of alltime and 
 is only in the military to blwo things up (not a bad reason) . Sweetwater who is the nerd like guy 
 with glasses and is always worried about getting killed and whatever and only joined the military 
 to get a scholarship to collage. Sergant Redford the leader of the sqaud who is always getting 
 mad at Haggard sweetwater for screwing up or messing around and joined to get early retirement. 
 And Miss July who is your informant and gives you your next objective (she is not really a squad 
 member) .
  Well it goes like this The B company was doing a routine mission behind Russian lines and then 
 they all of a sudden get left behind by the Military as expendable. And you go AWOL after finding 
 a Bar of gold. SO the rest of this action packed filled with humor campaign is about getting gold 
 and striking it rich. Its not a bad storyline in fact its probably one of the best storylines just 
 because its believeble and has probably happened before.
  You will go through seven missions that will each take an hour or longer depending what difficulty 
 setting you have it on. Easy is easy normal is a bit harder and hard is really hard.
  Instead of health packs littered around the map your given a health injector which you have at 
 all times and you cannot trade for any other item. And if you do it on normal or higher you will 
 be using the health injector A LOT not because your bad at it or anything but because the enemy 
 AI could hit you from across the map more than likely.
  In each mission there are vehicles at almost every turn and are the best way of getting around 
 since getting to your next objective on foot would take a while you wil encounter jeeps APC's tanks 
 boats choppers and each are fun to drive and the controls for driving are pretty good to. And there 
 are also plenty of different weapons to experiment with like your standard issue M4 carbine which 
 you will want to ditch as quickly as possible to get a better weapon. There are also shotguns, 
 sniper rifles, Supressed Smg's, Light machine guns as well as assault rifles.
  You can carry only one weapon at a time if its an assault rifle then your secondary weapons is 
 your grenade launcher, sniper rifles have a pistol, Lmg's, smg's, and shotguns have grenades. You 
 will always have your health injector along another item whether that be a RPG a L. A. W. rocket 
 launcher, a mortar strike thing that looks like a GPS, a laser designator which can only be called 
 on vehicles and turrets, a powertool to repair damaged vehicles and a few others. Using the laser 
 designator lets you guide the missle using the sticks which is pretty fun and usefull since your 
 target will be moving around more than likely.
  Having a mortar strike or a RPG wont exactly make your job to kill the enemy to much easier but 
 blowing up things is fun period.
  Weapons in the campaign feel pretty powerful especially the shotguns which only really take one 
 shot at close range. The guns do feel pretty realistic like the recoil for instance in order to 
 have more accurate shots you will have to fire in short bursts otherwise your shots will be all 
 over the place.
  The campaign will probably take around 8 hours not too long but not too short and there are also 
 collectibles and gold bars in most of the missions you can find to get achievements.
  
  
  Now the multiplayer is no doubt some of the best out there with up to 24 players online and DLC 
 game mode conquest with a few maps.
  Now if the multiplayer only had the gold rush mode which is basically a attack and defend game 
 mode only one team is defending gold and the other is trying to take it over i would say that the 
 MP is ok but with the edition of conquest mode the MP is simply awesome.
  Conquest mode is where on each map there are bases around the map and each team starts with one 
 and you have to try and capture more and more so that the enemies will hopefully run out of tickets. 
 Each team has a even set amount of tickets and you lose tickets by getting killed or if the enemy 
 controls more bases then your team. 
  There are 5 different classes you can pick from.
  
  Assault: this is the backbone of each team they dont have any special abilities but they are the 
 only class that has a health injector but that has to be unlocked.
  
  Demolitions: this class has a shotgun a RPG or rocket launcher and is probably the wort class to 
 use on the bigger maps.
  
  Recon: this is the sniper class the sniper class is very useful the sniper has enemy detectors 
 which look like baseballs only with lots of holes in them and you can throw these on the ground 
 and any enemy that walks with in a certain amount of area with the detectors they will automatically 
 show up n everyones radar. The recon class can also unlock the laser designator to take out tanks, 
 but this class has no way to heal themselves unless the go to a support class teamate for some 
 medkits.
  
  Specialist: This class uses only Smg's which have supressors and the also have grenades a tracer 
 which can tag enemy vehicles in order for friendly demo class who can use there rocket launcher 
 to home onto the enemy vehicle, and the can also unlock C4.
  
  Support: probably the most unbalanced class since they have a LMG a mortar strike that can be unlocked 
 medkits and a powertool to repair vehicles.
  
  Each class will have to work together in order to acomplish the objective if one player tries to 
 go off and do his or her own thing they will most likely fail.
  There are quite a few maps and they are all huge with the exception of a few.
  One of my favorite 
 maps and one that seems to be the most popular for conquest mode would have to be Par for the course. 
 The map is actually a golf course (since when did they have golf in russia?) and its pretty fun 
 with golf karts around the map and lots of sniping places to hide.
  Another map that made an impression is harvest day im not sure if its based after a mission like 
 par for the course but it is very well laid out and has lots of vehicles including choppers whichi 
 only a few maps have choppers whicih is too bad since in the previous battlefiels there were flying 
 vehicles on almost every map.
  There is also a rank system sorta like COD4 except when you get credits to unlock weapons and items 
 you can choose what you want to unock instead of the game choosing for you which is nice since 
 you will probably want to choose the best weapons first since you start with bare bones basic.
 
  You can get EXP to rank up by doing several different things. Killing an enemy gets you ten, getting 
 a kill assist gets you 3, healing a teamate gets you 15 repairing a freindly vehicle gets you 15, 
 destroying an enemy vehicle gets you ten, a headshot 5, defending a base or objective 3. And a 
 squad asisst gets you 6. There are lots of ways to get EXP and that was just a few of teh many 
 ways to get EXP.
  The players on each team on divided into different squads of 4 players per squad if there are enough 
 players if not then there will be odd numbers in the squad. Sticking with your squad is almost 
 always neccesary if you want to survive. And quite a lot i actually felt like apart of something 
 when me and my squad did something another squad couldnt it just gives you the feeling of acomplishment.
 
  But the bad thing about squads is that if have a headset those are the only people you can talk 
 to during the entire game. Now i know that DICE did that to make it feel more tactical but not 
 being able to talk strategy with other players besides your squad frankly it kinda sucks.
  You can rank up as far as rank 25 and when you reach it you unlock weapons only avalible to those 
 that are rank 25. It might seem like a low rank givem in cod4 you can rank up to level 55 ten times 
 and halo 3 takes a long long time to ever even begin to get to the last rank. But it does take 
 a little while to rank all the way up and heck im not going to stop playing after ranking up all 
 the way. The multiplayer is too damn fun.
  
  
  The sound is no doubt THE best sound i have ever heard in a game. Sniper shots echo while indoor 
 fights echo crazy and your footsteps echo in side as well and so does reloading your weapon. And 
 bullet shells hitting the ground sounds real almost. And it should almost be a sin to play this 
 game with surround sound. And also the acting is very good. And this game is home to the funniest 
 cutscenes EVER.
  
  The graphics also are very very well done. From character animation to vehicles, trees, weapons 
 it is all very very well done.
  
  
  While the past battlefield games have had crappy single player bot sessions and awesome multiplayer. 
 We now have the best of both. With an awesome and funfilled campaign to the beyond awesome multiplayer 
 that can easily rival call of duty 4's multiplayer. This game is far beyond worth the asking price.
 
  
  
  Campaign: 9.0/10
  Multiplayer: 9.6/10
  Gameplay: 9.8/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.9/10 (seriously its that awesome)
  Funnesfactor: 9.8/10
  Overall score: 9.6/10
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Fun and funny. That describes Bad Company in a nut shell. Well written, good voice acting, and 
 cool splosions made this worth my money. a lot of fun innovations and gratifying results along 
 the way. main campaign took around 9 hours as i recall. 
  
  although many have criticized the "grainy" appearance, i really like the desturated and gritty 
 feel of the environments. great lighting effect and character rendering, BTW. this game is no cakewalk 
 on higher difficulties. a couple areas actually get frustrating. for example, at one point heavily 
 armed ships shell the heck out of buildings, destroying your cover right before your eyes. 
  
  another thing that really stood out was the truly amazing sound. so ambient, directional and 
 layered - amazing! crank it up, it really adds to the experience of pulling the trigger. oh, and 
 the opening credits song - The jazz/organ Beast from 1956, is a crazy awesome choice to compliment 
 this game. my wife liked it so much, we hunted it down and bought it on itunes.
  
  the dictator story line comes to a very funny conclusion and i thank the makers of this FPS for 
 including such an engaging script. clearly they had fun making this too. driving golf carts being 
 chased by tanks was also good for a LOL, as the kids say...
  
  one downside from my perspective were a few scenes that involved a hell of a lot of hoofing it 
 across endless open landscapes after having a vehicle blown out from under me. these long interludes 
 of huffing and puffing hurt the game flow.
  
  the other was that compared to my first multiplayer experience ever - COD WAW, this one's seemed 
 pretty dullsville. should try it again before being too dismissive though. 
  
  long and short - awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xprimentyl
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This title has the makings of a classic, in fact, there's is quite a bit to be appreciated online 
 right out of the box in a unique, fully realized warzones replete with almost completely destructible 
 environments, a vast arsenal at your disposal, vehicles covering land, sea and sky and fast-paced 
 acrtion tying it all together. (Not to mention some decent, FREE downloadable content!) But the 
 single player thus far has completey stepped on it's own feet creating an initially fun and destructive 
 outing that turns into a grind of epic proportions. 
  
  The mission are pretty much samey "go here and kill everyone until ominous female voice over the 
 radio radio tells you to go somewhere else and kill everyone." Simple enough to match the off-color 
 humor that abounds throughout the game; it fairly well manages to keep the atmosphere light and 
 airy in lieu of more serious and grave shooters like Call of Duty or Ghost Recon. Get's repetitve 
 quickly, however; that's why the Frosbite engine allows you to blow up everything, so you can keep 
 yourself entertained; kinda like a one-year-old in a playpen, trapped in a simple box but strangely 
 content...
  
  The maps are ENORMOUS which is generally a great thing... until you die and are re-spawned halfway 
 across the map and miles from the objective you were approaching; obsessive hidden collectable 
 seekers be warned; many a time, I found myself way off the beaten path for 20 minutes at a time 
 only to me murdered and half to trek ALL THE WAY back to where I died. Hopefully you spawn near 
 a vehicle or else you're in for an epic walk ala Lord of the Rings (and that strange, bald, emaciated, 
 skeletal figure following you everywhere and talking to "his precious" is me, lost somewhere out 
 in BFE looking for that last gold bar...
  
  The team AI is terrible, easily the worst I've had the misfortune of dealing with. First of all, 
 it's never quite explained why you, as the newest memeber of the Bad Company foursome, constantly 
 find yourself LEADING your squad despite the Sarge, the gruff spiritual ancestor of Halo's Sargent 
 Johnson, barking orders and "taking charge" in all the cinematics. Their genius is counter-pointed 
 by seemingly brilliant enemy AI who wield fully automatic assault weaponry with surgical precision 
 and are clearly only interested in killing YOU. Seriously, I can't count the number of times my 
 squad of MENSA flunkies would be standing directly in front of four enemies in plain sight, not 
 firing, and those same enemies would perceive me, the guy cowering behind the blown up building 
 and stabbing himself in the chest with a miracle cure-all needle, as the threat!
  
  All of this amounts to yet another game which has failed to balance its on and offline experiences 
 and missed the mark on what easily could have been a GREAT game. If you're sold on a great mutliplayer 
 experience, look no further; if you're off-line or more concerned with a rich single-player experience, 
 you might wanna look elsewhere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRebel5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  All of the games in the battlefield series have had pretty terrible single player modes. Battlefield 
 bad company replaces playing mu lti player style games with the mindless bots with an actual single 
 player campaign. It is relatively short, having beat it in six hours myself, but it is still leaps 
 and bounds better then it's predecessor. While you will occasionally be frustrated with the enemy 
 A. I., it is still a nice experience.
  The bread and butter of all battlefield games has always been it's strong mu lti player. In this 
 regard it is exactly the same. All that really needs to be said is that it's totally addicting 
 and just a great time overall. With tons of objectives and unlock able weapons to go along with 
 them, you will be playing for quite some time before you get them all done. Did I mention the completely 
 realistic physics as well as the completely destructible environment? Because it has those too. 
 The bullets actually have travel time, and this means that yes, you will have to lead your target. 
 Sniping also becomes more challenging and more rewarding at the same time. You will find there 
 is nothing better then bringing down a target that is in full sprint one thousand meters away. 
 Also the completely destructible environments mean that no hiding place is safe, at least no for 
 very long. The days of camping are pretty much over because if there is a pesky sniper hiding at 
 the top of a building, one quick mortar strike and he will be gone, or at least exposed. 
  So overall this is really a great game, and a great buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellboySpawn73
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:01 pm PT
Review:  When a first-person shooter comes along and offers you something new while still dishing up all 
 you'd expect in such a genre, you have to stand up and applaud. Bad Company is one of those landmark 
 games in my book.
  
  Let's tick the boxes: heaps of different guns you can pick up along the way, a great variety in 
 vehicles you can jump into, and a fun and immersing single-player campaign that dishes up it's 
 fair share of challenging levels and scenarios. The standard formula is all there. But there are 
 some delightful additions.
  
  For one, the fully interactive environment is a real treatyou can blow up anything and anyone 
 from any angle, and each time the result will accurately reflect your method and direction of assault. 
 Launching grenades from your gun to take out walls (and enemies behind the walls) is way cool. 
 And even cooler is targeting remote mortar attacks on buildings that house a bunch of heavily armed 
 AI. Why put yourself at risk by going in and engaging directly with the enemy when you can take 
 them all out with mass-destructive style from afar.
  
  And this takes us to the weapon selection. From a feast of machine guns to some tasty sniper rifles 
 and shot guns, the essentials are covered. But add on the mortar remote, missile launchers, C4, 
 and video-guided missiles, you cannot possibly get bored. The game only allows you to carry one 
 type of conventional weapon plus one type of mass destruction weapon at a time  but this is a 
 positive because it gives the game great replay value because you're compelled to go back and redo 
 levels using different combinations of weapons.
  
  The solo campaign is well scripted and has a good plot. Your AI comrades in your squad are great 
 value  the cut scene banter is quite funny, and so is a lot of the dialogue through the gameplay. 
 Plus as opposed to a lot of other lesser shooters, your comrades in Bad Company actually do some 
 killing, making them quite helpful at timesand even better, they never die so you're not bound 
 to protect them like other annoying games that have you failing missions if any or all of your 
 squad dies. This means you can just focus on how you want to tackle a sortieby stealth from afar 
 or all guns blazing. It's up to you and you're AI friends won't get in the way or screw it up for 
 you.
  
  I'll confess to not having played any multiplayer yet, so I can't comment on that component. But 
 for those looking for a compelling shooter with a fun, challenging and well-lengthed solo campaign, 
 Bad Company offers that in spades regardless of whether you get into the online multiplayer action 
 or not. I look at the multiplayer as a bonus I can pick up when I've exhausted the single-player 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo-EGOS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game is the kind of game that is a game of a war, but not just that.
  
  Your squad feels like real people, they are not just killing machines, because they have their 
 own personality sweetwater is a full time coward, hagard is a jack ass and the boss is the kind 
 of people you dont want to find in the street.
  
  the story keeps you IN the game, you will want to know what happens to them later, who are you 
 fighting what happens to the gold and many other things.
  
  The multiplayer is very competitive, because you will have to kill to earn ranks, and, when you 
 earn ranks some time you will earn unlock points that you can use to unlock weapons and gadgets 
 to use in the battlefield.
  
  This game would be really good if you want to play whit your friends or if you want to play alone, 
 there are many weapons and weapon classes, shotguns machine guns, pistol, sniper, sub machine gun, 
 c4, RPG, mortar strike, laser guided missiles.
  
  also you can download extra maps and another gaming mode, so, this might be the best single player 
 battlefield ever
  
  Really good game, go buy it on your closest gaming store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is continuing the famous Battlefield series by EA Games but this time, 
 it's not only about multiplayer. Bad Company actually has a good single-player campaign with a 
 decent story, remarkable characters, intense gameplay, cool weapons and vehicles and of course, 
 destructible environments.
  
  Bad Company takes place in Europe. You're Preston Marlowe, a man who worked on the wrong side of 
 the law, and now doing his time in B. Company; A group of misfits and castoffs who the army sends 
 into the battlefield first, though the group consists of only four soldiers including you. Your 
 leader, Sergeant Redford, is a grizzled war veteran who is supposed to be retiring soon after you 
 join. Though he's the leader, you will be doing all the leading in the game. Sweet water a smart, 
 geeky science kind of guy who signed up for the wrong program and Haggard, who's not that complicated, 
 he likes to blow things up. Together, B. Company tears up the battlefield and eventually conquering 
 other countries in this action packed single player campaign that the Battlefield team put together.
 
  
  The gameplay is mostly like any other Battlefield game, the maps are huge and there are definitely 
 vehicles for you and your squad to go driving around including jeeps and tanks to helicopters and 
 golf carts. But the new element that got everyone hyped is the destruction which is powered by 
 the Frostbite engine. And not just exploding wood cover or crumbling bricks, but real destruction. 
 Is there a house in the way? Why don't you just blow a hole in the wall with your grenade launcher! 
 Yes almost everything is destroyable in Battlefield Bad Company. Yes so now you won't feel so safe 
 in the corner in a house. 
  
  In this 12-14 hours single player campaign you'll be running through the huge maps on vehicles 
 such as tanks, humvees and helicopters using different weapons such as different shotguns, snipers, 
 assault rifles, bazookas and many more destructible weapons. And in these maps there are many collectibles 
 to find, they can be found along the route or maybe in the corners of the map. The collectibles 
 are usually crates of gold or unique weapons found. So there is a lot of replayabilty in this game.
 
  
  The multiplayer is like the rest of the games. There is a rank system, you play in a huge map with 
 a squad or a small group of people on your team and the leader can speak to the other squad leaders 
 in your team. There are the normal mutltiplayer modes but also a unique one where your team is 
 either defending or destroying the crates of gold. The game has great graphics, sound effects and 
 the music heard are perfect. Gun handling is the same as the other games and so are the vehicles.
 
  
  So this FPS game feels like many of the other games in the series but with the new Frostbite engine 
 this game revolutionizes war and how you play it. Pick up your bazooka, call your friends, go ahead 
 and blow everything to "smithereens". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Battlefield: Bad Company I thought it was gone to be just another FPS and left 
 it at that. I had some extra cash so I decided to buy it. What a Good choice for a game named BAD 
 company. Bad Company is so far from being that. I love being a part of Bad Company.
  
  Story -- It is surprisingly good, too. You are a Private that has been sent to Bad Company where 
 all the other rejects, retirees, and misfits go. Their mission: essentially take all the risk the 
 valuable Soldiers in the Army aren't allowed to. Your four man squad charges into battle and in 
 the process stumble across some gold bars. With a little talk and persuasion the misfits convince 
 their retiring SGT to chase the gold and forget being a misfit. What ensues is some hilarious, 
 action packed, and fun fire fights. You battle on foot, in vehicles, and call upon some air strikes 
 which are great.
  
  Graphics -- Surprisingly good for a game from DICE. I love the look of this game. The facial features 
 of your comrades are not exactly the best, but their moves and actions look great. The only thing 
 I didn't like is that sometimes during a fire fight it's hard to tell who is friend and who is 
 foe. There isn't a marker above your enemies head. Everything is destructible, too. Need a door? 
 Just whip out your trusty grenade launcher and make on in the side of the house. Lush outside environments 
 and great urban areas are all the order of the day when on this battle field. Lighting effects 
 from explosions stand out and make things rather interesting.
  
  Sound -- I can't remember if there is music so can't comment there. The voice acting and the things 
 they say are downright hilarious and interesting the whole time. If you are in the Army like me 
 then these characters will seem life like as two of them seem like a lot of people I know. The 
 effects of weapons sound cool and are believable. Explosions, special weapons, and vehicles all 
 sound like you are in the thick of things. You can hear your buddies as well as the enemy yell 
 certain things to each other. All around there is a great mix of sounds in this game.
  
  Game play -- This game is tough even on medium YOU ARE GOING TO DIE. As a matter of fact there is 
 an achievement for staying alive for one stage and that is no easy feat. I had to do it on easy 
 and that was tough. Sure you can use your trusty magic medic serine to heal yourself, but you have 
 got to do it fast and often. The controls are great..... it's not hard to shoot, move, and communicate 
 (like we say in the Army lol) with ease. Controlling a vehicle is somewhat tricky though. Changing 
 weapons, healing yourself, and calling in air strikes are all easy. It's just tough to not get 
 killed. It's good clean fun though and it really is the center piece of this game to me. That is 
 where it should count.
  
  Online -- There are great multiplayer options in Bad Company. I loved the team work and the way 
 it was easy to get into. I had real good fun in this game, unlike Halo 3 or Gears of War. I didn't 
 feel pressured to perform at a certain level while working with my team mates. It felt like real 
 combat going on. With classes and a fair amount of game modes I love this one. It's a game I wish 
 would last forever online, but as with other games it won't.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is an outstanding game and it's the first where I was driven to get all 
 the offline campaign achievements. It's just plain fun to play this game, and I love it. I suggest 
 people buy this game especially since the price has gone down considerably.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiABeasts
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a 7 out of 10. This is because i bought this game expecting it to be much better 
 than it actually was. To me this game is barely X-BOX 360 worthy. The graphics are great but that's 
 pretty much the only good thing about this game. The game play is annoying and you are constantly 
 shooting health back into your body but shooting health back into your body makes up for automatically 
 healing after taking cover for a while like in other games. The online multi-player is some of 
 the worst i have ever played. This game's story is alright. The characters really annoy me when 
 they talk. The maps are HUGE and on some levels i had a hard time getting to where i needed to 
 be do to the fact that i got lost. Overall this game just barely makes the good mark. If your expecting 
 a great war game... don't. If you are looking for a really good war game then i recommend you get 
 Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway or Call of Duty: World at War or Modern Warfare. (Preferably Brothers 
 in Arms: Hell's Highway) . This game really disappointed me. But despite all of the bad things i 
 said in this review, i want to get Battlefield: Bad Company 2 when it comes out, just because of 
 the potential of what i think EA can and will correct and add to make this a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msudude211
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  In late 2006, Electronic Arts released Battlefield 2142 on the PC to relative success. Two years 
 later, the Battlefield series came to consoles with the release of Battlefield: Bad Company. In 
 Bad Company, you'll be utilizing Dice's new Frostbite engine to destroy your way through a somewhat 
 short single-player and an addicting multiplayer experience. Though Bad Company is quite different 
 from its Battlefield cousins in both story and presentation, minus a few small annoyances, it's 
 a great shooter that shouldn't be passed up.
  
  In Bad Company, you play as Preston Marlowe, newcomer to the 222nd Battalion of the United States 
 Army. As soon as you meet your new squad-mates, one thing becomes apparent - "B Company," as it's 
 called, isn't your ordinary squad. It turns out that the members of B Company are the misfits of 
 the Army, deemed "expendable." Thus, your squad is often the first sent to tackle sticky situations, 
 and worse, you're often sent in alone. Luckily for you, Dice's new Frostbite engine literally makes 
 the battlefield your "sandbox." With a large array of gadgets including a motor strike, JDAM guided 
 missile, and your trusty grenade launcher, you can alter the battlefield as you see fit. Is there 
 an enemy stalking you from behind a building? Try blowing out the wall to expose him. Is there 
 a building in the way of your objective? You can blow that up too. Of course, the Frostbite engine 
 has its limits; you can't blow out ceilings or floors, and no matter how much carnage you induce, 
 the building's frame will always remain intact. Despite its limits, however, Frostbite shadows 
 over other "destructible environments" seen thus far, and therefore, gives you more options for 
 playing and enjoying this relatively linear campaign.
  
  When you're not doing cleanup work for the Army, you'll be AWOL searching for treasure. Though 
 you'll be fighting plenty of Russians, Marlowe and his ragtag squad will spend a majority of the 
 campaign hunting down a cache of hidden mercenary gold. This can get a bit dull, as you'll often 
 find yourself simply going from objective to objective chasing gold with little gameplay or story 
 variation in between. In addition, if you decide not to find the unlockable goodies or gold bars 
 for achievements, you'll find the campaign is quite short and could be finished in under ten hours 
 depending on the difficulty you play. The difficulties in Bad Company scale well, but no matter 
 what you choose, you'll notice that the AI is quite dumb. They will easily lose sight of you and 
 wont bother hunting you down should you retreat or hide. Not only that, but after a fierce firefight, 
 they'll wonder around clearings with little or no cover, oblivious to the fact that their buddy 
 just got shot a few seconds earlier in the exact same spot. And even if you're packing one of Bad 
 Company's fiercest shotguns, enemies will run willy-nilly right towards you, again oblivious to 
 the danger ahead of them. Another small annoyance is the game's appearance. The graphics are very 
 good other than a persistent grainy effect during both campaign and multiplayer. Again, this effect 
 is more of an annoyance than a problem, but is definitely noticeable. Despite the buggy AI, odd 
 grainy effect, and the relatively short campaign, Bad Company is made fun by a wide range of guns, 
 vehicles, gadgets, and the wonderful destructable environments.
  
  Another interesting aspect to the campaign is the health system. In Bad Company, you're given a 
 number between one and one hundred to represent your current health level - think Half Life. When 
 this number gets low, all you need to do is press a button to heal yourself. Upon pressing this 
 button, Marlowe will whip out an "auto injector" and his health will return to full; unlike other 
 games, your health won't refill automatically and you wont need to collect health packs or med-kits. 
 This can take some getting used to, as the auto injector has unlimited uses and no respawn time. 
 At first, you'll feel odd healing yourself every time Preston receives as little damage as a scratch. 
 But, by the end of the campaign, pressing the auto injector button every time you get hit will 
 begin to feel routine; however, this will hinder you when you wander into Bad Company's multiplayer 
 mode, where the injector has quite a long respawn time. Fortunately, this interesting health system 
 doesn't take anything away from Bad Company's gameplay. 
  
  Though Bad Company's single-player is decent, multiplayer is where the game really shines. The 
 multiplayer touts two gameplay modes: the exciting Gold Rush mode and also the Conquest mode that 
 Battlefield fans know and love. In the new Gold Rush mode, you'll either be defending a set of 
 gold crates, or attempting to blow them up - this is especially fun given Bad Companies destructible 
 environments. Though the winner of the match is usually determined what side you're on (attacking 
 is much more difficult) , the vehicles and weapon classes are well balanced, creating an engaging 
 experience. Unfortunately, Dice decided to stick to the classic Battlefield formula and did not 
 include any other death-match based modes; this is a bit of a bummer given the tendency of players 
 to not work as a team in a game mode that depends on it.
  
  As you rank up, you'll get the option of unlocking a new gadget or weapon to add to your current 
 stash. Though many of the guns feel similar, the weapon unlock system serves as a good incentive 
 to level up and continue playing. The down side about this system, however, is that there's only 
 so much to unlock and only 35 levels to climb. Once you reach level 35 there's no option to get 
 to a higher level, nor is there an option to start over and unlock the guns again like in the Call 
 of Duty games. You'll find yourself running out of things to do once you reach level 35, and as 
 a result, the online community has sort of fizzled out. Nevertheless, Bad Company's multiplayer 
 makes it one of the best to date... while it lasts.
  
  Thanks to the new Frostbite engine, Bad Company has emerged as an above-average shooter amidst 
 good competition. The campaign, though short, gives the player control of the battlefield like 
 never before with many useful weapons, vehicles, and gadgets. The multiplayer uses the same formula 
 in the new Gold Rush gameplay mode to create a winner among a market saturated with online shooters. 
 Bad Company's destructible environments let FPS fans unleash havoc on the battlefield like never 
 before, in both campaign and multiplayer. This is one game that shooter aficionados should not 
 pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klutzinator703
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:15 am PT
Review:  Welcome tro Bad Company! This is my review of one of the best first person shooters on Xbox 360 
 to date. 
  
  The Single-player: You start off as a soldier named Preston Marlowe. Throughout the campaign you 
 will learn more about the squad you will learn to love. You are in Bad Company, a company of misfits 
 and trouble makers that the U. S. army could care less about. Your squad-mates are Sergeant Samuel 
 D. Redford a. k. a. "Sarge", Sarge is your squad leader. Private Terrence Sweetwater a. k. a. "Sweetwater", 
 Sweetwater is your Tech and Comm specialist and then there is Haggard. Haggard is your explosives 
 expert. As you start off you'll quickly adapt to the controls, which fit the game perfectly. You 
 are the new guy in BC but you will soon gain the respect of the vets. Through the campaign you 
 will fight against Russians, Arabs, and Mercenaries. 
  
  The best part of the SP campaign apart from the destructible environments, which I will get to 
 in a moment, is the spot-on voice acting a character animations. The way the characters interact 
 with each other in cut-scenes is truly amazing. I have never seen anything better. The destructible 
 environments also sets a new bar for shooters everywhere and I'm glad Battlefield: Bad Company 
 was the first to use it on such a large scale. All the delays for the development of the Frostbite 
 engine was worth it. The ability to blow out a wall and snipe through the hole or see an infantryman 
 run into a house and blow it to pieces with tank is priceless.
  
  The Multi-player: This has always been the strong point for the past Battlefield games and it still 
 holds true for this one. Battlefield: Bad Company introduces players to a new game mode called 
 Gold Rush. In the Gold Rush game mode the Attackers attack the Gold Crates and try to blow them 
 up while the Defenders defend the crates. There are three to five bases with two Gold Crates per 
 base on each map. The Attackers can blow up the crates with any weapon they can find. If it shoots 
 or explodes, it can destroy the crates. The Defenders job is to defend the Gold Crates until the 
 Attackers deplete their reinforcements. Note that the Attackers get a reinforcement boost every 
 time they destroy a pair of Crates. Depending on the map both teams get access to the usual Battlefield 
 vehicles which include Attack Helicopter with the driver firing 40 mm rockets and the gunner firing 
 a 20 mm cannon (note that in the Arab's Heli the roles are reversed) , Heavy Tank with 120 mm main 
 gun and .50 caliber MG, Light Tank with 30 mm main gun and 50. caliber MG and two 7.62 (?) side 
 or back guns (depends on which team's tank it is) , Boat with two 40 mm grenade launchers and one 
 spot for a man to sit and fire his kit's guns, Car with a 50. MG caliber and two passenger spots 
 and a Dune Buggy with one grenade launcher and one 50. caliber MG plus a spot for a guy to hang 
 onto. The stationary guns include Anti-Aircraft Flak Gun, Artillery Gun, Mounted 50. caliber MG, 
 and mounted 40 mm grenade launcher. The multiplayer has a TrueSkill feature is all but reliable. 
 Multi-player also has a squad feature in which you and three buddies can "squad up" and the game 
 tries to put you all on the same team. This is where BF: BC is a letdown. 
  
  DLC: There are two DLC pack for multi-player. The first adds the cherished Conquest game mode with 
 four maps. The second is a map pack that adds four more conquest maps (and on the map Par for the 
 Course you can drive golf carts) . Most of the Conquest map follow the same principle; each team 
 spawns at the main and takes the closest flag, then both teams fight for the middle or flank and 
 take the other teams main base.
  
  Problems with Multi-player: I don't have a lot of lag issues as my Internet is good but there are 
 server lag issues that can cause the whole game to lag. The only thing that frustrates me lag wise 
 is when you are running for cover and you get behind it and still die because it took a moment 
 for the server to send the message that you were already dead. You can only voice-chat and spawn 
 with your squad which consists of you and three others. You can't chose your squad in-game. The 
 lack of player friendly options is enough to give you a headache. The biggest letdown of all was 
 lack of clan support, yes, clan support. This missing feature caused many to move on to CoD: WaW, 
 leaving this game with many inexperienced players and not enough good people to balance it out. 
 
  
  Thoughts and Wishes: I'm not saying the community is kaput, but it is not as strong here in March 
 '09 as it used to be in July-August '08. I've been with the game since launch and just got around 
 to writing a review. I've seen the ups and the down and I know that this game can be frustrating, 
 but it's addicting style of game play and unique look make this game stand out from the rest as 
 a trend setter, not follower. With the game being as cheap as it is now, I think it is a must have 
 simply to feel the power you have when you take a 120 mm shell to a house. I will be with this 
 game until Battlefield 1943 and Battlefield: Bad Company 2 come out and I hope to see you on the 
 battlefield soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19robson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:48 am PT
Review:  Ratings: 5=Excellent  1=Very Poor
  -----------------------------------
  Gameplay: 4.8
  Sound: 4.5
  Graphics: 4.7
  Campaign: 4.3
  Online (Multiplayer) : 5
  Replay Value: OFTEN
 
  -----------------------------------
  
  The Battlefield series just keeps getting better. Battlefield Bad Company is a fantastic game that 
 will keep you coming back for more whether you are playing the campaign or multiplayer which is 
 my personal favourite. The game takes place in a wartorn Russia set in the near future. You are 
 Preston Marlow, a new recruit to B Company. B-Company is a mismatched bunch of rejects selected 
 to serve their country.
  
  Bad Company features an all new, objective-based multiplayer game mode known as Gold Rush, which 
 supports 24 players online. Play as either an attacker or defender. The main objective of the attacker 
 is to destroy gold crates, and by destroying two gold crates your team moves on to next level. 
 The objective of the defender is to protect bases that house the gold crates and take down all 
 of the attackers. The maps online are of a different variety were you can change between weapons 
 to suit the maps as some are wide open but others are more enclosed.
  
  Favourite thing on the game: This has got to be blowing things up for the hell of it.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Recommended?
  Definitely if you are looking for awesome multiplayer.
  Also if you just want to blow things up for the hell of it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceBoethiah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Initially suspicious that this apparently humour-based approach to the Battlefield series was a 
 cynical marketing ploy by EA, I did not buy this game for quite a long time. However, unable to 
 resist a bargain price for the shiny Gold Edition, I soon discovered that BF: Bad Company was a 
 refreshing addition to the tired genre of vehicular-based multiplayer games. 
  
  The first, and most important feature of Bad Company that screams out for attention is the multitude 
 of awesome explosions. Visually beautiful and sonically perfect, these staples of FPS games have 
 their potential fulfilled to both shock and amaze the player. They certainly bring the immediacy 
 of the battlefield to your living room, from desperately dodging incoming tank fire to being flanked 
 and flushed out by evil gold-hungry mercenaries. Explosions are complimented by graphical excellence 
 in the highly destructible war-torn environments that you fight through and the exquisitely detailed 
 weapon textures. The destructibility adds a whole new dimension to strategy and tactics in the 
 game, with the ability to blast through walls and shoot your dazed enemies truly exhilarating.
 
  
  Weapons are satisfying and controls for them are adequately responsive, with enemy fire truly forcing 
 you to run for cover and inject yourself with health. Although enemy AI seems at times unresponsive 
 to the destruction of their bases, players will find quite a challenge from this game, especially 
 on the higher difficulty settings. Enemies use cover quite effectively and can be surprisingly 
 accurate, meaning that it is simply not possible to run around glorying in your destructive abilities 
 without being killed. These aesthetic and game play features manage to paper over the cracks of 
 the single player campaign, which is rather short and often weighed down by the amount of wisecracks 
 spewing forth from the three other members of your squad of misfits. However, it is a definite 
 improvement over the effectively 'player vs. bots'-style campaigns that plagued previous Battlefield 
 campaigns. The fact that you and your squad mates are more concerned with finding a veritable El 
 Dorado in a war zone than with spreading freedom against evil cardboard cut out enemies is certainly 
 an amusing and innovative touch. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of this game is quite obviously an integral part to any FPS game, especially 
 in the case of the Battlefield series, and it is certainly no slouch. Plenty of maps and two fun 
 game modes (Conquest mode was introduced online after release) make the multiplayer addictive and 
 engaging. Whilst Gold Rush mode is entertaining, it does seem a bit of a problem that the traditional 
 Conquest mode still provides the best multiplayer experience, and after a while Gold Rush becomes 
 slightly redundant. The classic class-based system is still there, but the multiplayer does deliver 
 a new experience-based system that unlocks new weapons as you level up. However, this system is 
 quite derivative of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, and unfortunately does not provide the same 
 depth. One area in which Battlefield games have always had an advantage is vehicular combat, with 
 helicopter strafing, jet bombing and tank blasting all familiar and welcome faces in Bad Company. 
 Whilst experience players can at times dominate maps with the heavy firepower of helicopters, certain 
 new weapons give players the same destructive abilities as vehicles. The mortar and laser-guided 
 strikes once again show off the game's prowess in the audio-visual department, and the ability 
 to destroy a troublesome tank or eliminate a nest of enemy snipers from afar gives new opportunities 
 to players previously unable to get to grips with the complexities of long range sniping. EA's 
 servers did not present any problems and delivered a smooth online experience.
  
  Overall, Battlefield: Bad Company is a great achievement, with its brilliant multiplayer, exciting 
 single player campaign and audio-visual excellence managing to rejuvenate the tired Battlefield 
 series and set a new standard in immersive FPS game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthThatWas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  If I had ten points to give out based on originality, Battlefield: Bad Company would get roughly 
 two. There is very little to be found here that hasn't been "borrowed" from some other source. 
 If you've seen the movie "Three Kings," you know the plot of the game, if you've played Call of 
 Duty 4 online, then you will be immediately familiar with the inner-workings of online play here, 
 and if you've played "Black" then you will recognize the heavy handed use of explosives (as well 
 as the insistence of gun-porn) that is found in BF: BC. 
  
  Ok, that last example of borrowed material was a little weak, seeing as how "Black" was an EA title, 
 but the comparison still stands. If I were to call BF anything, it would be the long-lost cousin 
 of the aforementioned title, and it's every bit as fun. That's right. Fun. Because what BF may 
 lack in originality, it makes up for in entertainment.
  
  BF: F
  
  As stated above, the plot in BF: BC is nothing you haven't seen before. It's pretty much a carbon 
 copy of "Three Kings" minus any kind of noble intention on the part of the main characters. Four 
 soldiers (Or "Kings") stumble across evidence of some fabled gold, and quickly go AWOL in order 
 to recover it. The gold belongs to a villain called The Legionnaire, who pays his band of mercs 
 in the form of solid gold bars. The main characters kill one of the mercs in a fire-fight, discover 
 the gold on his body, and then are off on their less than hilarious misadventure. 
  
  Truth be told, there are a couple of moments here and there that might make you giggle, but the 
 characters in this game are so shallow that it's genuinely difficult to feel much more than slight 
 irritation at the repeated attempts to be funny. Though I appreciate DICE's attempts to make something 
 more than just another dramatic shooter, when every conversation has some catchy zinger thrown 
 into it, the humor begins to feel more forced than funny. 
  
  THE DELICATE SOUNDS OF THUNDER
  
  Though the "look at how funny we are" moments begin to wear 
 thin almost immediately, at least the lines are carried by a group of fairly solid voice actors. 
 Don't expect Oscar caliber performances, but for the most part this quartet knows how to sing. 
 As a whole, the lines are delivered well, even if some of those lines will make you cringe.
  
  Beyond that, however, you are in for an audio treat. The guns and explosions that inevitably 
 follow the firing of said guns are extremely well done. This game has the potential to get very, 
 very loud, and the chaotic ring of battle is a lot of fun to endure. Crumbling walls and fences 
 sound spot-on, the volume of weapons fire makes each weapon a joy to shoot, and the sound of dust 
 settling after an explosion is a great touch. 
  
  The only other place that BF sags in terms of sound would be in the scoring. Though there are a 
 few tracks that heighten the experience, for the most part expect forgettable tunes. This includes 
 the rather odd but interesting music you'll hear while driving.
  
  EYES ON
  
  BF: BC is something of a visual treat. Though it won't dethrone Gears or Killzone 2 in terms of 
 aesthetics, character models are highly detailed, right down to the fibers that their uniforms 
 are made of. The weapons have a nice look to them, which is a definite plus seeing as how you'll 
 be spending a great deal of time looking down them at approaching enemies. 
  
  Where this title suffers some is in the environments. Apparently, you have been transported to 
 a magical land where no one believes in furniture. Every house is depressingly vacant, and therefore 
 bland. This blandness then creeps out into the surrounding environment. Though there are a few 
 environmental gems (a courtyard here or a small city there) , most of what you will see are long 
 stretches of green and brown. 
  
  That's not to say its all bad. There are usually a large number of trees in any given area, each 
 of which can be destroyed at the player's leisure. Knocking down an entire forest with artillery 
 or tank shells is a lot of fun, though it tends to make the battlefield a little more drab after. 
 And blasting gigantic holes into the side of a building so that you can get at the foe within makes 
 you wonder why destructible environments aren't used more often in shooters. 
  
  CALL OF DUTY TOO
  
  After they've finished with the single player campaign, online aficionados 
 will definitely want to check out the online offerings of this game. Though it rips a page straight 
 out of COD's play book, ranking system and all, it's still a varied and entertaining experience. 
 
  
  Finding a match is a breeze (though you'll have to download the Conquest mode in order to play 
 it) . Once the match has begun, simply select your class, and drop into the mix. Demo, Assault, 
 Support, and a couple of other classes give players the opportunity to express their own play styles 
 or attempt to try something new (we can't all be snipers, kiddies. )
  
  As of now, only two modes are available, Gold Rush and Conquest. Both are fairly simple in execution. 
 In Gold Rush, the two teams are spit into Attackers and Defenders. The objectives: Attackers attempt 
 to destroy the enemy's gold crates. If they succeed, the Defenders then most relocate to a new 
 base via shifting spawn points. All of this makes for a surprisingly fluid and varied experience. 
 
  
  Conquest is about as simple as it gets. Capture the control point, hold the control point to score. 
 Most matches shift back and forth in terms of who has the most points, and, again, this makes for 
 a match that is constantly changing. Though BF may not win any points for originality, it can be 
 said that online play is chaotic, loud, and fun, and that's what counts. 
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  Overall, BF: BC is worth playing. The single player campaign is satisfying for the most part, 
 and the online play is a blast. Yes, this title has a few issues that hold it back from being more 
 than it could be, but it offers enough strength to outweigh the weaknesses. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay its not really good but its not any where near bad. It's just okay. I mean it still 
 has its fun moments and can make you laugh every now and then its a good game in its own ways. Its 
 not call of duty or anything like that so if your expecting something like medal of honer or gears 
 of war then you might want to just rent this game first i bought it used because it was pretty 
 cheap. I wasnt planning on getting this game either i only got it because i had some money left 
 over so i decided what the heck i'll get it. But its not a bad game it can keep you entertained 
 for a pretty good while. My only real complaint about this game is its online multiplayer and not 
 two player for your regular system. But other than that its a pretty solid game and i recommend 
 to people who like war games but dont expect a call of duty game because its definatly not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game honestly is one of the most unique of the Battle field series its unique cause it actually 
 has a decent length single player story and of course it has the typical fast paced and brutal 
 multiplayer and a new element which is everything can be destroyed 
  
  I am going to review both the multiplayer and single player
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  
  The game play is typical run and gun only hold 2 weapons type of thing... yet the game feels fresh 
 because everything is destructible you want to make a hole in that house? throw a grenade want 
 to storm a house but a wall is in the way? use a grenade tube attached to ur M16 and make an opening 
 
  
  yet for a battle field game it has a semi-strong story... the story is you just got transferred 
 to B-company (Bad company) they are the 1st ones into a battle because they are highly expendable 
 they are the soldiers that are in serious trouble basically the fodder but they never once say 
 why you are in Bad company all you ever hear is "for what I have done I should be in Jail" and 
 you and your company are after gold that u found from dead mercenaries that were suppose to be 
 just a legend 
  
  The game takes you many places from a Russian farm area to the middle east and you can drive a 
 decent amount of vehicles from light tanks, buggies, heavy tanks and helicopters also the levels 
 can be replayed and there are some unlockables hidden in the massive levels 
  
  The one problem I have with the single player is there is no challenge when u die you come right 
 back alive at a spawn point if u ever played "the outfit" its the same idea there are sometimes 
 when the fight gets too tough but you can't really complain because you come right back alive maybe 
 15 feet away from the battle also sometimes the maps u fight on are too big for a single player 
 level so if u don't have a vehicle prepare for a long boring walk also the A. I of ur team mates 
 are pretty bad 
  
  
  Audio:
  
  The audio for a FPS game is amazing when your inside a house your gun sounds very loud if u are 
 getting shot at from a distance the guns sound very very realistic you can tell that they put a 
 lot of effort into the game 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics honestly aren't that bad at all they look very good and the holes that you make in 
 houses are very nice looking the fires, smoke, and exhaust from tanks and cars are very nice looking 
 the only complaint that I have is like the Gamespot reviewer said was it does have too much of 
 a "grainy" look to them especially things from a distance 
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  *NOTE* both the audio and visuals are exactly the same in both the multi and single player
  
 
  
  The multiplayer is very epic it has 12 vs 12 and there are only 2 modes yet the modes will keep 
 you playing over and over again plus there is no lobby you jump straight into the action also there 
 is a cool function called a squad...4 ppl can be in a squad and if ur dead u can spawn next to 
 them only if they are alive and if u and ur friends want to play u can invite them to ur squad 
 before the game starts and if U don't want ur friends playing or have no friends you automatically 
 join a random squad... but don't worry you don't have to stick to ur squad 
  
  the first mode is gold rush... gold rush is a map that is basically attackers vs. defenders the 
 attackers have a limited number of spawns (while the defenders have unlimited) and they have to 
 attack gold crates and when they destroy them they get more spawns and a new spawn point (there 
 is like 8 gold crates and the attackers have to destroy them 2 at a time then the top of the map 
 opens up and usually the attackers get the spawn where the destroyed crates are)
  
  the second mode (and more famous) is the Conquest mode (which u have to download for free with 4 
 maps it is not with the original game) the conquest mode is what every battle field fans love long 
 story short there is 2 teams and both have a certain number of spawns before they lose there is 
 X number of spawn points that both teams have to capture once captured you can spawn there and 
 if u own more than half of the spawn points the enemy spawn limit goes down the only way that can 
 stop is that the other team captures more spawn points until one team's spawn counter is at zero 
 
  
  the multiplayer is fun there is unlocks like new weapons and there are classes that each have their 
 own perk (like assault is the basic solider, while the specialist is a solider with a silencer 
 that can't be seen on the map) also there are unlocks for each class also the destructible environments 
 are great for mulitplayer you always have to move and it basically prevents anyone from camping 
 a area for too long also there is something else that is cool if you knife someone you get their 
 dog tag which is basically their gamer tag and u can look at the dog tags u own after the round 
 it gets addictive 
  
  yet the multiplayer isn't perfect there is some problems the 1st and most notable is sometimes 
 the maps u play on are too big for 12 vs. 12 if sometimes you don't have a vehicle to drive in 
 prepare for long walks.. which leads to my next problem the main problem is the snipers are wayy 
 to powerful trust me the snipers are a big problem on the maps where there is all open ground 
 
  
  also there is sometimes a bad case of spawn camping there is some maps where it is too easy to 
 get to the enemies spawn point
  
  also the last problem is that conquest mode isn't as fun as previous installments the conquest 
 mode gets boring fast there is no sense of pressure because the spawn points are too far away from 
 each other also it takes awhile to get to a battle because once again the maps are too big 
  
  
  PROS
  the single player game is fun in some spots, the destructible environments are 
 really fun and bring a new sense of danger to the game, the gold rush modes are great, the audio 
 is great, the game is 20 bucks, 12 vs 12 is very fun, the knife then get a dog tag concept is fun 
 
  
  
  CONS
  no sense of challenge for the single player, some unlocks are horrible, snipers reign supreme on 
 certain maps, spawn camping can be easily done, the "grainy" look can be better, some unlocks should 
 already come with the class, some maps are too big to enjoy, some maps have too much open field, 
 vehicles can sometimes be rendered useless against some unlockable items
  
  
  In closing the game is just pure fun if you don't have xboxlive or the PSN they I don't recommend 
 this game the single player honestly is nothing special yet if u do have a internet connection 
 then get this game its pretty fun and realistic and you will get addicted to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield has been EA's pride and joy for many years with many successful games on the PC with 
 battlefield 1942, vietnam, and battlefield 2 and now after battlefield 2 modern combat has lost 
 most of its spark EA brings battlefield bad company the first game in the series with a single 
 player story driven campaign.
  
  Gameplay: At its core bad company is an FPS, but the main difference is that its powered by the 
 frostbite engine and for those that do not know what the difference is it allows you to destroy 
 up to 92% of the scenery and believe me it is fun, can't find the door way? that grenade launcher 
 on the end of your gun is your skeleton key. The story is also another big change for the series 
 following a group of soldiers after they go AWOL to go steal a mercenary groups gold, i wont delve 
 too much into that becasue that would be ruining the great fun, its a great excuse to go on a rampgae 
 of total destruction and the story is actually very good so thats another bonus it will take you 
 about 8-10 hours on the normal difficulty which i strongly recommend. Graphically it generally 
 looks great smooth animations and textures but sometimes it can look quite grainy but thats about 
 it, the sceneray also looks great either when its in one or one thousand pieces. 
  
  Audio: This is the best highlight for bad company many people do not appreciate audio but the frostbite 
 engine is sublime, all the weapons sound perfect the same goes for the music, explosions, voice 
 acting and generally everything. The best part is how it prioritizes sounds over one another for 
 example if you were listening to a radio and then an explosion went off near you you would only 
 just be able to hear which is unique and makes bad comapny even better.
  
  Multiplayer: Admittedly i have had little experience here but i have played a couple of times and 
 gold rush was extremely fun where one team attacks and the other defends, the defenders protect 
 their gold crates while the attackers have to destroy them this also makes bad company a worthwhile 
 purchase.
  
  Conclusion: Bad company is a great game is is a must buy for anyone who loves FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze93najam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Long waited but worth it. EA DICE didn't disappoint the gamers. great for a starter and a heck of 
 a ride for a pro. this game features great storyline and a decent range of collectible weaponry 
 weapons range from high firing rifles to skull breaking snipers. Good graphics and heart pounding 
 game-play fit for an FPS. This game introduces Four guys marlow (the main protagonist) , Haggard, sweet 
 water and RedFord. They are desperate for transfer away from bad company and are the ones to who 
 do most of the work in their area. Set in the near future, a war has been started between the US 
 and Russia. We are mainly ordered to destroy enemy radios devices and missile launchers. they go 
 to AWOL unconcerned about the risks on a mission for revenge and gold. Our comrades don't die and 
 it's hard for then to kill us because we are having a medicine type object that fills our health, so 
 we can go out of cover and fire. Not much of a challenge for serious gamers but fun playing. Great 
 for FPS lovers because it's different for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company has redefined military shooters in my opinion. It's the next big thing 
 in FPS games. This game is awesome! These are the categories that I will use to rate this game.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: This gameplay is no run of the mill FPS. First of all, it is non-linear (it's basically 
 open world) so you can explore the area and collect hidden weapons, instead of regenerating health 
 or med packs you get a needle full of morphine that you stab into your chest, and the best part 
 is the destructable enviroments. The FROSTBITE engine pushes the destructability to the max, in 
 fact if you have a tank or an artillery strike then you can basically destroy a whole town! It's 
 the best and most realistic destructability that i've ever seen. Great multiplayer too. It's the 
 best multiplayer of 2008 in my opinion.
  
  Graphics: The FROSTBITE engine makes the graphics breath taking. Every character model and open 
 vista looks triple-A. The graphics rock.
  
  Sound: Some of the most realistic sounds in a game i've ever heard. Bullets fired inside of a room 
 will sound different than they will outside. Voice acting is great.
  
  Story: The game takes place in a wartorn Russia set in the near future. You are Preston Marlow, 
 a new recruit for Bad Company, a military unit consisting of the most rejected and worst soldiers 
 of the U. S. Army. He was sent to Bad Company after taking a U. S. helicopter for a joy ride while 
 stationed in Europe (hints to a world war maybe?) . The story is very good.
  
  
  The game is so good that i'm giving it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j_skin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is one of my favourite games of 08'. Its campaign is perfectly balanced 
 with many, many of hours of gameplay (Do not buy this game if you wish to complete campaign on 
 the first day!) 
  The realistic, action genre with a hint of comedy is brilliant as you trek through multiple environments 
 with your team of... average men 'Bad Company'
  The scenery and audio in this game is absolutely incredible, which makes you feel like your in 
 an actual war zone. 
  
  Multiplayer is definitely underrated! I would even compare Bad Company's multiplayer experience 
 with Call of Duty 4. Although the ranking system could be made a little bit harder, the Gold Rush 
 scenario never gets dull. Assault, Demolition, Recon, Support, Specialist and a wide variety of 
 vehicles including helicopters, heavy and light tanks, humvee's, boats and much more insures that 
 there is a multiplayer game for everyone!
  
  I definitely recommend buying this game if you have enjoyed and of the previous Battlefild games 
 or Call of Duty's. Your money will not be wasted!
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homicidal_Sloth
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would just like to say that I have NOT played the online multiplayer for this game, 
 it might even be amazing but this review is based 100% on the single player campaign. Also, my 
 expectations weren't too high when buying this game either, so consider that as well. 
  
  Let's start off with the good things. The graphics are pretty good, with nice textures and character 
 models and especially amazing explosions. That's probably the best part of the game, the explosions. 
 Anyway, as I was saying. The graphics are okay, but everything just seems very bland. The environments 
 almost always look similar, and things just aren't very colourful. You'll be seeing a lot of beige. 
 The story is okay, and is a little interesting. But it get's kind of silly at one point, with things 
 just seeing a little thrown into place at the last minute. The gunplay is also pretty good, Call 
 of Duty style with the Iron Sights. Except that you have a healthbar, and don't always carry grenades 
 around.
  
  So, basically that was the good about the game. Now the bad. Let's start out with the thing that 
 basically ruins the game; the AI. Oh God, fighting the AI is absolutely terrifying. No matter what, 
 they know where you are. You can't hide in this game, they're always after you. I recall one situation 
 where I was hiding very well behind a bush and some trees to snipe a guard with a small sniper 
 rifle. I killed him and then ALL of the AI instantly turn to me and start shooting with no mercy. 
 How could they see me at all? Why were they even wasting their ammo if they couldn't see me? Those 
 would be the things we would consider, but no, not them. They KNOW where you are. I even remember 
 a time where they were shooting me from 100 metres away with freaking submachine guns! WHAT? 
 
  
  Now for the rest of the bad things... Your healthbar... God, they should've just used the CoD formula, 
 where you don't have health. Instead, you have a healthbar, but you have a needle which you can 
 stick into yourself to heal you instantly! Too bad you have to wait to use it. This is generally 
 how gunfights work, since the AI are so strong. *takes out gun and starts shooting AI* *AI starts 
 shooting back doing a ton of damage* *run to cover and heal* *get out of cover with gun* *don't 
 have enough time to shoot because they instantly see me and start shooting* *I die* the end. What... 
 The... Heck... The easiest way to kill enemies is to just run in shooting randomly, or just get 
 inside a vehicle. 
  
  The missions are repetitive and take forever, with you just going forward to checkpoints killing 
 enemies. Somtimes you'll have a different objective, like driving a helicopter or using artillary, 
 but that's not too common. There's also your crappy teammates, which don't shoot and never get 
 shot at. All they do is give you company. Hooray. 
  
  Anyway, all in all I gave this game a 6.5 because it's not terrible, and it could be worse. The 
 explosions are cool, and there are some interesting weapons but that's about it. Maybe my opinion 
 will change when I'm actually able to play the multiplayer, but if you're in it for the campaign 
 only, then don't even bother.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited to play this game because I was expecting it to have 'Call Of Duty' standards. 
 It, however, did not. The story was un-interesting, the vehicles were boring to drive and the weapons 
 felt a little un-balanced. Sure, blowing up buildings and searching them made you feel like a BA, 
 but for how long? For me, about a couple hours. I noticed the buildings were the same, everything 
 got destroyed the same, the enemies looked and acted the same and all the weapons I found were 
 the same. See a pattern here? It was extremely repetitive in all shape and form. You find your 
 self doing pretty much the same thing over and over again and all I wanted was for the game to 
 BE over. But, after a few repetitive missions, it still wasn't over so I sent it back to Gamefly, 
 never to be rented by me again.
  
  There was some good things (mostly bad though) and i'll list the good and bad below.
  
  The 
 Good
  
  - Pretty graphics and explosions
  - Story is kind of funny
  - Weapons feel a little cool to use
  - Blowing up walls was probably the best part of this game
 
  - Online was decent
  
  The Bad
  
  - Repetitive
  - Maps were too big in single player
  - Not enough weapons and weapon balance
  - Vehicles felt 
 awkward to drive and handle
  - Boring storyline
  - Underwhelming overall
  
  This game is decent fun and will probably satisfy a FPS lover with fairly low standards, but I 
 like FPS games like Killzone, COD, RS: Vegas, Mirrors Edge, 007, Timesplitters, etc.
  
  Compared to all of those franchises, it just did not measure up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbug
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  It could be the Diet Coke next to the much meatier Call Of Duty series. The first thing you'll 
 notice about Bad Company is that you don't really die, not in the traditional video game sense. 
 This is because the game's checkpoint system is structured so that if you die, you respawn at the 
 last checkpoint but lose none of your pregress, which means no baddies will respawn. Make sense? 
 It will after about ten minutes of gameplay on the harder difficulties. And you'll soon decide 
 that this checkpoint system is really for the best, because you won't last five seconds in open 
 combat without taking a shot and needing to take cover and replenish your health with the adrenaline 
 shot. Sent to Bad Company with three other dregs of the military, you play the role of ridiculously 
 named Preston Marlowe, and you soon learn that your prerogative is not to save the world, but steal 
 some gold. It riffs on movies like 'Kelly's Heroes' and 'Three Kings', and it's a nice and unique 
 take on the somewhat tired war shooter genre (at least in the sense that nearly everything has 
 been tried to date) . The guns are good, but the aiming system is a little off. Cover is a necessity 
 - there'll be no mad dashes to take a checkpoint: in fact you're much better off picking off the 
 bad guys from a distance than charging in like a gung ho war junkie. This is where one of the game's 
 more unique and fun weapons comes into play: the laser designator. Target it at an enemy tank and 
 you'll rain down a barrage of missile fire on them. The first time I used this it left a huge grin 
 on my face. It is fun. So fun, you'll keep doing it until you think it might be possible to break 
 the game. Luckily EA DICE have made this ability available only in certain sections of the game, 
 but when you're given free-reign with your own laser designator, you'll have yourself some fun. 
 Which is just as well, because taking out a tank without one is next to impossible. Charging up 
 to one to plant some explosives on it can sometimes be an exercise in futility. The other guys 
 in your squad - a Squad Leader, a Technical and Communications Specialist, and an Explosives "Expert" 
 - won't die in combat. They make wisecracks that usually fall flat. The baddies are caricatures. 
 Surf-guitar music plays in tanks when you commandeer one. Game [play is challenging, but never intense. 
 On the plus side, finding gold crates is a rush, and you never feel like your mission is unachievable. 
 Backed up by a solid multiplayer mode called 'Gold Rush', Battlefield Bad Company doesn't lack 
 polish, but it refuses to push the boundaries of the FPS genre, and it just feels a bit silly at 
 times. That can be a good thing depending on your mood, however.
  
  (jtbug doesn't review games unless he has finished them) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheapshot72493
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is AMAZING! Let's start with the single player the single player campaign 
 has about 8 missions and they are all not that hard even on hard. The campaign consists of 4 main 
 characters who's funny one liners and character make you laugh and they grow on you so much throughout 
 the campaign. In the campaign you operate any vehicle known to man choppers, transport trucks, golf 
 carts, boats, tanks, hum vees, and you get to use cool things like Anti aircraft turrets and mortars 
 as well. Also there is about 55 weapons and gadgets that you get to use in the single player and 
 multiplayer. Also most of the achievments are for the single player but about 25% of them are for 
 the multiplayer. The story line for this game is great funny yet serious at one point your character 
 is listening to a squadmate talk about how nice you smell then the next you know you 4 guys are 
 trying fight 100 top-of-the-line mercenaires. The multiplayer only has 2 cons to it the first is 
 that there are only 2 available gametypes the second is that it takes a little while before you 
 can find yourself "powning noobs". Other than that the multiplayer consists of all the cool weapons, gadgets 
 and vehicles that the single player does with more. A lot of people play the game still so you 
 wont find yourself in matchmaking for 10 minutes before you can find a game. The online ranking 
 system consists of 25 ranks which get harder and harder to rank up as you get to higher ranks. 
 The graphics are a 9.0 out of 10 easily and the achievements aren't that hard you can get an easy 
 650 to 800 points in a couple weeks if you beat the single player. 2 cool features to the online 
 play are having up to 12 on 12 and the "dog tags" which you collect everytime you knife an opponent 
 you pick up his dog tags you game keeps record of how many and what other gamer they belong to. 
 If you can spare 30 bucks and are into a strong multiplayer modern warfare game then go out and 
 buy battlefield it will take you at least a month to get to the top rank if you play .alot so you 
 will get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  The trouble with telling us that we can demolish everything is that we'll try to. And if everything 
 turns out to mean this wall but not that wall over there, it's the latter that leaves an impression. 
 Unlike other shooters to make similar claims, Bad Company isn't enticing shoppers into a store, 
 so to speak, with a sign that says "All items half off" but that actually means only one in a dozen 
 are discounted. The technology has its limits, but while Bad Company as an absolutely breakable 
 world isn't literal, it usually seems so... as long as you're using high explosives. Let me split 
 hairs: With a thumping sound and sudden cloud of dust, grenades erase whole sections of houses. 
 Bullets, however, stop dead in the thinnest wood slat. But what Bad Company needs isn't a trip 
 to a real-life firing range -- it's its inflexible A. I. that requires the lessons.
  
  If Bad Company's crackshot mercs (21st-century leprechauns whose gold the gamer and his trio of 
 misfit American allies want to appropriate) reacted to their ever-changing battlefield, the game 
 could squash all charges of gimmickry. Again, this is the difference between noteworthy items for 
 the backs of retail boxes and fully realized, defining features; the difference between an opponent 
 who believably runs through holes blown through a farmhouse and one who needn't ever move because 
 he knows -- and always will know -- both where you are and that he'll hit you with every bullet 
 he fires. More sentry gun than soldier, unsurprising and incapable of being surprised, Bad Company's 
 bad guys leech the fun from one firefight after another. In a game of this less-linear, slightly 
 scripted make and model, behavior matters most. The solution? Online opponents.
  
  When raspy- and robotic-sounding players on Xbox Live hear inbound artillery, they know to get 
 to a house's bottom floors before the roof is blasted off and anything beneath it is blown away. 
 Henpecked by sharpshooting, they deforest a sniper's blind; cornered, they demolish a back wall 
 and beat their retreat. Developer DICE dodges the trap it's laid for itself (i. e., games devolving 
 into grenade-launcher duels) by reducing splash damage. Unless it detonates in his face, a single 
 explosive shell stands a greater chance of dazing an enemy than killing him outright -- one smart 
 move among the many (such as inspired map design) that make Bad Company a very good multiplayer 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  --------------------------------
  Gameplay: A-
  Storyline: B+
  Sound: A-
  Graphics: A
  Replay Value: High
  --------------------------------
  
  Battlefield Bad Company 
 is an excellent game, the graphics are good, the storyline it good, and the characters in the game 
 are funny. You will probably be laughing your butt off. The interesting thing about Bad Company 
 is that basically everything is destructible, so nowhere is safe anymore.
  
  In Bad Company you play as Preston Marlowe, a new person to B-Company and slow you gain friendship 
 with some of the member of B-Company like Sarge, Sweetwater and Haggard. B-Company is a mismatched 
 bunch of rejects selected to serve their country as cannon fodders.
  
  Bad Company features an all new, objective-based multiplayer game mode known as Gold Rush, which 
 supports 24 players online. Play as either an attacker or defender. The main objective of the attacker 
 is to destroy gold crates, and by destroying two gold crates your team moves on to next level. 
 The objective of the defender is to protect bases that house the gold crates and take down all 
 of the attackers.
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  Recommend?
  -Yes!
  -------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perezarturo71
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company's campaign isnt that great but online play makes up for it. If you dont have xbox live 
 you shouldnt play this game. If you do thats great. This game doesnt offer a lot of game modes but 
 the gameplay in battlefield is great. Blowing up buildings is very satisfying and the fact that 
 u can use vehiclesw as well as helicopters and tanks is pretty awesome. The campaign in Battlefield 
 is ok but because there is no split screen on the game makes it kinda hard to follow. The graphics 
 on bbc are great and very real. the sound is fantastic and the weapons are really cool. snipers dont 
 really look that far so the snipers are dissapointing. the controls feel right at home so dont get 
 mad at this game for having wonky controls. DICE has really made a great game in battlefield bad 
 company and they are planning on making a sequel. But for now settle on bbc. Itis relly a good game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, Bad Company looks much like any other generic shooter. Looking deeper, you will 
 see that enough detail was put into every aspect to make it stand out from the crowd. The game 
 is impressive on nearly every front: graphics, gameplay, story, and so much more.
  
  While the basic gameplay isn't that much different than other first person shooters, what makes 
 this game stand out is the destructible environments. Every single building in the game can be 
 completely destroyed, except for the floors and stairs. This includes the walls, roof, all furniture, 
 and doorways. I cannot fully explain how entertaining it is to fire a grenade at a well hidden 
 enemy inside a building and see nothing but a massive hole in the wall where they were hiding once 
 the smoke clears. It also makes the tank and helicopter fights completely different than in other 
 games since you can't hide behind the same wall and pop out when you have the chance. You are forced 
 to stay on the move and hope you can take the enemy out before they destroy all the cover in the 
 area. All the possible destruction made me flash an evil grin when I saw that the last mission 
 takes place in a fairly sizable town with more buildings than I have ever seen in one level. The 
 destruction doesn't just apply to buildings, either. Blow up a wall of sandbags and you can watch 
 them fly through the air. Fire enough bullets into a tree and it will fall over (a vehicle mounted 
 machine gun can clear a forest) . Explosions even leave holes in the ground that can be used to 
 slow vehicles or as a makeshift hiding spot. Bad Company has the highest level of destruction that 
 I can ever remember seeing in a game.
  
  There are a vast number of weapons to use in the game. So many that they actually double as the 
 games hidden packages. Weapons are scattered around the maps and the more powerful ones are hidden 
 better than the weaker ones. On the title screen, there is a menu option that shows you which guns 
 you have found and which you have yet to discover as well as each ones rarity. Even though each 
 one handles differently, none are too easy to use. I mean this in a good way, though, because it 
 makes you feel like you earned each kill. I did think the explosive weapons were a bit under-powered. 
 Many times it felt like if the enemy wasn't a couple of feet from a grenade, they wouldn't take 
 much damage.
  
  While most war games have boring or non-existent storylines, this game's plot is one of it's strongest 
 points. In the beginning, you are transferred to B Company (aka Bad Company) , which is where the 
 Army sticks it's misfits that it doesn't care about anymore. After the first mission, your squad 
 runs across a mercenary group that is rumored to pay it's soldiers in gold bars. After about two 
 and a half seconds of moral dilemma, your squad decides to go after the gold. What follows is a 
 chase across a couple of countries that has the squad fighting mercenaries, helping an exiled dictator, 
 and maybe a tiny bit of treason. Every character has memorable and entertaining personalities and 
 every cutscene is hilarious. Everything is explained about each person through the course of the 
 game except your character, which I thought was odd. The game opens with him saying that he could 
 have been thrown in jail for what he did, but they transferred him to B Company instead. This is 
 that last that is mentioned about it and left me wanting to know more. Outside of this, the rest 
 of the story is, by far, the best narrative I have ever seen in a war game.
  
  Unfortunately, there are three big problems I have with the game that prevent it from being an 
 instant classic. First is it's length. Although it is longer than Call of Duty 4, it can still 
 be completed in around 7 hours. I have always felt that an action game should be at least ten hours 
 long for me to feel as if I am getting my money's worth out of it. Three difficulties and hidden 
 collectibles help the replay value, but I still feel it is too short. Second is the fact that you 
 pretty much can't lose. Similar to BioShock, you are respawned nearby when you die and all the 
 enemies that you killed before your death are still gone. This takes the feeling of danger away 
 when you know that you aren't really making progress by staying alive longer. I actually won a 
 battle against a tank by throwing a grenade, dying, throwing another grenade, dying, throwing another 
 grenade, and the last blew the tank up. Occasionally, there is a mission objective that must be 
 accomplished and if you fail, you must restart at a checkpoint, but most of the game has no penalty 
 for death. The final problem is that there is only one multiplayer game mode. It is a fun mode 
 that is a twist on the 'attack or defend' games, but the Battlefield series is know for it's online 
 and only having one choice is lame. Another mode is added with a free update, but shipping the 
 game with only one iswell, very typical of EA, actually.
  
  Graphically, the game looks amazing. The character models may be just a step behind the likes of 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas 2, but there is one addition that makes this game stand out: dust. There is 
 dust or fog in the air all the time. Explosions throw debris that takes a few seconds to clear. 
 Helicopters kick up dirt when they are low enough to the ground. Many games have better graphics 
 but are so spotless that they don't look real. This one thing makes Bad Company look like the most 
 realistic FPS I have ever played.
  
  Just about everything was done right in this game and the end result is some of the most fun FPS 
 action I have had in a long time. I would go as far as to say I liked it more than Call of Duty 
 4. This outstanding game more than makes up for EA's last botched war game attempt that I played; 
 Medal of Honor: Airborne. If you are a single player or multiplayer fan, you can't go wrong here.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nojoble
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  Well, to start things off, you are Preston Marlowe, and you have just been moved to Bad Company, 
 which isn't exactly a good thing if you know what I'm saying. In this game, you do everything as 
 small as destroying 88 guns to something as large as starting a war with a neutral country. That's 
 a big thing to do for a company of four. The graphics are phenomenal, considering I just switched 
 from a PS2 to an Xbox 360. The graphics really help display the feel of the whole battlefield scenario. 
 Water looks like water, which is actually really good considering in most games they sort of cheat 
 with the water and make it all blurry and think no one will notice. I have nothing against the 
 sound, which is also fantastic. They made the guns sound perfect, along with the artillery. I think 
 it is amazing when you are about to die, you can hear that buzzing sound, which they made just 
 the right pitch. I personally love the multi-player, which is also a nice way to spend the day. 
 I wish they would make another type of multi-player for this game. The game play itself is really 
 good because of the way you don't really follow the orders of your Sergeant, they sort of follow 
 you. I really like the way you have a sort of adrenaline shot and that is how you are healed. All 
 in all, this is a great game to start my Xbox career with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnugent488
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I got this game sometime in the early summer and played it for 3 months. When you are trying to 
 take a contested flag in conquest mode it feels like a legitimate battlefield. Everything blows 
 up, everything. You shoot someone and they die, and if they don't die they don't duck behind a 
 wall and heal up in three seconds, they either run away or get killed seconds later when the final 
 shot is made. The combat graphics are good but the repetitive building models and variety of doodads 
 are two big trouble spots graphics wise. The characters are well done, though I wish ragdoll physics 
 could be upgraded as far as large caliber bullets and explosions are concerned, if Fallout 3 could 
 do it there's no reason taking a direct hit from a rpg should leave the body intact. Like all Battlefield 
 games you can drive a variety of vehicles, including attack helicopters. And like in all Battlefield 
 games only the very experienced can drive them effectively (something I always liked as it put 
 the noobs in their place) . Probably my favorite game of 2008, a game any serious war gamer can 
 appreciate and I was so disappointed that it received no mention in the best of 2008. A very good 
 upgrade and console port of the Battlefield series. Can't wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adortado
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I really like dis game this game is very addictive i mean wat more can u ask for jsu an overally 
 great game! im addicted lol and u cant beat that price of the game either so yea this is a must 
 have game if u like shooting and it's a funny act by the characters it's gets u laughing! i will 
 admit it's hard at first but once u get good at it it's pretty smooth from their, and it's a big 
 plus from EA i have 2 give them their props on this game they really put their blood, sweat and 
 tears in this 1 lol! so yea ill gove thsi game a perfect 10! XboxLive Gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! XboxLive 
 Gamertag: DNiCEXboxLive Gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME!27406 ADD ME! XboxLive Gamertag: DNiCE27406 
 ADD ME! XboxLive Gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! XboxLive Gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! XboxLive Gamertag: 
 DNiCE27406 ADD MEXboxLive Gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME!! XboxLive GamertaXboxLive Gamertag: DNiCE27406 
 ADD ME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macheteman99
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  i haven't even played multiplayer except for one time, and that's because, the campaign is just 
 so good! this game allows you to do a lot more than just shoot Russians, it allows you to guide 
 an airstrike to a tank to blow it up. this game also brings hilarity to the equation, never in 
 all my years of playing games have i laughed so much as i did during this game. you will get attached 
 to the people in your squad because they all have their unique attributes. great weapons and firepower, 
 and the environments are all indestructible and it makes for quite the experience. this isn't your 
 average shooter, it is much much more and should be enjoyed by everyone. things never get old in 
 this game, except for the regrouping at the smoke, but it is still great. u can drive great vehicles, 
 and there is just a lot of fun things to do. this game is not for everyone, but is for majority 
 of the people i would say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ISargin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:06 am PT
Review:  Bad company was picked up around christmas at the hatboro blockbuster for 30$
  
  and man im glad i bought it.
  
  the destructible environments are awesome , and the campaign 
 has alot of humor to it
  
  you play as a man who got jailed for something were not really sure of , but the government sent 
 him to a war squad full of more jailies to fight as a free squad and in return make their term 
 longer.
  
  The rather odd group winds up in a wild gold chase. and some crazy stuff happens along the way 
 .
  
  the campaign is just under 9 hours , which somewhat short , but it wouldnt make sense to make it 
 any longer.
  
  a distinct part about this game is the destructible environments. 
  
  the multiplayer sounds awesome from a voice or tutorial movie . not executed as well as you would 
 think
  
  the objective is gold rush. one team attacks for gold and one team defends.
  
  the maps are too big though. everyone winds up in tanks too , which is kind of annoying.
  
 
  but all in all bad company is totally worth your money , its a game you gotta pick up
  
  
  Game Rating: 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grubes26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Just completed the game on single player campaign and I was a little disappointed with all the 
 little clips that kept coming up, but that was the only downside to it all. Everything else was 
 great, storyline and all the outbursts, especially by Haggard, lol, funny ****. The ability to 
 drive any vehicle that you come up to is a great addition to the game and it makes the multiplayer 
 a lot more interesting to play. Plenty of weapons to choose from make it almost impossible to decide 
 which one you want to pick up to walk around with, because there are times that you picked one 
 up and dropped another and the one you drop is the one that would fit the situation better, haha, 
 but that's what makes the game exciting to play! I currently don't have Xbox Live but have watched 
 a buddy of mine play it online and it looks great, can't wait til i get set up online with this 
 game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is the first Battlefield game I ever played. The past Battlefield games 
 focused on multiplayer and since I'm primarily a single-player only the games didn't hold much 
 interest. However a couple of weeks ago the game was on sale for $20 so I took the time to read 
 up a bit on it to see if there was any point in me trying this out and to my surprise I found that 
 this game had a solid single-player game that received favorable reviews. With the reduced price 
 I figured it was worth trying out.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9.0) - This is a military FPS in a modern environment where for the most part you'll 
 be fighting along with three fellow soldiers, though you'll find that usually you'll be the one 
 that takes care of most of the enemies. But that's OK, because it's loads of fun. The shooting 
 is very smooth and responsive. As you progress in the game you'll come across an amazing assortment 
 of weapons that all look, sound and feel very unique. Unfortunately you're limited to keeping only 
 one basic gun/grenade/grenade launcher combo, though of course that is a bit more realistic. You'll 
 need to accomplish a variety of objectives as you make your way through the campaign, and firefights 
 can get pretty intense on a battlefield that includes tanks, APCs and helicopters, machine gun 
 nests, RPGs, artillery, and more. The missions move along at a fast clip and there's literally 
 never a boring moment. The AI in the game puts up a decent fight as they'll take cover, keep moving, 
 take over a machine gun for a fallen comrade, etc., as well as knowing how to take advantage of 
 the game's destructible environments. It's these destructible environments that take this game 
 up to another level. Can't get into a building? Blow the door open. Enemies firing at you from 
 within a cottage? Blow a hole in the side of it and pick off the survivors. Trapped in a building 
 by enemies outside? Punch a hole in a back wall and make your escape. The possibilities are virtually 
 endless. 
  
  GRAPHICS (8.5) Considering what's involved the graphics are pretty decent. The character models 
 and environments look pretty solid, but it's the destruction that's really going to impress you. 
 Being able to nearly decimate almost every object in the environment adds a great element to the 
 game. Also of note is that in spite of all of the action going on I never noticed any frame rate 
 issues.
  
  SOUND (9.0) - The voice acting is good and while the comedy between your buddies can be pretty 
 corny it's still funny and gives some humanity to the soldiers, something that most military FPS 
 games lack. But more importantly, the sounds of battle are incredible. The deep bass of explosions 
 will challenge a subwoofer in ways that no 360 game has yet, and the rattle of your rifle giving 
 it all it's got is very satisfying. This is one of the few games that create a war zone just with 
 sound, something that even the most epic of war games don't always succeed at and rarely do as 
 well as this one does. If you've just bought a sound system and really want to stretch out its 
 capabilities with a new game, make it this one. 
  
  VALUE (9.0) - The single player game took somewhere between 12-15 hours, not bad at all for a FPS, 
 especially since you should be able to get this for a good price. Now even though I haven't taken 
 advantage of it yet the BF games are known for their multiplayer, so anyone that enjoys that type 
 of game will certainly be getting more then their money's worth.
  
  SUMMARY - Unlike many other military FPS this one actually has an intriguing story to go along 
 with it. This is not just a "go after the bad guys" deal. Right from the start it's unique in that 
 your character has messed up in the past so the Army has placed you with three other expendable 
 misfits, and before long you'll end up going in quite a different direction then what you anticipated. 
 This game was definitely one of the pleasant surprises of 2008 for me and I'm glad I took a chance 
 on a game I didn't know that much about. Obviously there's a glut of FPS games out there but this 
 one has enough unique and fun features that I'd definitely recommend it for any fans of the genre, 
 and this might be the type of game that could even win over non-fans as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  first off this game is incredible... The games graphics engine looks great in HD and the guns are 
 well designed and powerful... The game actually has a single player campaign with some unique voice 
 work and charming design... The multiplayer is addictive and features large scale battles... The 
 only flaws are that the games controls are not as tight as they should be and the game can be beaten 
 in under 10 hours... Other than that the explosions, voice acting, graphics, and design are excellent... You 
 can find this game now for under 30 dollars and at that price its a steal so go and pick this one 
 up and have a ball with it!!!! It will last you a while while you anticipate the new battlefield 
 game is arguable one of the best the series has to offer at the moment so at least has the decentcy 
 to play this game.... .. . . .. .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop36
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying this game cant be fairly compared to call of duty 4. The only similarities 
 they share are being military first person shooters. They are both great games, as far as variety 
 though Bad Company has it in the bag. heres the pros and cons:
  
  PROS:
  --great sound effects. The gunfire and explosions sound realistic on surround sound
  --funny 
 memorable characters and voice acting
  --the vehicles are all fun to use and handle well
  --good multiplayer 
  --destructable environments add another dimension to the game literally
 
  -- the game is kept pretty balanced in multiplayer
  --feels very realistic when you have alot of shooting going on around you
  
  CONS:
  --either 
 I suck, or it seems very difficult sometimes to kill people in multiplayer compared to call of 
 duty
  -- no parachutes
  -- your 4 person squad hardly ever stays together if at all in multi
  -- the enemies are a little 
 too good of marksmen
  --cant go prone, whether thats good or bad I cant decide
  
  This game is a refreshing change from most shooters Ive played. You feel like the guns are really 
 powerfull and sound believable. And the tanks and such are a blast to go causing mayhem in and 
 blow up buildings. The multiplayer takes a bit of skill but after awhile you find your niche and 
 it is very fun. i cant believe how underrated this game is. It is just as good as battlefield 1942 
 and COD 4
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcracker1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The online multiplayer is THE BEST. A few small problems I hope they fix on the next one are: Different 
 color camo on soldiers, sometimes in the speed of things its hard to tell whos who up close and 
 you end up knifing a team-mate. The shotgun is too powerful, well, not really, but if you get shot 
 in the foot by it, it shouldn't instantly kill you. The only thing I really hate is how I can be 
 emptying half a clip into someone, and they somehow have time to still run up to me and stab me. 
 However, this is minor is the whole of the multiplayer, its is so nearly a flawless game its flat 
 addictive. All the gadgets are really really fun. Tanks, hummers, jeeps, helicopters, its the best. 
 I thought Frontlines was the best until Bad Co came out. One thing they could do next time to really 
 up this game, is to have a map creator JUST LIKE the one on FARCRY 2. FARCRY 2 is ok on the multiplayer, 
 but if Battlefield had the awesome, easy to use, very powerful multiplayer map creator that FARCRY 
 has, it would be phenomenal! HEY EA, DO A MAP CREATOR NEXT TIME!!!!!!!!!!! THIS GAME SHOULD HAVE 
 WON AWARDS THIS YEAR!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Ah, war. The sound of RPGs going off and the dying screams of your enemies. There are two types 
 of warriors here. There are the elite soldiers who use quick strategies to blow the Russians to 
 Kingdom Come. They truly represent the pride of the U. S. Army. Then ... there are these guys. The 
 B-Company. These guys are the ones who usually screw over the whole squad. That's why they got 
 put here in Bad Company: The squad in which no one ever comes out alive. They're the guys who take 
 the bullets and protect the better soldiers. Preston Marlowe, the guy you're playing as, is the 
 newest member to the B-Company family. Along with the 3 Stooges of B-Company, Sweet Water, Haggard, 
 and Sarge, Preston sets out on tons of missions to prove that he's not the worst soldier fighting 
 in the Russian War.
  Bad Company is just like Call of Duty, but it's possibly better. You get three allies to help you 
 turn the Russians into Swiss cheese. They also provide some comic relief along the way. Being an 
 FPS freak, I naturally loved this game. You can get RPGs, C4, Knives, Grenades, and a horde of 
 Guns. They're all great weapons, but when you want reliability, you can't go wrong with the M4. 
 You can choose your difficulty, but only wimps play the Easy mode. Beginners should play Normal, 
 and if you're like me, you can raise hell in Hard. The gameplay itself is fantastic. You run around 
 shooting Russians, which is much more satisfying then it sounds. Almost all of the environment 
 in Bad Company is destructible. From trees to walls to your enemies, a little grenade can destroy 
 it all. Blowing up stuff is always included in a mission. After you finish a mission, you immediately 
 get another mission, which is the main flaw in this game. I mean, I know it's war, but I'd appreciate 
 some free time to appreciate the hilarious bickering between Sweetwater and Haggard. But Russians 
 always trying to blow you up does not make good grounds for relaxation time. Controlling tanks 
 has a great feel to it, and just stabbing your enemies with your knife is incredibly satisfying. 
 Bad Company, in words, is a great FPS. I can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screenhustla
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Online and off this game is just plain fun- destructable enviroments, tanks, boats, helos, large 
 maps... I mean what more could you ask for. I admit the campaign mode could have been a tad bit 
 better- I found myself doing a lot of walking; not that there wasn't an abundance of vehicles, 
 but they seemed to get destroyed very fast. I also wish that in the story mode they would have 
 dug a little deeper into the characters background. 
  
  Online is great- basically a giant Attack & Defend- every player at every postion plays a part. 
 Most people playing don't care about KDRs but only winning. This game IMHO is better than COD WaW 
 because it accually thanks skill and some sort of teamwork (even if no one uses their mics) . This 
 game is a bargain a for about $30 these days don't miss the opportunity to play a pretty good game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qmackay22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a nice refreshing break from the call of duty games which direct you in single player 
 to follow a certain path with not much freedom. In battlefield you have the whole land to yourself 
 and can attack from any direction with any thing you can find, including a wide variety of weapons, 
 vehicles, and explosives that really puts a lot of fun in this open style shooter. The environment 
 is only a factor in this game if you let it, feel free to take down trees, shelters and even houses 
 if your so inclined by using your usually attachable grenade launcher, calling mortar strikes, 
 or old fashioned grenades which will really take out the enemy's cover, or hop in a tank and watch 
 the bodys fly as you wreak havoc.. this game is really as hard or as easy as you want it to be, 
 and with the freedom of it you will usually find yourself face up if you dont plan your attack 
 and battles right.
  
  In conclusion this game has really grown on me with all its cool new weapons, and interesting storyline. 
 Although this game isnt quite as good or as popular as call of duty's. Its a nice break and for 
 the price you can find this game for now a days I highly encourage picking it up and having some 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The single player takes on a lot of new twists, some good, some bad, depending on your preferences. 
 The old BF was more order based, prior to going in on your mission. The new BFBC is more story 
 based, so if you like this, and the characters/voices, you will like the new stuff.
  
  However, just like the old BF, I think the real reason you want to play this game is for the multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer really offers you infinite possibilities in terms of refining your tactics and 
 strategies with various character types, vehicle play, weapon use, etc. Whether you are a sniper 
 or heavy machine gunner, or whether you like to charge up the hill, or go in with tanks and Apache 
 Helicopters, you have all the options at your disposal on great sized maps with lots of areas to 
 hide, ambush or just charge away toward your target. 
  
  Also, another new twist is in terms of communications - you can voice chat with your squad, but 
 not your "whole army" - this is good and bad, because if you are into the whole squad idea, it 
 really can make you more efficient and you get better awards by helping and reinforcing your squad. 
 So, if this is you and your clan, your in luck and will be awarded. If you like the ability to 
 communicate with others on your side, you are out of luck. This can be a bit frustrating when you 
 are right by someone on your team and there is no way to voice chat with them, especially when 
 they are doing something counter productive to what you are trying to accomplish.
  
  Overall, I think this and COD4 are the best shooters in the past 18 months. I'd highly recommend 
 this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokerjoe9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company the latest installment in dice and EA's long running FPS franchise.
  
  BBc is set in the modern day during a fictional war between the USA and Russia. You play as Preston 
 Marlo a private who has been transfered to Bad Company, a group of misfits and rejects. First you 
 have Sargeent Redford who is ment to retire one day after you get transfered, Stillwater who just 
 wanted to get on the GI bill and Haggard who likes to blow stuff up. Blowing stuff up is the key 
 mechanic in BBC and pretty much everything you can see can be blown to tiny little bits. this is 
 easy nearly every gun u can carry has some kind of grenade with it.
  
  Storywize the game is solid lots of good voice acting and a intresting storyline make it enjoyable 
 all of the way through. The graphics in the game are solid and even look ok on a normal none HD 
 tv. the sound is brilliant and sniper fire and the rattle of spent cartrgise htting the floor all 
 sounds very real. The multiplayer is now fully avalible and is a hell of allot of fun but not as 
 fun i would say as CoD4. the one thing that lets this game down would be the lack of splitscreen 
 multiplayer or any co-operative play during the campain.
  
  Overall this game is a deffinate but and i personally can't see why this game didn't get a higher 
 score on the Gamespot review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wind-OF-s0rrOw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you want in a FPS. It has some good guns and some great graphics. Also 
 the sounds! I can almost feel like I am being hit by bullets. Plus the fact you can destroy 90% 
 of objects is very fun. It also helps you plan a better strategy. Also if you not into strategy 
 it's just plain fun. You can blow stuff up and ride in a lot of vehicles that can make big booms. 
 A great feature is the multiplayer. It is amazing. I am really loving the fact that when you stab 
 people you can take their dog tags as personal trophy's. The only thing I don't like about is that 
 so far in playing their is only one mode you can play. IT is a rather fun mode though but after 
 destroying a lot of crates I just want a game in which two teams just try to kill each other. Overall 
 I would recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radikal01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  My BATTLEFIELD: BAD COMPANY Review
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  Detail: I've never seen anything like this game. The graphics are amazing, and completely realistic. 
 Dynamic lighting is a subtle effect but adds so much realism. Widescreen effect makes it like a 
 movie. 13/12
  Frame rate/Smoothness: I've never had frame rate issues. The game plays smoothly even in periods 
 of intense combat. 5/5
  Effects: The effects are finely done. When you are critically wounded the effects are great. 8/8
 
  
  Sound
  ---------
  Sound Effects: Music is superb, with great variations on the classic Battlefield theme. However, 
 weapon sound effects aren't very diverse; the recording doesn't sound very clear. Their new system 
 of prioritizing sound effects doesn't have any notable impact on the game either. 5/8
  Voice Acting: The voices in the game add most of the humorous side to Bad Company. Your squadmates 
 will constnatly make you at least smile with their jokes and mishaps. 7/7
  
  Gameplay
  --------------
  Quality Story: The story is funny and original, all based around natural human 
 greed and the lengths people will take to receive some gold. Humor in the game adds solidity to 
 the storyline. 5/5
  Story Length: The length is perfect for this type of game. The maps are HUGE, and it's tough to 
 complete a mission in only 5 minutes, and they easily take at least 15 minutes each on the easiest 
 difficulty. 3/3
  Fun!: Blowing up anything and everything makes this game a blast (lolwut) and going after collectables 
 such as gold and weapons add more to the game. 13/13
  Replayability: As fun as the game is there are parts of missions you would rather skip in the story. 
 Gold is a good reason to go back and play however, but that and achievements are the only reasons 
 you would really want to play the entire game again for. 4/5
  Controls: The controls of the game are reasonable and easy to get used to for those who play Call 
 of Duty or Halo. 5/5
  Difficulty: You are basically invincible as long as you have cover and patience. The Auto-Injector, 
 which instantly recovers your health but has a recharge, almost makes the game too easy. Sitting 
 behind a rock near an enemy base, you can pick off enemies at your leisure while enjoying divinity 
 from the Auto-Injector (Hyperbole but it's still easy) . 4/5
  AI Quality: The AI could use a little work. They don't move very much and seem very inhuman. Your 
 squadmates are also very annoying, easily getting in the way of things and they can't aim for ****. 
 On the level Crash and Grab being without teammates was actually an enjoyable break for me. 2/4
 
  
  Multiplayer
  ---------------
  Expansion of game: After the conclusion of your single player experience, the renowned and classic 
 Battlefield multiplayer experience awaits. It still has the old classes and equipment choices. 
 Destructible environments add even more. The new Gold Rush mode is a lot of fun. There's not much 
 else to say other than the game is nearly worth $60 for the multiplayer experience, especially 
 for Battlefield veterans. 15/15
  Connection Stability: The games are hosted on very stable servers and the only problems I've had 
 are my own. 5/5
  
  Extra Credit
  -----------------
  New aspects pioneered or conquered?: YES. Major destructibility of environments (trees, buildings, 
 even the ground) is absolutely amazing and really raises the bar for level design in nowadays shooters. 
 What's even more amazing is the dynamic lighting, allowing truly dynamic light to shine through 
 destroyed buildings without projecting the shadow of a complete building. Huge props to DICE on 
 the magnificent Frostbite engine. 3/0
  
  GRAPHICS: 26/25
  SOUND: 12/15
  GAMEPLAY: 36/40
  MULTIPLAYER: 20/20
  EXTRA: 3/0
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company by DICE Stockholm:
 
  
  
  97/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 8
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company was an explosive experience. With solid firefights, the single player 
 was fun. There were many vehicles to drive including humvees, tanks, helicopters, and boats. Also, 
 there is an amazing variety of weapons including the AUG and SPAS15. Yet the best part of bad company 
 was the ability to demolish anything and everything in your way (well mostly) . Other than that 
 the experience fell short. The story was okay and the graphics were fine. The voice acting was 
 done well, where the soldiers on your squad acted like actual people with personalities. The multiplayer, 
 on the other hand, is not for me. The maps are way to large for such a small amount of players. 
 Overall, Battlefield: Bad Company is a good experience for fps fans and definitely for fans of 
 the previous Battlefields. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is ok. The story is enterntaining and keeps you 
 interested . but its really obvious that this game is ment for mulitplayer. theres an easy normal 
 and hard difficulty setting, which is good. It would be pretty easy to complete it on hard, because 
 you always respawn at a checkpoint and the enemies you killed will still be dead. Overall, 7.5/10
 
  
  2) Multiplayer- Pretty darn good. Although theres only 25 levels to rank up, it takes quite a long 
 time. Weopons are good. unlock system is good. Destructable environments are AWESOME. Gold rush 
 mode is really good, sometimes the hit detection is a bit off, but apart from that, very enjoyable 
 and maps are decent 9.5/10
  
  3) Graphics- Pretty good graphics on 360 ,havent notice any real frame rate issues. The water is 
 very good, everything seems pretty good, but not as good as cod 4's 8/10
  
  4) Sound- The sound is pretty good. the guns sound really awesome . 9/ 10
  
  5) Gameplay- I 
 think the controls are ok. The game plays out very nicely. . but theres no prone....... what? its 
 actually not needed that but, but comon, it should have it, controls are nothing like COD's, and 
 are hard to get used to 9.5/10
  
  6) Achievements- For those who are interested the achievements are good, some online ones that are 
 pretty hard to get though, i have got 650/1000 so far.
  
  Overall, the game is defo a buy. decent single player expericance, but the multiplayer shouldnt 
 be missed out on, a blast to play, 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playniko69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Good
  
  1. Nice graphic
  2. Realistic gun sound and explosion
  3. Almost everything around you can be blwn into pieces
  4. Funny dialogues
  5. The story is 
 fresh and new
  
  Bad
  
  1. Throughout the whole game, you only get to play in the same enviroment. Greens and more greens.
 
  
  2. No mini games.
  
  3. Sucks if you don't have Xbox live, because all you'll get is campaign mode. 
  
  4. No splitscreen 
 
  
  5. The gold edition just isn't worth it 
  
  Overall, I find this game quite interesting and boring at the same time. The campaign mode is fleshed 
 outt, but missing out too many features that we gamers are looking for. The mini games, splitscreen, 
 and wide collection of maps with different enviroments in each. 
  
  And as for the gold edition, I didn't find anything special about it except the shiny beautiful 
 cover that came with it. The wallpaper is small as hell, the extras about the making of Bad Company 
 and many other stuff are very boring. And sadly, thats all it has. 
  
  Back to the gameplay, all I have to say is "Nice Job EA!" The sound is very realistic, good choice 
 of weapons, and blowing up mothernature have never been this fun. 
  
  A very nice game but missing a few pieces, so I give 8.5/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupid4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Strengths - Addicting multiplayer, loads of fun to blow things up (can blow up to 95% of things) , 
 beautiful graphics, variety of weapons, lots of vehicles 
  
  Weaknesses - short single player mode, maps in multiplayer are almost too big, multiplayer needs 
 to keep the different skill levels from playing each other (too many times have beginners been 
 destroyed by veterans online, this goes for all games) , good amount of cheaters online
  
  Bottom Line - As it is in the case for all Battlefield games, the multiplayer is astounding and 
 the single player comes up short. However no other game comes close to Battlefield with the ability 
 to wipe out entire buildings. The map size is nice for the most part, but sometimes it is overwhelming 
 how large they can be. The graphics are gorgeous. This game has provided me with the most satisfying 
 Xbox Live experience, however there is a good amount of cheating going on as in most games. 
  
  If you like this game I would also recommend - Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, Front Lines: 
 Fuel of War, and Far Cry 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The story line is great. First you fight war, later u ditch it and go look for gold.
  
  I'm impressed with the weapons in Bad company, Machine guns etc. And the grenade Launcher is very 
 helpful against enemies territories and buildings. It's fun to ride the vehicles and the guns inside 
 them, also the tanks. 
  My favorite thing to use is the Auto Injector, It makes you feel good with that sound.
  
  Bad 
 Company has some off beat humor , its pretty funny when Haggard and Sweet Water always argue about 
 Mike 1 Juliet. Redford is also cool, he has a great personality. You play as Preston Marlo, you're 
 a rookie at first, but later on, u became better.
  
  The environment where you fight on isn't that great. It's always a field and just grass and trees.
 
  
  The Laser Designator is very useful against large groups of enemies and tanks, helicopters etc. 
 I would've like Bad Company more if you're friends weren't very useless. All they do is hide in 
 one spot and you have to do everything.
  
  But still, Battlefield: Bad Company is fun to play. But it could have gotten a nine if there was 
 split screen and better maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Dice has done a great job of making the game enjoyable and hilarious at the same time. Bad Company 
 is basically made up of guys who have done bad things. Some of the characters are Haggard the explosives 
 expert who is in for blowing up a weapons cache, Sweetwater the technical and communications specialist 
 who is in for uploading a virus to the military secure network, Sarge the squad leader who made 
 a deal with the army that they would cut his term short if he joined Bad Company, and of course, 
 you, Preston Marlow, your in for taking a joy ride in a military helicopter.
  
  The story takes place in Russia as "B" Company of the 222nd Army Battalion (better known as Bad 
 Company) secures a strip of land after surviving an ambush and being attacked with artillery, Sweetwater 
 stumbles upon the body of a mercenary from the Legionnaires. Sweetwater says that they all get 
 paid in gold bars so Haggard starts searching the body and finds a gold nugget. Now the hunt for 
 gold is on. After a bit Haggard attacks a neutral country called Sadaristan in frantic search for 
 gold. Because of this Mike-One-Juliet (the squads mission coordinator) told them that they are now 
 AWOL. Since the U. S. Army is now not responsible for Bad Company they continue their search for 
 gold while attacking enemy bases and running from the U. S army.
  
  The destructible environments allow for almost anything to be destroyed including buildings, vegetation, 
 vehicles, and the ground itself. The game does however leave the frames of buildings standing so 
 the map won't be completely flat.
  
  Multiplayer has many maps and will support up to 24 players. Gold Rush mode is very enjoyed multiplayer 
 game. It is where one team is the attackers and one team is the defenders. The point is to destroy 
 gold crates or exhaust the attacking enemy's re-spawns since they only have a limited amount.
 
  
  This game is tons of fun and is definitely worth checking out if your a fan of FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargammerzs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  In Battlefield: Bad Company you play as a soldier in Bad Company, a group of ill-humored and greedy 
 idiots. You can play as most other shooters have by entering in a door and one shot everyone with 
 a shotgun or throw a gernade through the window OR you could now blow open a hole in a wall as 
 a door or instead of going inside the building how about calling a mortar strike and annihalting 
 the whole thing while fataly weakening or even killing the enemy inside?... well in this game you 
 will probably choose the second group of possibilities. Sure the single player campaign is plenty 
 of fun and has a standard story-line but the real fun comes in when you get to test your mad explosive 
 and stabbing skills online. With up to a 25 man match you can kill more enemies in one life than 
 can fit on a tank. In multiplayer you will either be on the attacker or the defender of the gold 
 crates. And by some simple reasoning you can figure that the defenders' objective is to defend 
 the crate and the attackers' objective is to destroy it thus getting the gold inside. The classes 
 you can play as ( that I can remember ) are: specialist, assault, demolition, support, and recon. 
 You dont have to worry about getting bored of a map as there are plenty of them and they are each 
 very big. Unfortunately only two classes can replenish health: assault and support. Assault however 
 can only heal himself. Each map is fast-paced and easy to follow. You should be able to master 
 the online battles in no more than 2 hours if you have previous shooter knowledge... and yes it 
 takes much more than 2 shots in the leg to take you down. Although the fact that a sniper can't 
 take you down in one hit in the leg and a simple stab can, gets annoying but that asside the combat 
 is pretty fair. Overall a great game that will suck you in the multiplayer mode. If you like strong 
 shooting combat and blowing stuff up then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevydriver1123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  It's been along time since I played a console shooter, actually Battlefield 2: Modern Combat on 
 Playstation 2 was the last one strangely enough. Destruction and Chaos has always been a fun in 
 shooters but Bad Company has brought it to a new level. In this game, everything and yes I mean 
 everything can be blown to bits. No more does one have to get frustrated with noobs who camp in 
 buildings to avoid your awesome tank skills. Now all you have to do is blast the building or if 
 your feeling creative, just ram the tank right through the front door and say Hello! 
  
  Campaign:
  
  I certainly enjoyed the single player campaign; it had a pretty decent story line. 
 I wouldn't blame anyone either, your put into a squad which is basically cannon fodder I would 
 go AWOL and chase some gold myself. The comments and personalities of the main characters are great 
 for laughs, especially when Haggard destroys something and always says "This is why I love the 
 army!". I also like how the campaign was Sandbox style, so you could go back to search for any 
 gold bars or guns you have missed. There was one objective I believe in the second to last mission 
 that had a time limit but that was it. 
  
  Mulitplayer:
  
  Keeping with Battlefield fashion, Bad Company offers a treasure trove of unlockables which are 
 good for players who like to mix it up. The new Gold Rush mode is pretty fun, it's similar in a 
 way to Team Fortress 2's attack and defend modes. I was glad the EA decided to release a conquest 
 mode download, because what is Battlefield with out its flagship Conquest mode? The squad system 
 is a bit of a pain in the ass to get use to though but I mostly prefer playing solo anyways.
  
  Overall Bad Company is a very solid game and I expect the Battlefield franchise to keep rolling 
 strong. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Hobo4
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Ben 'Yahtzee' Croshaw is proved right again:
  
  Never look forward to a game; if its good, great! You've lost nothing
  if it sucks youll just 
 have your heart broken again
  
  I was genuinely excited about this game:
  
  A modern war game
  All the flash of the Battlefield series
  destructible environments
  
 
  I'm not saying this game is terrible, just that it could have been so much more.
  4 things it did wrong
  
  #1: Difficulty
  
  All through the game the enemies always had 
 superior aim and it was hard to take cover 'cos mostly everything is destructible. At this point 
 i expected a really difficult game. But when you die you go back to a checkpoint of sorts.
  You dont go back, you basically respawn, like in a multiplayer game. All the enemies you killed 
 so far are still dead and the objectives still completed. You sort of feel invincible and it sort 
 of undermined the experience. In CoD4 some of the greatest moments are when you realise that you 
 are only a human and still vulnerable. In Battlefield the lack of 'real' death is paired along 
 with the atrocious script and it feels more like watching a really lame comedy
  
  #2: Script
  
  By script i mean the story and what the characters say. When i first started 
 playing the hilarious antics of some of the squad were quite funny. Halfway through the game i 
 hated everything about the squad. They have comic relief written all over them. I hardly ever saw 
 them kill anyone and all they do is crack lame jokes. The story is a bit corny too. It rips off 
 Kelly's Heroes without shame. A bunch of soldiers going AWOL to get the enemies supply of gold. 
 The whole game is about the latter point and never really goes anywhere except the last mission.
 
  
  #3: Non-Linearity
  
  I know this sounds insane but i really didnt like the fact the missions where non-linear. It sort 
 of felt as if i was playing a modern warfare rpg-esque game. And when your vehicle blows up you 
 have to walk. Which sucks and takes a long time to get anywhere
  
  #4: Destructible Environments
  
  After you blow up about 5 buildings it starts to get old. 
 And it is especially annoying when whatever you are hiding behind falls to bits. And you cant even 
 fully destroy a building. You are always left with a frame and a bit of wall and roof. It seems 
 like a big marketing gimmick.
  
  Overall, the whole game feels like a multiplayer match, which is quite ironic because the multiplayer 
 mode is really good. I warrant getting it just for the multiplayer. But i bought it specifically 
 for the single player content and i was dissapointed because it really could have been excellent 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeley718
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  In Bad Company, no sniper is safe, any stray tank shell or missile can blow threw the wall that 
 sniper is hiding behind, killing him or simply destroying his cover. This makes the game very tactical, 
 and seeing a grenade take down a wall or send your enemy flying is a thrilling experience.
  
  As in other Battlefield games there are a number of vehicles to get into and drive, and while 
 there are less vehicles then Modern Combat, there is still a lot of variety to choose from, both 
 in single and multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are not up to par with games like Call of Duty 4 or Bioshock, but the size of the 
 maps and the destructible locations really make up for the grainy graphics, although it is still 
 worth mentioning.
  
  In the single-player you play as Pvt. Preston Marlow, or new guy, as the rest of the squad calls 
 you. In combat, you carry limitless health-boosts and re-spawn when you die, like in Bioshock. 
 The AI has no problem standing out in the open and shooting at you, and sometimes they will take 
 cover, but for the most part they overwhelm you in shear numbers. So, although this isn't they 
 shining part of Bad Company, the single-player gives enough laughs to make it worth while.
  
  But the multiplayer is where Bad Company really shines, from the huge, open maps. To the great 
 balance of vehicle damage and health. And the wide selection of weapons to unlock, B-Company is 
 a must buy just for Multiplayer.
  
  One thing that is bad is that the weapon accuracy stats feel off, But either way the 90% destructible 
 environments add a whole lot of depth to the game.
  
  There is always a game that all of us remember, a game that we get an itch to play, some of you 
 remember Goldeneye or some other game you thought was great. I myself still feel the urge to play 
 Halo: Combat Evolved on the original Xbox. Bad Company isn't the best game ever released, nor is 
 it the best game this year, but it is a game i will remember for my entire life and it is definitely 
 a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company quite simply floored me with amazing graphics, sound, and unparalleled 
 destructibility. "If it's standing, it can be demolished" pretty much describes the most interesting 
 component of Bad Company. Hiding in that house will not work for long when your opponents can knock 
 down walls in so many ways, forcing you to keep moving and not to stand still. The multiplayer 
 component is definitely fast and furious with bullets flying everywhere and grenades and explosions 
 reducing what once was safe cover to rubble. A nice addition to this is a surprisingly interesting 
 single player story which puts you in the shoes of Private Marlowe who's newly assigned to B Company, 
 or Bad Company as it's most commonly known. Things seem to be going fine until your company finds 
 gold on one of the dead mercenaries. You, along with your cohorts end up detouring from your assigned 
 objective to chase after the gold when your company inadvertently invade a neutral zone and almost 
 cause a full scale conflict between two superpowers. The U. S. military ends up disavowing your 
 actions and pronounces your squad AWOL, which frees you up to chase after the gold full time. The 
 story is filled with constant humor in form of chatter between your AI squad mates. The campaign 
 is fairly long and is filled with a lot of variety. The nice thing is that you can actually use 
 tactics to take out your enemies by flanking, sniping, and blowing away the cover of your foes 
 with grenades and mortar strikes. The enemy AI is not too bright, but there's a whole lot of them 
 that are thrown at you to compensate so the game never feels too easy. Considering you are accompanied 
 by three other guys who lay down covering fire and help you storm the enemy's positions, it's definitely 
 disappointing that some form of co-op was not included. Your squad mates are fine until they're 
 really needed and then their scripted AI really shows their true uselessness and make you long 
 for a buddy to hop in and help you out. Most notably are the instances when you're faced with taking 
 out heavily armored vehicles and are relying on your ineffective buddies to distract the enemy 
 so you can call in an air strike or get close enough to plant a satchel charge. Despite this issue, 
 I've spent many hours enjoying the single player campaign and have come away realizing that sometimes 
 Bad Company can be quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickprovs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great. The multiplayer starts to get really fun after you've unlocked a few guns. 
 This game is so great because almost everything is destructable. Don't feel like walking through 
 the door? Thats fine just blow a hole in the wall. Enemy's camping in a building? Get in the artillery 
 cannon and turn the building in to a pile of dust. With all classes you have to choose from assault, 
 recon (sniper) , etc. you can fight however you want. You unlock points by ranking up and you use 
 those points towards primary weapons side arms or upgrades. So for assault you could by an ak47 
 m16 etc. Then side arms from detonators to mini sensors (kind of like a uav from cod 4) , to bombs. 
 Theres so much to buy and get. 
  
  Now the gameplay. The gameplay online is really amazing. You can use any kind of class on any map 
 and still do good with it. It's not like (oh this map is great for sniping) . All the maps are made 
 perfectly for any class. Stay and guard your area with a shotgun or lmg. Or go hiding in the pushes 
 and grass and wait for enemies to walk by and blow there heads off. (not really)
  This game also features vehicles. They consist of transports, humvees, light tank, heavy tank, 
 golf carts (lol seriously) , gunships (helis) and some other vehicles. This adds a twist and a lot 
 of extra fun into all the maps. There are turrets, and artillery, around for you when you come 
 across a heavy tank or gunship. Or use your grenade launcher or make a rocket launcher as a side 
 gun.
  
  The single player is great too. Not as good as it could have been but it does offer some funny 
 and 
  
  
  All in all this game offers endless good fun. And its only 30$ now at gamestop as of now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This is very fun with lots to do and lots to see. You do have to stay in the radar but you can 
 pretty much go anywhere and do the mission how you want to. Want to flank, or just run right through, 
 or maybe you want to sneak and take them out when they aren't looking. Well you can do either and 
 it makes it more quick since you can now break down walls! I kind of thought it wasn't very realistic 
 when I found out you can knife a wall a few times and it will crumble like you blew it up, but 
 whatever. The Single Player is great and has a couple of jokes in it as well. The game is short 
 if you just run through the game doing what you are supposed to, but if you actually go around 
 and look for things like new guns or gold then this game is long enough. The AI is pretty good 
 but I was able to walk up to a computer and they wouldn't shoot at me, guess it was a glitch. The 
 graphics are good and the weapons are great. You will find out the personality of your teamates 
 as soon as they start talking; hill billy, scared translator, and the serious guy. The multiplayer 
 in this game is great but the lack of gametypes is disappointing, but I'm sure you can get over 
 it. You would want to get this game just for the gameplay and multiplayer. Now I'm going to get 
 me a Truckasourus Rex! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Fighter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  As soon as i played this game i thought it was wicked! The graphics are very good, the singleplayer 
 has a medium length, funny and good. Furthermore the environment is destructible, and even on MULTIPLAYER!! 
 How great is that? The computer is smart and challenging! However there are a couple of flaws like 
 not every single detail is destructible, there is always something left. Then the multiplayer its 
 sooo awesome, especially when you go into a house to reload, and there is a tank outside! Then 
 BANG! Debris and dust everywhere and there is a massive hole in the wall. Then you think "Oh son 
 of a...." The sound is perfect its like your were in the war, for example when someone takes a 
 shot at you with a sniper and the bullet whizzes past your head! Or the sound when your shooting 
 in a house, the echo! One word for this game AMAZING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaBosjesman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun, the fact that you can blow pretty much everything up makes this game a 
 must have. The single player campaign is fun, I like the different characters and how they interact 
 together. The sound design in this game are great, the noise it makes when you shoot inside a building 
 is very realistic. The weapons in the game are realistic and powerfull
  And it is great to have the health injector, I definitely used it a lot getting through the campaign, 
 on the other hand it wasn't very difficult to finish this game. The story line is fun and you will 
 get a lot of variety, I liked flying the weird looking chopper around and blowing stuff up with 
 the grenade launcher. The dictator guy is kinda funny as well. I consider this one of the nicest 
 shooters I have in my collection.
  This game is a lot of fun and I can't get enough of blowing things up, no cover is safe in this 
 game for the enemy or yourself. You should definitely try this game out , you won't regret it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvsocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Challenge 9.0
  In single player you choose your difficulty, so of course it ranges from easy to really hard. Online 
 is more or less the same it just depends who your playing with.
  
  Character Customization 2.0
  You don't get to customize your character but it is a FPS and Battle 
 Field have never really had any customization.
  
  Controls 8.0
  Controls are very well set up. The 'Y' or Triangle button instantly will make you slash your knife 
 (instead of switching to your knife then attcking) so whether your waiting for someone to pass 
 or they popped up in front of you your able to get the kill. The only bad thing is lots of people 
 complain about the Helicopter controls. They are not bad just set up different, because any one 
 that has played this know the massive damage some can do with the heilcopter when they get the 
 controls down.
  
  
  Graphics/Animation 9.5
  Awesome graphics. Ever better animation. The maps are very detailed with grass, bushes, trees, 
 builds, hills, and other structures. You can blow up about 80% of all the walls and roofs. Now 
 this make the game better if your try to pick off a few enemies and they are behind a thick wall, 
 just use your grenade launcher, RPG, howitzer, or some C4 to destroy there cover. You can do this 
 to "sneak" in or make a nice breeze to clean the air of sulfur. Now you cant completly destroy 
 the builds, you cant destroy the second story floor in a house or ladders which is good because 
 the unlimited (unless you fully destroy it) Howitzer will destroy you.
  
  Interface 9.0
  Excelent interface. You can use the back button or select to view the score of every playing. And 
 the start button (both systems) to view the map to make sure your not about to snipe a friendly 
 (i am sorry to all my former team mates for not using this)
  
  Length 10.0
  And of course this is very since the online game play. In this game there are Achievements and 
 in game achievements. There is about 100 different trophies, patches, and wildcards you can earn. 
 Ranging from kill assist to driving with a passenger for 5 minuets and the game will even estimate 
 when you should be able to unlock something.
  
  Sound 9.0
  The sound is very good. Each gun sounds distinctively different and very very similar to real life 
 quality. The vehicles (tanks, helicopters, dune buggys, APCs, and hummer) sound very good.
  
  Storyline 7.0
  The story line is pretty much straight forward but very funny. You got some 
 very goofball type character to lighten the mood when enemies are blasting you. Just like all FPSs 
 most people don't like to play with bots as much as real people, so the story is a love hate thing. 
 You either love playing with bots and you think the storyline is funny or you hate bots and the 
 story line is to linear. However in story mode you can find weapons that become unlocked in multil-player.
 
  
  The Good
  I like the destruct able walls because in Call of Duty 4 since the walls don't blowup people can 
 pick you off over and over from spraying the walls again and again vs the whole damn wall get blowed 
 up and you know "Hmmm this cover wont help much any more". You level up on the online ranks up 
 to 20 then you can restart but have a symbol with a number by your name showing how many times 
 you have gotten to 20. Many unlockable weapons from online leveling up or finding them in story 
 mode. You can choose what Kits (type of person your going to play as Support, Assault, Recon, Demolition, 
 and Specialist) every time you spawn and chose your main weapon (that you unlocked for that type 
 of Kit) or if a enemy or teammate dies you can take there's.
  
  The Bad
  Helicopter controls get whined about alot. Only 20 levels on online mode. You can customize your 
 weapons. Not for PC.
  
  The Ugly
  No sever moderators, there is a auto-moderator but only kicks people for i think 10-15 team kills, 
 so people will not quite kill you but lower your health or sit and screw around or shoot laser 
 designator in your face (which is like a flashlight taped to your face so you cant see) and you 
 can't host a game. So although there a bunch of servers you have about a 15% to NOT get a sever 
 with the level you want, but still that number is low. And like stated before it is not for PC 
 so you can't have mods or other user created content (weapons, Kits, maps, and other stuff)
  
  OVER ALL SCORE 8.5
  This is a very fun game. The destructible environments completely out 
 weights the low level system and low customization. Also since this game is not old there still 
 can be a update to add stuff. I give this game a BUY IT NOW because for all my reviews money is 
 a pretty big factor, most people can only get about 12 games a year and this is defiantly in that 
 12. The price has also dropped to $50 new $35 used (also some game store offer a 1 year warranty 
 where you can bust the game in half and they will replace it for $3 so i would go with used for 
 $38 and buy something else)
  
  Gloat
  10% of my 1200 are knife kills
  My kill death ratio is 51% / 49% (51% being the kills)
  50% of all match I have played my squad 
 was the best
  7% of the time i am the best on the server
  My accuracy is 29% ( i go Support a lot to heal people and you get a heavy machine gun so you spray 
 often)
  
  Awesome Story
  Ok one time i was playing (Online not story mode) on a map with a very tall construction crane 
 that you can climb, so i climbed about half way to snipe. After a while i looked up to see a person 
 on the next level of the crane so i though it was a teammate. When i got about half way to them 
 i realized it was the enemy team. Some how one guy climbed the crane and totally missed me or forgot 
 to get me. So three of his squad members spawned with him.... i knifed them all. It was THE BIGGEST 
 adrenalin rush i had in that game (so far) . And when i get a better camera i will take a picture 
 of my TV showing that it is true because in your stats it show the Time and Date of when you knifed 
 the person so i have 4 all in the same minuet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  First off i'm going to go with the multiplayer aspect. This games multiplayer is just awesome, 
 although the guns get kind of old and boring the multiplayer is still fun to play. 
  
  The singleplayer is just terrible, terrible story, terrible acting, and the humor isn't... well 
 humorous. The story of getting something for the military turns into the gold rush of 2008, i mean 
 comon no one wants to play something that has to deal with gold. The singleplayer is way to short 
 to even start to be enjoyed.
  
  This is a game that you should wait till you can find if for 30$, unless you want to just enjoy 
 the multiplayer aspect of the game than feel free to get it now, the multiplayer is just awesome. 
 The singleplayer is the only thing that made me give this game an 8.0.
  
  This game is definetly a buy, just wait until it hits the 30$, theres no way this game is worth 
 60$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paidoot
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  So i went home thinking this will be a top game, i stuck the disk in and started playing and after 
 15 minutes i had had enough for the day. The sound quality and graphics were good but the gameplay 
 and the characters were just below terrible. If ure a battlefield fanatic then yeh, get it, but 
 if ure not or uve never played a battlefield game, dont. I think this game is an ok rental and 
 now i never play it. Its just sitting there in its case waiting to be played, but its not going 
 to be played. From battlefield: modern combat to this. I dont think im ever gonna get another battlefield 
 game ever again and i think bad company has ruined the popularity of the series. Oh, and did i 
 mention not to waste your money on it, but then again everybody has different tastes in games. 
 Its dissapointing, really dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeisdisturbed
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  To be 100% honest, this was one of the best FPS games that has come out in 2008. It may be hard 
 to compete with other games such as Far Cry 2, Gears of War 2, and Resistance 2 (two, two ,two... 
 too many sequels) . Bad Company displayed a lot of interesting things. 
  
  The plot of the story mode is based around 4 men that are in a company called "B" Company. But 
 they are basically the rejected, foolish men in the army so that is where they get their earned 
 nickname Bad Company. The company goes AWOL to try and find some gold because the found trucks 
 drive away from a recent battle and along the way they dropped a gold bar. So after they are captured 
 by their own forces, they are then reassigned to capture the President of Serdaristan, Sedar. Along 
 the way, they find old cases that contain gold bars and they are used to unlock collectible after 
 you've completed the game. The plot falls through very well and makes the game worth playing. 
 
  
  The vehicle use in this game is definitely crucial during campaign mode and or multiplayer. You 
 are required to drive a tank and even a helicopter during certain missions. If you're too lazy 
 to walk, then you can always find some type of vehicle around like a tank or even a golf cart. 
 Sadly, there is no form of weaponry attatched to the golf cart.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is definitely a smart buy if you're just an FPS fan. It's addictive and 
 has great replay value. It is a great game that you shouldn't pass by.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  If you have played and loved any other battlefield chances are you are going to enjoy this in some 
 shape or form. First off the new and suprisingly decent single player. The game is intense and 
 fun throughout. The story is ok. You wont have a connection with any of the characters and the 
 dialogue ranges from cheesy and bad to funny and good. The campaign always has you blowing crap 
 up from beginning to end. The multiplayer is always where battlefield games shine and its no different 
 here. In heated battles the game can get crazy with gun fire and explosions. People blowing up 
 every which way tanks blowing the crap out of towns. Its pretty neat stuff that is impossible not 
 to love. Like all battlefield games vehicles play huge role. Choppers, tanks, jeeps, boats, APC, 
 and few other vehicles are included. Vehicles can be the difference between life or death so this 
 results in the occasional *** hole For instance you might be going for the chopper and is right 
 about to get in it until your teammate comes up and shoots you in the face and takes the chopper 
 for himself. Or maybe you are getting the hell blown out of you and you need transportation you 
 are about to jump in your "buddys" jeep but he flys off down the road leaving you to your doom. 
 Just because some people are interested in teamplay doesnt mean others arent the vast majority 
 are willing to work with you not against you. Another aspect i love is the immersion. This is achieved 
 by the steller sound which is realistic and loud which is just the way i like it. The sheer amount 
 of chaos and destruction also adds to the immersion factor. Theyre are many weapons to be unlocked 
 from the mg 42 to an Uzi which is a nice feature. I recommend the m16 and Uzi as well as the best 
 machine gun. This game needs to be played so atleast rent it and buy it if you are looking for 
 the characteristics described above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dropless2002
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Bad company is a good FPS shooter with a fairly open world styled game play. It has a great graphics 
 and a good single player game. As you play you'll sit there saying, 
  
  "what is it that i just don't like about this game" 
  
  The BAD
  ~There's a stupid radar 
 that points out all the guys, that is bad for one. The radar works really weird and not well. ~Not 
 much use to use all the weapons
  ~Slightly slow with gameplay-Reloading, walking etc..
  ~AHHH you cant blow up everything-Iv needed my fix since Red Faction and haven't received it
 
  
  The GOOD
  ~graphics
  ~Some sweet weapons -Laser sighted missile, air strike
  ~Lots of fun vehicles
  ~Good sized levels
  
  You'll beat it twice in under 20 hours .ITs 
 a great game for 10 to 25 dollars. Other than that No way.
  
  One last thing that was very weird about this game. Say you've beat half a level- if you die it 
 starts you at the beginning but all the guys are still dead and vehicles are still blown up. Makes 
 it easy to breeze through this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polish_Assassin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Now i may have not actually Bought the game but i have played a good 4-6 hours at my cousins house 
 owning it up!
  The multiplayer may be vague as in you can only do so much in it but it is quite entertaining, 
 as for the ranks they are a little bit easier then i expected but fun to get! The achievements 
 will blow your mind and may seem almost impossible to get (five head shots with 1 shot!) but it 
 is do-able, my cousin already has more then half of the achievements including the ridiculous ones 
 =P. Enough about him though you have to put into thought what the other battlefields were like 
 and whats different from this one and the other ones. For instance the explosions, OMG you'll love 
 the explosions, you may have expected more but it is very addictive. And the sense of humor! Some 
 guy said that the humor was dull but I'm sure everyone has loved it so far! They have some new 
 classes but it is always fun to unlock new guns and equipment. I can't say much about this game 
 except all the fun things you can do on it! Another fun thing is if you're considered a "Ninja" 
 and can get to places in games other people can't imagine then you'll love getting around in this 
 game as you can jump on roofs if your skilled enough and can blow up almost anything! Although 
 even for an expert flyer like me the helicopter controls seem kind of , well Screwed up! Unlike 
 in the previous serious "Battlefield Vietnam" the controls are inverted in like every way! other 
 then that it is fairly simple controls. You can choose from a number of classes, Assault, Demolition, 
 Recon, Specialist, And support. The support is very cheap though seeing as you have some pretty 
 powerful guns with 200 bullets or more and that you have unlimited med packs that you can just 
 throw around you and never die. Also it has come to my attention that when you snipe in with one 
 of the snipers ( the one with perfect accuracy) it is extremely difficult to move around so you 
 might as well zoom in where the enemy will apear and hope you get the shot. This game is just plain 
 fun and you will get addicted right after your first rank, but if your not sure rent it, enjoy 
 it, then buy it and Own up some Noobs! XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanshi250
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics and physics engine of this action packed game truly is one of a kind, Battlefield 
 Bad Company truly is a disappointment. For hard-core to average gamers, this game only has an average 
 game time of 8 to 10 hours which can be spent in just one day. After spending a large sum of money 
 on this game, you would expect it to at least entertain you for a month. However after completing 
 the Campaign, there is absolutely nothing left in the game to entertain you. There is no local 
 multiplayer option availiable which really is quite a shock as this First Person Shooter had a 
 real potential for its multiplayer value. However, Dice has suprisingly 'cut short' on their programming 
 and decided to realese the game without any local multiplayer option at all.
  
  Older games like Call of Duty 4 can beat this over-rated FPS handsdown. Why, unlike Call of Duty 
 4 and other high rated FPSs, Battlefield Bad Company has ZERO replay value which makes you really 
 want to resell the game or donating it to anyone on the streets after playing up the campaign.
 
  
  After the long months of waitng for this game to be released, I feel extremely let down. 
  
 
  Overall, this game is interesting to check out if you are totally BORED with life and if you have 
 too much money to spend and have every single 'good' game lying at home.
  
  
  P. S. I am (or rather was) an exremely hard-core diehard fan of the Battlefield series. I truly 
 hope Dice will improve the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hvypetals
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  BC is a great game in that it bing deformable terrain to an FPS in an unoprecendented way. Graphically 
 this game is a 10. Its also very easy to play and get into.
  
  What brings down the score for me is the ridiculous way a knife can kill anyone with one shot whereas 
 a machinegun liek the M60 can only kill a guy if you hit him 5 times. This leads to cases where 
 a guy with a knofe can advance through a hail of bullets just to kill you in one shot. NOT FUN! 
 
  
  Other than that and some other gamey kid like fantasy weapons be spammed I think this game couldve 
 been a ten.
  
  EA has always catered to the kids and what the kids want. Just like when they removed the leveling 
 system in BF2 for the PC to let everyone access all the weapons, this after it took me months to 
 make corporal. Arrgh!
  
  Ah whadya gonna do. Enjoyable but annyoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster-1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This is one awsome First Person game. BLowing up things, shooting people, running people over was 
 just Plain fun for me! 
  
  THe story mode was preety good I liked how we have to find thease gold bars or finding awsome weopons 
 to use. But the most popular thing in this game was the Multiplayer and playing on Live. How can 
 I say it teaming up with people and killing the others was awsome. 
  
  PLaying on live features. 2 teams usally 18 people on each team. When you start the game you either 
 start as defence or attacker. My favirote was attacker. If your on defence all you have to do is 
 protect the gold bars. Theres two of them if there both deystroyed you lose. Now some people might 
 think this is easy but it's not the other team is briging in tanks like crazy. If your attacker 
 you have to destroy the gold bars, which is my favirote. Simple stuff you need to now to play on 
 Live.
  
  YOu also get to choose from 5 classes. 
  
  They are,
  
  Assault, Demolition, Recon, Specialist, and Support
  
  Support- is just healing injured player 
 on your team.
  
  Assult- you get a gun and all you have to do is attack.
  
  Demolition- YOu get a Rocket Launcher and some other stuff all you have to do is blow up thing 
 like tanks, you cannot blow up people for some reason.
  
  Recon- Snipers come into play. 
  
  Well theres my review, if you think it's good get the game 
 I really dident disscuss much about the single player but trust me you'll like it. I Hope
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist131
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Well i don't agree with gamespot with the 8.5 score i think it will be like a 9.0 beacuse why they 
 said the graphics are some technical problems they're excellent one of the best game i've played 
 in 2008 the destructible enviroment and the multiplayer is one of the best i've seen since call 
 of duty 4 the destructible enviroment is a good feature for the multiplayer beacuse if the enemy 
 hides his secret place will be destructed by anyone the bad thing is the singleplayer campaign 
 is very awful the story and the knife is kinda difficult to use in battle the vehicles are ok . 
 I think is one of the best games of 2008 and one of the best First Person Shotters of 2008 so if 
 you are looking for a good game defeintly buy this game is very addictive in multiplayer it's available 
 on the Xbox 360 and the Playstation3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvin201
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a amazing game that didn't get the hype that it deserves. Even thoguht 
 it does have its few problems it is still a very solid title. If you like to blow things up then 
 this is the game to get. The game's single player is also really good. The A. I might be a little 
 slow at times but it doesnt seem to be that bad. The thing that made the game to easy thought was 
 that you basically have unlimited health packs. Your soldier has a needle that refills your health 
 to 100 so you basically never die. I find that kind of cheap but whatever. Also if you do die then 
 you will just spawn at the same spot and everything you killed will remain dead. The game's multiplayer 
 is also good. The one big problem it has though is that it only has one game mode. But the map 
 fits a huge 12 vs 12 battle. One thing that never gets old about this game is destroying the walls. 
 When you shoot or throw gernades at a wall it blows up and breaks perfectly. The graphics in this 
 game is also really good. Also the characters in the campaign are hilarious. They make you want 
 to finish the game cause of their jokes and actions they do. If you need a new shooter but dont 
 know what to get Battlefield: Bad Company will be a solid choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrapn3ll
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Before Bad Company, I had never played any other Battlefield games, unless you count 15 minutes 
 on Battlefield: Vietnam with a friend, in which the moment we captured an enemy base they captured 
 one of ours, in a never-ending cycle of pointlessness.
  
  But now, after trying the demo and buying the game, I can say it is a lot more fun than that. The 
 addition of destructible environments adds an awesome new dimension to the multiplayer, and it's 
 always insanely fun to hit a gas tank just for kicks. Even if you're not the pyromaniac type, you'll 
 get a kick out of this. 
  
  The singleplayer, however, leaves much to be desired. There are only a few levels, and it's not 
 very deep. The AI is a step above the average Monkey, and there is a constant glitch that when 
 you pick up ammo, it only refills the ammo not in your current clip, so if you have 200 rounds 
 in your pocket but only one round in your gun, you only refill the pocket and you cannot use the 
 ammo again. In addition, there is no co-op mode to speak of. You would think, with four available 
 controller slots and four characters in the squad that co-op would play a bigger role, but unfortunately 
 there isn't one. 
  
  With that said, however, Battlefield: Bad Company is a great game. It can feel incredibly unbalanced 
 at times, but when you do get a game going there isn't much that can top it. I would recommend 
 this game not just to Battlefield fans, but to any multi-player gamer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockking123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I found myself gitty the first time I played this outstanding game. I felt myself drawn into it 
 when I first pulled the right trigger on my controller and BAM that's when I found myself playing 
 this game for hours on in. When I played this game on my friends 360 the online verion is so cool 
 when your have the gold edition because you start of with the best weapons. The knife in this game 
 is cool aslo because it dosen't break, and it can kill anything in one hit. But the guns and knives 
 are not the only things that make this game fun. You get achievements for blowing things up, Chopping 
 down trees, and killing things. Plus, the characters are hilarious, any time your not fighting 
 or driving in something, your see Sweetwater and Hagard Joking with each other. I would highly 
 recommend this game for blowing things up, chopping things, and cutting bad guys up (Not literally) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 9.5/10
  +Overall an amazing sounding game.
  +Explosions and debris effects are the best, 
 ever.
  
  Music: 7.5/10
  +Good soundtrack.
  +Radio stations are cool, and add something rare in a war game.
  -Not as good as Battlefield 
 2: Modern Combat.
  
  Visual: 9.5/10
  +An even grittier look than Modern Combat, that still has the ability to look gorgeous.
  +Have 
 yet to see any glitches.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  +Very fun campaign, which is a first for this series.
  +Destructible environments are unbelievable, 
 and don't get old either.
  +Environments are still huge and fun to explore.
  +Squad mates are great, adding both necessary support and some common humor.
  -Missions are linear, 
 and there is little replay value except to collect unlockable weapons and pick up gold.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.5/10
  +Just as amazing as Modern Combat.
  +The ability to increase your level 
 keeps you addicted for a while.
  +Loads of unlockable weapons, medals and other rewards to collect.
  +Destructible environments 
 work great in multiplayer too.
  -Maps are not as good as other Battlefield games.
  
  Story: 7.5/10
  +Much better than all other Battlefield games; actually feels like a campaign, 
 and a good one at that.
  +Is filled with enough humor to keep the action fun and not gloomy.
  -Is often silly, and may 
 be too much for hardcore gamers to enjoy.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesmaster5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  So, the first next-gen Battlefield has finally arrived to our 360. What do I think? Definitely 
 a mixed bag. With a boring single-player this is surely created for online playability. But how 
 does the online play compare to the audiences high-standards for first person shooters that are 
 popping up left right and center.
  
  Well, the online play CAN compete with the likes of Call of Duty 4! Though using low-blows such 
 as tanks and heli's it doesnt seem like a fair contest gameplay-wise. The combat is meaty and all-out. 
 But with the lack of a hardcore mode which it desperately craves it falls a bit short. You can 
 empty 25 shots of an MG36 into an enemy and he's still standing. Whereas if you whip out a pistol 
 and shoot em twice it's as if they've never stood a chance. But with the freedom to pick a class 
 with it's own special advantages it feels as if you're bringing your own tactics to each game. 
 But the question is ; could BF : Bad Company really reach the level of the likes of CoD4 or Halo 
 3? No. It may have some small niggles but all round it's still a great and enjoyable game but doesnt 
 quite grow up to be the same height as it's big brothers. Thx for reading!
  
  Review submitted by : Gamesmaster5
  
  Thx for reading! Please give me your opinion on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentpeg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Blowing stuff up is great but gets old fast. The characters aren not bad but the story is not engaging 
 and is actually more on the boring side. There are definitely some funny scenes. Glitches exist 
 such as trees blowing up when all you do is run over them with a tank or truck and fences suspended 
 in mid air when you blow out the posts. You can tell this game was all about blowing stuff up when 
 explosive barrels are packed unrealistically into levels. What would have made a great new battlefield 
 game was everything from Battlefield 2 but with the destructible environments. However, I'd have 
 to say if you are having a bad day and just need an avenue for destruction, this is not a bad way 
 to go. The tanks would be the highlight of the game... whether you feel like blowing up a building 
 or just ripping through it, both are enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_cook100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  -Overall-
  Bad Company does what other online shooters fail to do: keep things balanced, keeps things fun.
 
  
  -Intro-
  You ever sick about when you get a game 3 weeks late, so you are instantly behind the learning 
 curve of all the 12 year olds? You start playing online but everyone knows every little nook, every 
 little cranny, and most importantly: every spawn point.
  Too many games fall into the rut of rewarding their more experienced players with better guns and 
 better powerups.
  Now, let me say Bad Company does this, but not so much to make a gigantic difference. 
  -Review-
 
  Bad Company, unlike COD 4 is concentrated on large scale battle. It is definitely made for Haloites 
 that love "Big Team Battle." Bad Company's multiplayer is formed around a game that consists of 
 "Attack and Defenders." That's pretty much it. No I am not kidding. 
  For the lack of other modes and games, Bad Company focuses on this mode and does what it does best. 
 
  Each mulitplayer game consists of the attackers trying to blow up the defender's crates in order 
 to advance on to the next base. When the attacker is successful at destroying both crates the map 
 opens up, the attackers take control of that base, and the defenders have a new base to try to 
 defend. 
  Bad Company makes use of several classes: Assault, Recon, Demolition, Specialist and Support. Each 
 class has a own unique way of evening the playing field. They did a good job of balancing each 
 class to be able to counter another aspect of the game. 
  Like most of the Battlefield series, you can take control of any of the vehicles. You can call 
 in air strikes on command, and you can now spawn on your teammates.
  To this last point, I have never really liked "big team" battles before this game. The fact that 
 you can spawn on a squad mate is awesome. Too many times in other games you get killed while on 
 a "mission" with your brother and have to spawn back in base. Whats the fun in playin online with 
 a friend if they are on the other side of the map while your stuck having to run 5km to get to 
 him?
  -Conclusion-
  I'm rambling now.... So, there are several aspects of this game's multiplayer I hold in high esteem 
 over many other shooters now-a-days. The single player isn't much to mention, but the multiplayer 
 will keep you playing this game much longer than any other shooter on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: areorock77
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The good: Brilliant graphics, completly destructible environments, non-cliche story, thundering 
 audio, intense online, numerous checkpoints and stop and go play, goofy humour, bouncing camera 
 when moving, weapons and auto injector, intersting characters and story
  
  The Bad:
  Kinda short, enemies are cheap shots, habent we fought enough Russians yet? Needs co-op splitscreen, 
 only way to shoot is to use sights (though nothing wrong with that) mostly cheap deaths that make 
 u slap yourself lol
  
  The latest BF game is defintelty an action gamers need to buy. It's story isn't like every other 
 shooter where the player is the elite of the elite, B-company, or "Bad company" is basically a 
 company of, well, bad soldiers that should be spending prison time rather than fighting a war. 
 There's not much to the story of WHY they're fighting in it, but the player soon finds out that 
 there is a certain reason why they do fight the war... GOLD! The characters are great, Haggard, 
 the sterotype Texan/Redneck, that loves blowing up things with a trusty shotgun and an RPG, sweet 
 water always being negative and playing rock paper scissors with Haggard or questioning Redfords 
 tactics and ofcourse, Sarge Redford, the big black guy that loves to fish and swear like a sailor. 
 Preston, u, tag along with these rejects to trail behind to find a Mercenary unit that is known 
 for tons of Gold. Its engaging and theres always a moment where u wander what else Haggard or Sweetwater 
 will do next.
  
  Visuals/Audio is a feast for the senses. The player is able to destroy anything and everything 
 that moves or doesnt. Its not just something to make u go "ohhh" its actually a key point in the 
 gameplay. No keys are needed, just explosives or your combat knife to cut wires and doors down. 
 The framerate almost never dips, i cant remember if it ever did. Character models are extremley 
 detailed, down to the stiching of their uniforms and armour. Weapons sport a very ruggard look, 
 the metal is chipped, etc. Weapons roar in your hands and the screen shakes like hell when you 
 let er rip! Its also what makes it so damn immersive, weapons actually sound like guns. They dont 
 feel like the recording studio completly altered it, its the real deal. Basically, it sounds like 
 a war, turn the audio WAY UP
  
  Gameplay: It reminds me a lot of Halo just without lasers and goofy aliens. Theres a really good 
 blend of on foot and driving sections. Fire fights are intense and deafing. The AI is pretty decent, 
 they'll lob grenades at u, flank u, kill u, that sorta stuff. Get too close and theyll draw their 
 knife on u. The only thing i have to gripe alittle about is that u constantly have to use your 
 iron sights, its cool but shooting at the shoulder w/o aiming is inaccurate as Ray Charles lol 
 The on the go safe points are good, turn it off then come back to it a few hours later and youll 
 be back to last checkpoint u stopped at. One last thing is the auto injector. It goes old school 
 with the health bar. Stab your self with the AI and your back to 100%, later levels makes u feel 
 emo though...
  
  Conclusion. Its kinda short, 7 levels... eshh, its fun, looks and plays great, swears alot woot 
 woot, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coneman1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all I want to say how great it was to finally play a First Person Shooter that doesn't 
 bore you to death. The game play is fresh and has so many facets to it that it's just not your 
 same old FPS! Also if you want to fight with a vast array of weapons, then this game will be right 
 up your alley. and to add the Gold hunt to the mix is just what the doctor ordered. I think it's 
 cool having another goal added to the game besides just defeating the bad guys, it just makes it 
 a better game, and the off the wall talk between the charactors plus the humor adds a lot to the 
 game. and the radio channels you get to listen to is a fresh idea. I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone that wants to Blow things up!!! and play a Great FPS with a twist!!
  I feel for the first time in a long time that I really got my monies worth with this game, It's 
 a keeper!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Summary:
  -Great FPS shoot, best in Battlefield series. Bad Company is very simular to CoD 4. Characters 
 keep game more interesting than it already is.
  
  Key Positives:
  -Best characters in and FPS that I've played in a long time
  -Great selection and amount of different 
 weapons and tools. This keeps a solid addicting motive in the game, "Whats the next cool weapon 
 or tool I'll find?" is what I constantly found myself asking.
  -Fantastic Audibles, Ambience, voice, and war/weapon sounds were great, game also had a pretty 
 good selection of music.
  -Great Ending
  -Game just seems to keep moving in a very good way!
  -Online play was alright for me, I would 
 stick to online CoD 4 though. I know plenty who say oppositely though.
  
  Key Negative:
  -Main enemy look oddly close to Niko in GTA4, or maybe its just me?
  -Vehicles too easy to blow 
 up
  -Online play was alright for me, I would stick to online CoD 4 though. I know plenty who say oppositely 
 though.
  -Should have also come out for PC, they majorly missed out on that market, and PC exlusive gamers 
 majorly missed out on this game.
  
  
  Overall Worth Buying?
  Absolutely YES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhammer789
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield is a great game. It combines basic shooter mechanics with basic enemy death. Just the 
 same old thing? No. If you have ever played or seen this game, you notice a kind of weird aura 
 about the game. Its grittier. Battlefield's single player poots you in the boots of a soldier who 
 had been (unwillingly) drafted to Bad Company, the squad with the highest mortality rate. At first, 
 you fight for America, then you lay your eyes on gold. The story takes off from there, making you 
 kill enemies, utilize trucks, artillery, guns, and did I mention golf carts. But the online... Oh 
 boy, the online. That is kind of like a gamers nicotine. The multiplayer keeps you coming back 
 for more. The gametype "Gold Rush" has the attackers trying to destroy the gold crates while the 
 defenders defend them. The maps are huge and once you have cleared out a set of crates, more of 
 the map unlocks. This provides endless hours of gameplay, especially because there is no major 
 advantage either way. the problem I have with this game is that the sights on the guns are way 
 to thin, and you can respawn in single player, sort of taking the challenge out of killing hostiles. 
 All in all, BF: Bad Company is a great game that is definitely worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strudel19
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a great game. This game is just as good, if not better than Call of Duty 4. While playing 
 the full game, Ive never experienced any lag, and this is an easy pick up and play game that I 
 would recommend to anyone. The rank system is very nice, and there is a great choice of weapons. 
 The graphics are great, and so is just about every other aspect of the game. The difficulty to 
 rank up is perfect. Also, being able to play games with 12 players per team is awesome. The new 
 Conquest mode, also known as capture the flag, is a GREAT addition to the game, which i like even 
 better than Gold Rush, or destroying or defending the gold crates.
  
  I am a Christian, so finally being able to play a great shooting game with no gore is incredible. 
 As for language, you can turn off dialogue and you wont hear bad words for younger players. The 
 game is perfectly suitable for any mature kid 12 years plus.
  
  Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjoi291
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after hearing all the hype, and I played into it unfortunately. The game is 
 great for what it is. Concept of having a fully destructible map is cool, but the game could use 
 some more polishing. It's a real fun game, or atleast it was fun for me, for about 20 minutes. 
 Seems to get old, and the graphics are sub par. I would rent it before you buy it. 
  
  Single Player isn't that great, the AI is absolutely terrible, they are dumber than a box of rocks. 
 You can be standing one place, move to another and they won't follow you and try to shoot you, 
 they just stand stationary.
  
  Multiplayer is alright, not impressed with the amount of lag, and the maps aren't exactly user 
 friendly. If your someone who is looking for a quick fix shooter, and you aren't really into playing 
 a ton, then this game is for you. It's easy to pick up and start playing right away. Major plus 
 to this game is the amount of people in a single server. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingfirewolf
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  this is so awesome it the best ever out of all the battlefields, and all walls and get blown down. 
 the weapons are sick as and the vehicles well... THERE SO FREAKING AWESOME!!!!! there are 25 ranks, 
 but don't think that is not a lot because there are a lot of nerds and they will kick your ass 
 as soon as you spawn, that's the bad part and a lot of sick as weapons and vehicles to kill you. 
 also the maps are really big and some are small, if you are going to get or have already got Battlefield 
 Bad Company then go to marketplace add ons and download the one for Bad Company because there's 
 a new conquest system going on. a hint is that it involves flags. there are a lot of achievements 
 that are easy but some requires people who cant really aim and your friends to join games, but 
 the are so many arm patches and wild cards to get. and if you want to see how you are doing against 
 the world them go on to Bad Company's website and sign in, and all your game stats will be there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarsternsturm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is fun. The single player is a bit easy with the healing stick. Not to mention 
 the single player campaign felt very short to me. 
  
  Multiplayer cold have used a bit more more match types.
  I would have liked to see the BF2: MC 
 capture spawn sites method. At least that way more of the large maps actual space could have been 
 used.
  
  And what is with the voice chat with only 4 random squad members? Unless you form your own squad 
 with your friends list, your left with the luck of the draw on communication. I could have lived 
 without the credit system for kit upgrades.
  
  But the game does look nice, controls are almost spot on. Sniping is decent, (unlike that Fronlines: 
 Fuel of War.) 
  
  Overall I do love shooters and this game is fun. But I feel with other similar titles such as Call 
 of Duty 4 out, this game might not live up to a lot of peoples expectations.
  
  For fans of FPS's and Battlefield you should enjoy this title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cortolio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Explosions aren't something new to the Battlefield series. However, Bad Company has given life 
 to what use to be a very rock hard playing field. Obliteration is now the name of the game.
  
  With Battlefield: Bad Company single player now actually means single player. The campaign 
 lasts 7-9 hours and is fully fledged with an amusing story and hilarious characters. There is now 
 actually dialogue in a BF game and it's funny dialogue too. The levels are interesting as well, 
 including one in which you pilot a gold plated Mi-24 attack helicopter. Gold plated. 'Nuff said, 
 mate.
  
  Causing mayhem is the theme of this game. Breaking through walls and demolishing houses are the 
 norm. Trees are no longer immovable obstacles. With a robust tank or a .50 caliber machine gun, 
 you'll be an amateur lumberjack in no time. Destruction is what Bad Company does best.
  
  Multiplayer is excellent. Well, after you download the Conquest mode of course. It's highly addictive 
 and incredibly immersive. Ranking up is fast and unlocking weapons makes doing so worthwhile. At 
 the moment there are only a handful of maps, but come this month a free map pack should spice things 
 up. 
  
  There are a few little problems with this game, though. Depending on what gun you use, it can literally 
 take 30 bullets to kill somebody. As well, there is virtually no splash damage with some explosive 
 weapons. Though, the game is trying to stay balanced, it makes certain weapons less devastating 
 than they should be. Tanks and helicopters are not as much of a force to be reckoned with as in 
 Battlefield 2. There are as well a few minor glitches within the game. One example would be that 
 sometimes your sniper reticle doesn't catch up with where you're looking. However, that problem 
 never seems to persist throughout a round.
  
  This game is definitely a must own for Battlefield fans. It shouldn't be missed by people who love 
 a good multiplayer FPS as well. There are simply a lot of great things about this game that makes 
 it a worthy investment. With so many free updates to come, this game will last a long time. Get 
 out there and blow some #$%T up!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Guards
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  First off, the characters of the game don't behave as what I am comfortable with from the likes 
 of Ghost Recon or Mordern Warfare, the game controls are slightly different. However the major 
 displeasure is that the weapons aren't that advance and not at all exciting to land a cache of 
 WW2 machine guns. Although I would say its a good mix, but its more of an entertainment than a 
 goo fight. 
  
  The characters can't do too much movements like hitting the deck or do a roll, it would just duck 
 across lines of fire and gets hit most of the time. Running is next to walking, the bad guys seems 
 to have eyes at the back of their head and had binoculars fitted to their heads. They can spot 
 me taking cover behind bushes and trees, even on the reverse side of a slop too. You can't put 
 too much logic into this game as far as war tactics are concern. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad company:
  Graphics: the graphics are great but a step short of amazing! you really start to appreciate the 
 quality of the graphics especially around explosions and forestry, the shadows in the game are 
 mainly used to make the lighting more eye catching... but this ain't no call of duty 4
  Game Play: It is really fun just running round and instead of using the door blowing a hole in 
 the wall instead, even though battlefield bad company now has a campaign mode, this is still played 
 out in the old battlefield style of thousands of vehicles and a completely explorable environment.
 
  Multi player: The new game type 'Gold rush' is extremely fun when there is 8+ players any less 
 than this you will find yourself bored to death trying to find a bad guy. the multi player does 
 not live up to call of duty 4 though but is addictive.
  9/10 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoolig4nn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Even though the multiplayer was ground-breaking and innovative, it lacked difficulty. Finishing 
 first every map is fun and enjoyable, but after you rank up to lvl 25 your tired of playing it. 
 This is what happened to me. Played the **** out of it and now it hasnt been opened in a month. 
 I will play from time to time with my dad who lives back home, but I never feel like playing it 
 by myself. 
  One thing that really made this game enjoyable, was the ability that it gave you to blow anything 
 up. Walls, gates, doors, buildings, etc. It deemed to be very useful when somebody would try and 
 hide. If Battlefield would eliminate the whole sand box gameplay, then it feel it would be more 
 playable even after your done ranking. Well in my eyes atleast.
  Now, Battfield: Bad Company is part of my video game collection. I suggest buying it, ranking up, 
 and then see if you still want to play it. Some people do, but i dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chief_527
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The game's story is given, before you start the game, which was rather surprising. A grenade is 
 thrown into a pile a gold bearing the EA and Dice logo. When I saw that, it pretty much summarized 
 the story. Your team is in a war and is looking for gold. Of course, it doesn't start of that way, 
 but that's beside the point. You are Preston Marlowe and you are accompanied by Terrence sweet-water (censored) 
 George Gordon Haggard and the team leader Samuel D. Redford. As the title suggest, you are in Bad 
 Company, which is practically a group of rejects, trouble makers, whatever you want to call them. 
 Everybody but, Redford, did something in order to be where they are. You are in a fictional war 
 against Russia and of course Bad Company is sent right before Special Forces are. They sent their 
 expendables, before they sent their $3 million dollar project - bastards. The beginning is pretty 
 generic; you get your tutorial and all that boring stuff. You get to carry only one assault rifle, 
 which vary from M16 to high caliber snipers. Depending on the weapon you will get, a grenade attachment, 
 grenades, or a hand gun (only with snipers) . You get to carry one "accessory", as I like to call 
 it, which can vary from rocket launchers, C4, a tool to fix vehicles, "binoculars" to call Airstrikes 
 and a MP3 style device, to call in mortar attacks. You health does not regenerate. However, you 
 have this sort of syringe to heal yourself. Finally, you have a knife for your melee attacks, which 
 kind of sucks. Every time you want to melee, you have to press Y to stab an enemy. Unfortunately, 
 when pressing Y, you also equip the knife. Hence you stabbed an enemy, you don't go back to shooting, 
 which I assume everyone is accustomed to doing so. You have to press the appropriate button to 
 select a different weapon. When I say this it sucks, it's because when fighting multiple enemies, 
 I'm used to just melee and back to shooting. In this game, I melee, then I have to select my primary 
 weapon and then, go back to shooting. When in a tight spot, it's very inconvenient.
  Now you have your vehicles, which have a lot of variety. You have jeeps, trucks, armored vehicles, 
 different tanks, boats, and a helicopter. Every vehicle but the truck, has at least a .50 caliber 
 machine gun. However, depending on the vehicle, they would also be equipped with grenade launchers. 
 The controls are solid for all vehicles, but difficulty varies on accurate weapon lunching, depending 
 on the vehicle. Hint: Helicopter. Bad Company is a game designed to be approached by any means. 
 You can get a tank got straight to the middle of the battle field and blow s**** up. Or you can 
 take the "stealth approach" and snipe everybody out. However, you can never have a stealth approach 
 on this game. As soon as you snipe an enemy, the whole freaking battalion know where you are, so 
 it rather hard to take that perspective. Enemy AI is rather impressive. Constantly taking cover 
 and it moves any time you get close to one and when managing to get close to one, they stab the 
 hell out of you too. There are no mini game in this game, so don't be expecting any.
  Say what you wish of the above. However, anyone that played this game will agree, this game knows 
 how to blow s**** up, it the landmark of the game, its crown jewel. Absolutely every human made 
 structure can be blown up and it's what makes this game so entertaining. You can blow a hole in 
 the middle of the house, with your grenade launcher, to get the enemy out of cover. Or with all 
 those explosive barrels, you can blow your enemy to pieces. It's great really. When a grenade is 
 thrown at you, the sound is great; you get this suction before the implosion kind of sound that 
 made it my favorite. Weapons sound great, powerful, and each has a distinctive sound which is great.
 
  My only disappointment, it's the rating. This game could have been twice as sweet if It was rated 
 M. We know who is publishing, so I doubt that it will change but I can always dream of bloody parts 
 flying around. All in all, this is a very polished game, very entertaining and great fun to be 
 had, if you looking for FPS before the holiday rush, this game should be your pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since my last Battlefield game. As far as I remember it was Battlefield 1942: Road 
 to Rome. Battlefield game were always great and Bad Company is no exception.
  Battlefield Bad Company is an EA game. Yeah... never thought I'll say this very soon but EA has made 
 a good game. For all of you who are tired of Call of Duty 4 or just want to take a break from it, Bad 
 Company is a great choice.
  Graphically the game looks brilliant. On an HDTV it looks really good and you can really see the 
 whole detail in things such as weapons, enemies and the world around you which looks pretty real. The 
 only not so great thing about the graphics is the character faces, which look like those from a 
 PS2 game. Besides that everything looks great.
  Sound is great. From the sound of bullets coming out of the weapons, the big explosions to the superb 
 voice acting. Eventhough the storyline isn't that good, the game still get's you going because of 
 the great cinematics, in which at least half of them have something funny about them.
  The biggest and most important aspect of the game is the destructable gameworld. Almost everything 
 is destructible and that just brings a whole lot of depth to the experience. You can make you way 
 into a building by simply blowing up a wall and then making you way through the enemies to proceed. It's 
 a lot of fun and you can't get bored with it. The gameplay is solid and eventhough there isn't much 
 innovation, the game still has it's moments.
  This game is worth buying, it offers a great solo campaign and a good multiplayer experience.
 
  
  My Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is the first of it's kind. It's the first game to utilize DICE's new frostbite 
 engine, and it's the first to have this level of dynamic destruction in it's environments. As far 
 as I can tell, the gameworld is roughly 90 to 95% destructible. There is very little that can't 
 be blown up or blemished in some way. Every building or structure can be demolished, down to it's 
 very foundation, aside from the bomb shelters of course. There's nothing more satisfying that blowing 
 a wall out of a building with an RPG and taking out the enemy that was standing behind it. Or blowing 
 a sniper right out of his cover in the attic of a house. Ah yes... it's a thing of beauty. Bad Company 
 also sports a highly addictive, very well put together multiplayer mode in addition to it's extremely 
 immersive single player campaign. The online feature incorporates a class system, much like you 
 would see in an MMO, that is very well balanced. The classes, when played correctly of course, 
 complement each other quite nicely. It's always best when there's at least one of each class in 
 a squad and each man knows his job and what is expected of him. Thus, as is usually the case, it's 
 better with a group of friends that communicate well with each other. The single player is equally 
 impressive. It has an engaging story, lots of laughs, and is extremely fun to play. I would highly 
 recommend this game to anyone, especially fans of first person shooters. 
  
  p. s. Congrats on the new engine DICE. I think you've got a winner that developers will be chomping 
 at the bit to buy the rights for in the very near future. Thanks for an awesome game, and God Bless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinChan10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Even though I'm new the Battlefield series I could tell Bad Company was going to be a success. 
 Athough the texture is a tid bit grainy and a bunch of little things that seem like bugs but really 
 are'nt can make you really mad the game is short of a 10 but gets a 9.5. Sound quality is great 
 like an explosion or a gunfire, eviroments are detailed, vehicles and guns are also detailed as well. The 
 story is semi-funny but lacks an in depth story line. But then there's the multiplayer and that's 
 where Bad Company shines. Weapon classes are balanced, maps are large and can also hold up to 24 
 players, but there are only 2 modes conquest and gold rush the only thing it need is a deathmatch
 
  mode. The rank up system is enough to keep you wanting more as well. So all in all its broke down 
 into this.
  
  
  
  Graphics:8/10
  Sound:10/10
  General Gameplay:9/10
  Story:8/10
  Multiplayer:9/10
  Maps, Vehicles, and Guns:9/10
  
  
  So BF Bad Company is a 
 great game FPS (first person shooter) game and should be one of the top ones on your list to get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about Multi-Player, the Single-Player is purely a bonus.
  The ranking system lacks once you reach the highest possible military rank and evolve into numeral 
 rank, but until then each game is a contest to accumulate the most points, which makes for very 
 intense battles.
  Ranking up your military rank will keep you addicted for days, maybe weeks (depending on your skill) , 
 and will make you use teamwork. But once you reach the highest military rank you will begin to 
 only worry about your kill/death ratio. This is just one reason why most players use the recon 
 (sniper) class. Another reason is the special toys that the sniper receives. While each class has 
 his own toy (s) , only the sniper gets binoculars to laser-guide a missile from the sky which can 
 be manually controlled by the sniper once called in. Oh, and he also is awarded the only motion 
 sensor.
  Even though the sniper is definitely a favorite, the game is somehow fair and balanced, and will 
 entertain you for dozens, maybe hundreds of hours.
  (Probably a rental, but also a worthy purchase) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360noob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I paid full price for this game when it first came out and I was so dissapointed right away in 
 the FIRST LEVEL.. Compared to the COD series, the levels look like a Marioshould game. EA stay away 
 from shooters and let Infinity Ward make shooters that are acually good. The game is not realistic 
 at all and characters like Sweetwater and Haggard do not belong in a game like this. If you are 
 looking for the next great shooter, you will not find it here. This game is just so weird sometimes. 
 When you kill an enemy they do the splits and ragdoll weird. In the middle of the fight your stupid 
 team mates say stupid things that will make you want to pull your crappy modeled XM8 on them. When 
 this game fist came out I thought it might be a fun game because of the non-convential gameplay 
 and the (then) funny characters. I realize this game is an attempt to mix humerous characters with 
 real combat, but it does not work and now after playing this game doubt it ever will. Final Verdict: 
 stay away and buy a good game like BIA: HH or COD4 or 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is very good, the graphics great, the multiplayer is cool; yet better is the selection 
 of weapons as pistols, shotguns, snipers, rifles, machine-guns, rocket launcher and more; the vehicles 
 as jeeps, choppers, tanks, and more.
  
  The multiplayer is great. Amazing maps to play on. The objective in multiplayer is to get the gold 
 or defend the gold with your team. If you're saying "why gold?" well in the campaign mode you're 
 team finds gold on a dead mercenary and fall in love with gold. You chase gold throughout the game 
 and more; well I wont give away any spoilers. Any way it's a great game that I think is the same 
 if not better than call of duty 4.
  
  BC is more than a frag-fest, you gain points by killing (of course) with bonus points for head 
 shots, saving your teammates and avenging your fallen brothers in combat. You also gain points 
 for securing points, healing your teammates and repairing vehicles and destroying vehicles. Overall 
 you are awarded for being a team player more so than being trigger happy.
  
  The environmental destruction in BC will at times make you never want to go back, no more pesky 
 camping snipers you can simply remove the wall in front of them in several different and explosive 
 ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almighty-mints
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  *NOTE: This just a review of the single player*
  
  Bad Company puts you in the shoes of a 4 man squad of ex-cons gone AWOL. 
  The objective in the 
 story is to chase down an elite force of Mercenaries and steal their legendary gold so you and 
 your squadmates can live happy lives.
  
  While this doesnt take any huge steps forward for the genre, it is still a solid FPS. The fact 
 that basically everything in the game can be detroyed, makes it one of the more fun shooters Ive 
 played in my time. Making your own entrances and exits in an enemy infested building just doesnt 
 get old.
  The game plays very well. No framerate issues, and no awkward controls (except for the helicopter) .
 
  The amount of guns in the game nears 50 I think. Theres some variety in the vehicles, just your 
 standard tanks, jeeps, boats, and helicopters.
  
  The story itself is just so-so. Its VERY cliched but then again Battlefield has always focused 
 more on the sheer fun rather than story. There are, however, some pretty funny scenes.
  
  In short this game is definatley worth an 8$ rental if your just looking for some single player. 
 Online on the other hand (from what I have heard) would justify it as being a 40$ purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VadMyster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Fun, addictive and fleshed out. Story mode gives this game the edge it needs! To be honest I have 
 never played on multiplayer, but just as well. The snappy, witty and superb dialogue make this 
 game a fun and immersing experience. At times the game lags, but as I say, this happens rarely. 
 The graphics arw not the best, and not as good as COD4's however this game brings a whole new edge 
 with the destructable environments, something INFINITY WARD did not pick up on. On the whole this 
 game will keep you in the seat for hours on end, so why don't you pick up a copy now in your nearest 
 Blockbuster...
  
  Game Review : 8.5
  
  PS. i just have to write a few words to fill this comments table. la a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aa a a a a aa aa a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a thanks lol sorry 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  ok i incerted the disk into my 360 loaded up when into story and Behold!
  
  The game looks nasty no AA on anything the sound is nasty apart from the Voice acting what is good.
 
  the grahics are all grainy. and look like somthing from a ps1 game.
  
  So then the game wanted me to blow up a building so i did. and wtf? i blow a junk out and wanted 
 then to Blow more out but it wouldnt let me. It seems buildings only have a few spots where u can 
 blow them up. So i got upset cos i thought u could basicly blow the whole building up.
  
  the Driving feels stupid my Hummer tiped over over a rock and wouldnt let me continue the mission.
 
  
  also online wont work says i need a EA account
  
  So useless game from a Useless company.
  -------------
  Grahpics: 4/10
  Sound: 5/10
  Gameplay: 
 4/10
  Sotry: 5/10
  ------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Battle-Field: Bad Company is a great action game. It has a selection of guns, from shotguns to 
 snipers to pistols to rocket launchers. You can also call in a rocket. They have plenty of drivable 
 vehicles. Jeeps, Tanks, Cargo trucks, Truckasaurous rex (lol its an inside game joke) , Helicopters, 
 dunebuggys, and boats. You can man many stationary guns as well. You have a team of 4 (including 
 yourself) , who don't really help fighting the bad guys. They may kill a one avery couple of minutes 
 but they're mostly there for comedy releif. The multiplayer is great. Amazing maps to play on. 
 The objective in multiplayer is to get the gold or defend the gold with your team. If you're saying 
 "why gold?" well in the campaign mode you're team finds gold on a dead mercanarie and fall in love 
 with gold. You chase gold throughout the game and... well I wont give away any spoilers. Any way 
 it's a great game that I think is the same if not better than call of duty 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMULLAN81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  I first must say that I love first person shooter or at least I tend to buy those types of games. 
 Such as, Rainbow Six Vegas, Rainbow Six Vegas 2, Halo 3, Blacksite Area 51, Bioshock, Call of Duty 
 2 , Call of Duty 4, Fear Files, Resistance, etc. I wouldn't say that this game is better or worse 
 than any of these games I just mentioned but what I feel this game excels in is the sound effects. 
 I tell you man when you blow up a wall or shoot a gun it sounds great (especially the walls) . The 
 bricks sound so real when they fall you just can't stop shooting.
  The background of the game is not so great. If you look hard you just see things there like clouds, 
 some trees and more clouds and sometimes I felt it was too dark or not enough of a difference in 
 weather. But please dont' let this scare you away from this game. This game is a very enjoyable 
 game and at some parts very very hard going up against a bunch of tanks.
  I would say if you love first person shooters you'll love this game.
  Also the story is good 
 but nothing they would make a movie about.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxHiTorMiSS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  The campaign mode for this game was actually indeed really interesting. There was a large selection 
 of guns and equiptment that can be found throughout the game as you progress through the missions. 
 From UZIs to highly powered bolt action sniper rifles, this game will satisfy any type of play 
 - whether you like to pick enemies off from a distance or get up close and personel, the choice 
 is yours to make. The campaign is especially fun to play, as pretty much everything explodes - 
 your enemies will have nowhere to run and nowhere to hide. The game isn't really that challenging 
 though, as you are equipped with a health injector that can be used once every 20 seconds or so 
 bringing you back to full health. None the less, this game had it all - a solid FPS game for the 
 XBOX 360.
  
  The online is where it's at, however. There are two game modes available for online play. You have 
 your good ol' conquest gameplay made famous by previous Battlefield games for the PC, such as Battlefield 
 2 and Battlefield 2142. This mode is available on the XBOX 360 LIVE Marketplace for free download. 
 A new mode, Goldrush, pits two teams ,attackers and defenders, either attacking or defending crates 
 of gold. Its ok, but for anybody looking for good multiplayer gameplay, be sure to download conquest 
 mode for free on the marketplace. As you continue to play, you'll be able to level up and progress 
 through military ranks, unlocking unique and cool guns and equiptment for the five different combat 
 classes (assault, demolition, recon, specialist and support) . The only things Bad Comapny lacks, 
 that the PC Battlefields had, were the ability to go prone (which I miss as a sniper) defibulators 
 for the medics, and fighter jets (I'll miss those) . Basically its the same idea though - a great 
 PC game made as a console FPS.
  
  The graphics in Bad Company are above average, but do seem a bit grainy on some levels. The sound 
 quality is excellent though - giving the game a realistic feel to it. The music consists of a kind 
 of harmonica/violin soundtrack, that is catchy, but can quite easily get annoying as with any game 
 you'll play.
  
  As an FPS fan, overall I'd give this game a 95/100. Excellent and explosively fun campaign give 
 this game a unique style, and the multiplayer gives the buyer endless hours of fun on 2 modes of 
 multiplayer gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The Battlefield series has offered arguably some of the best multi-player experiences over the 
 last several years. From 1942 all the way up through 2142, the series has become a staple for intense 
 arcade action and being just plain fun.
  
  Bearing this in mind, you would've been pretty excited about Bad Company in the months up to its 
 release. Excellent multiplayer was practically guaranteed, but in addition to this DICE decided 
 to include a fully fledged, story-driven single player campaign to really flesh out the experience.
 
  
  Oh what could have been... Bad Company feels like a half-finished product that, save for its length, 
 could have easily passed as an early demo of something aspiring to be far greater than what it 
 actually is. The visual presentation is marred by the grainy filter that is inexplicably draped 
 over everything you see. Everything just looks kind of fuzzy. Sort of like an unfocused camera, 
 but not to the point where it breaks the game. You'll hardly notice it, but combined with the weak 
 frame rate and washed out colour you have a pretty underwhelming impression of what the game looks 
 like. The character models are nothing to get excited about, and the same can be said for the vehicles 
 and the environments.
  
  The campaign is a lot longer than it really needs to be, which wouldn't be a problem if it didn't 
 feel like you were racing from one end of an incredibly huge map to the other. To make this even 
 more drawn out and boring, there isn't much variety to the campaign's environments at all. Everything 
 is lush forest, decorated lightly by roads and the occasional building. You'll never see anything 
 more than a few stories high, and just about every single house and building looks exactly the 
 same and have identical layouts. There is a similar amount of variety in the weapons you have access 
 to throughout the game. There are several different versions of the same gun, with incredibly minute 
 differences. These are differentiated by which nationality they belong to, but several weapons 
 in the game are essentially the same gun with a slightly different sound or iron sight. To supplement 
 this the game challenges you to find all the weapons as collectables, but it still sticks its out 
 head as a design flaw, particularly since previous entries in the Battlefield series didn't suffer 
 from this oversight.
  
  The destructible environments, arguably one of the main selling points behind this title, are in 
 fact nicely done. You can convincingly blow holes through just about anything, with satisfying 
 explosions and chunks of debris. The actual shooting mechanics really aren't that great though. 
 It can take a substantial amount of rounds to kill someone, and actually shooting the weapons isn't 
 all that enjoyable. The infantry combat simply lacks the intensity of more recent shooters, such 
 as Call of Duty 4 or Rainbow Six: Vegas. The vehicular combat is definitely the highlight of the 
 experience here, but that doesn't necessarily mean the actual first-person shooting component had 
 to be neglected.
  
  The characters in the story are surprisingly compelling. You and 3 others make up a rag-tag team 
 of less than competent troops in the U. S. Army who take it upon themselves to steal gold from some 
 obscure private militia for hire. There's surprisingly some pretty funny moments in the campaign 
 when you hear the others exchange playful banter. The story itself is pretty solid, at least as 
 far as shooters go. It's really unfortunate that the actual gameplay doesn't live up to that integrity.
 
  
  The multiplayer component sadly doesn't break away in any meaningful way from the campaign. The 
 same flaws abound online as well, as the unsatisfying shooting mechanics and grainy look destroy 
 what could have been a very entertaining game. Perhaps the most unforgivable flaw is the lack of 
 the Battlefield staple of Conquest mode. In its stead, DICE has offered Gold Rush as the only multiplayer 
 mode available. In this game mode, one team must defend a stash of gold crates while the other 
 tries to destroy them. Though the departure is an intriguing addition that perfectly suits Bad 
 Company, the omission of Conquest mode really glares out at you considering the 'Battlefield' written 
 on the box. Fortunately, ranking and unlockable weapons make the transition to this new title but 
 you won't find yourself nearly as motivated to unlock them as you did with the prior installments.
 
  
  Bad Company could have been a great experience if it had more polish and relied on more than vehicular 
 combat to entertain the player, but as it stands it's a bland, repetitive and ultimately unsatisfying 
 experience that will leave you wanting more from the team who brought you such enjoyable games 
 in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh-Fu
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of BF on the PC you are probably going to like some changes and hate some changes 
 made as it moves to consoles. Either way Bad Company delivers a great port and retains the feel 
 of its predecessors with give the Havoc engine a much needed overhaul.
  BC is a fleshed out package well worth your hard earned cash it comes loaded with a dedicated multiplayer 
 following due to its progressive reward system. You have two major game modes to play with. Conquest 
 and Gold Rush. Conquest is classic BF gameplay, you capture neutral positions on the map and use 
 them to release strategies of position and map control on the opposing team. The Second is Gold 
 Rush that puts the opposing team in more of a direct line with each other as the Attackers attempt 
 to destroy targets of opportunity and the other team is to defend it. Once a base is captured the 
 teams are moved up the map.
  BC offers a myriad of different awards and trophies to record your progress and completion always 
 giving you new incentive to master all of the five classes. Also as you gain points you can rank 
 up allowing you access to different items and weapons as you choose.
  BC is more than a frag-fest, you gain points by killing (of course) with bonus points for head 
 shots, saving your teammates and avenging your fallen brothers in combat. You also gain points 
 for securing points, healing your teammates and repairing vehicles and destroying vehicles. Overall 
 you are awarded for being a team player more so than being trigger happy.
  The environmental destruction in BC will at times make you never want to go back, no more pesky 
 camping snipers you can simply remove the wall in front of them in several different and explosive 
 ways. DICE has also announced FREE maps to come out in the future.
  While the multiplayer is top notch it's not without flaws. There have been some serious lag issues 
 and the melee attack feels stiff and unnatural, yet still rewarding. Also sometimes with all the 
 destruction you will find your player to be caught up on some very minor obstacles which can be 
 frustrating as you get shot in the face.
  While the main Prize in BC is its multiplayer DICE also gives us a healthy and lengthy single player 
 campaign which serves as decent training for its online counterpart. You will appreciate the destructive 
 glory even more as you shoot through walls and level forests. You are a new recruit named Preston 
 and are newly assigned to Bravo Company aka Bad Company. You have a team of three misfits which 
 at times can be funny but more so come off cheesy. The graphics are great on both character models 
 and environments, although as the campaign progresses you will probably say more than once that 
 you have been here before.
  The campaign objectives never stray too far than going here and killing this however the action 
 is fast pace and keeps you in the game and moving forward. It's so well paced actually that taking 
 time to find all the hidden goodies can become real tedious. You will also probably wonder while 
 you can't play co=op with friends especially as ninety percent of the campaign has you team up 
 with immortal AI that take more than five minutes to kill something. While this is a setback you 
 will enjoy the game by yourself as well.
  
  Online and Offline the sound of Bad Company is one of the best out there. You hear a major difference 
 in explosions and gun fire depending on what and where you are shooting. The music is a mix of 
 the epic Battlefield theme and some Bluegrass tunes that fit the motif very well. Don't have 5.1? 
 BC is a great reason to invest in one.
  All in all Battlefield: Bad Company may not have what every FPS fan wants, but it is a solid and 
 polished package worth a look from anyone who enjoys a good campaign or a Progressive online shooter.
 
  GRAPHICS AND DESIGN: 8
  SOUND AND MUSIC: 10
  GAMESPLAY: 8
  REPLAY AND VALUE 9
  OVERALL AVERAGE 8.75
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazpol
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Having not played the other Battlefield games this review is more of a standalone of the game rather 
 than comparing it to the others in the Battlefield series. As FPS shooters go this is game is fun 
 and to me a good change from Call of Duty 4. One thing I like is that for 360 achievement nuts, 
 achievements can be gained in the multi-player game which was something lacking in COD4. The online 
 play is fun, and battles can range anywhere from 10 minutes up until a half hour depending upon 
 how many bases can be taken by the attackers. 
  
  Some of the more annoying aspects if you have spent much time playing other FPS games like COD 
 is a lack of different positions (such as prone) so everyone becomes a much more open target. There 
 is a small selection of vehicles for you to choose from and only 1 helicopter, but the fact there 
 is vehicles to play adds to the multi-player fun.
  
  The graphics of the game are well done, and the single player storyline is challenging and at times 
 humorous as well. Destroying all buildings in site and questing for gold does give you reason to 
 actually spend time playing the single player story and not spending all your time in the on-line 
 mode. As mentioned, if you are a COD4 fan, then this game should be right up your alley. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: operating
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  We've all played the Battlefield games, from first to last, and we've all experienced the awesome 
 multiplayer, mediocre singleplayer, and everything these games has to offer. Then, along strolls 
 Bad Company, offering up a new style of gameplay, an ACTUAL storyline, and an amzing engone to 
 boot. Despite the immediate, wow effect of the game, including awesome graphics, physics, and gameplay 
 alike, there were some issues regarding the online play. Less than satisfactory server times, lag 
 issues, enemies not being killed through pure effort, and, the ranking system, all were well, not 
 very good. If a certain player had a faster connection by the slightest increment, they usually 
 had the upper hand, in all situations. But overall, the variety of maps, destruction, gameplay 
 tactics, and weapons, almost made up for the bad. In the end, all Bad Company really offers to 
 new era games, is the details, otherwise, its still just Battlefield.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PixelGalore
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  The game is a disappointment if you are a fan of the other games in the series. 
  
  If you have played the other Battle Fields on Pc be ready to be let down. The game is a huge improvement 
 compared to the last installment on the xbox (360) . But just does not cut it for the Battle Field 
 Series.
  
  Things you migt notice if you are a fan.
  
  1. No Prone (Bad for sniping)
  
  2. Maps are not as big
  
  3. Only one air Vehicle (Helicopter) and is even harder to fly 
 than PC.
  
  4. If you do not invite your friends to a Custom party before you join a game you are stuck with 
 a random squad. You cannot choose who you team up with in a random game. And you might be stuck 
 playing all by yourself with nobody to talk to.
  
  5. The kits compared to the others games are not as good to my openion. 
  
  6. In every battle 
 field game it seems like they upgrade the game in some way. Besides the enviroments being destruclble 
 they did not add anything new to the game. 
  
  I recommend Battle Field 2142 or Battle Field: SF if you are trying to find a FPS game that is 
 more war like. But if you are hoping Bad Company is the newest and best installment of the series 
 im afraid you are going to be let down.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3N3wM3ssiah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is absolutely amazing i think that it could possibly be one of the best 
 shooters ever created bar none its got immersive game-play and will make you feel like your in 
 a battle fighting to defend or destroy.
  
  
  The multiplayer is the core of the game with huge maps, awesome weapons and vehicles, and a good 
 ranking system. It has two main game types. A attack and defend type that make you either find 
 and destroy the enemies base or stand with your team to defend your base and a conquest type that 
 makes both teams try to capture different bases so you have to do both capture your enemys bases 
 and defend your bases at the same time. 
  
  
  Though there are a few things i think should be changed such as: customized weapons-You cant add 
 scopes and camo like Call of Duty 4. Unlocks-It takes a long time to unlock weapons and some you 
 cant get anymore but if you had them before the took them out you still have them. otherwise the 
 multiplayer is the best I've ever seen. single player-The single player is short and should have 
 been different 
  
  
  The single player is great tons of action and humor although it is kind of short for such a great 
 game you can tell they're more focused on multiplayer but altogether a great game 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adakin01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a decent filled first-person shooter with some awesome graphics as you can run round 
 in every sing house, (yes every single house, building, factory and even a shop) . they have spent 
 a lot of tim e making an epic game and me personally thinks it is the best game in all the battlefield 
 series.
  It is a must have game in the series as it contains loud bangs, bloody violence and also Gold. yes 
 Gold is the aim of the game as the more gold you collect in this game you unlock more thing's such 
 as guns.
  But really you have to buy this game just to have a little fun with the rocket launchers blowing 
 up the houses and that sort of thing...
  
  By the way the story is also great as i have myself completed this game in approximately 22 hours 
 and 30 minutes. the story is quite good as you must be very tactical and strategical. 
  
  p. s cod 4 and battlefield: bad company are probably rates the same in my books for all you cod 4 
 fan's this is a must have. cod 4 means ( call of duty 4) for all you people who don't know by the 
 way!!! the game is a 16+.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-spades93
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  id like to start by saying that if i was rating this on its tory line i would give it a 10. Its 
 quite simply hilarious, the way a group of unwanted soldiers that are sent into impossible situations 
 come out on top. 
  But sadly im not ive gotta base my review on its stale and very unsatisfying gameplay. The story 
 is of a reasonable length but it feels a lot longer, if youve finally obliteratd an enemy camp 
 you ring hq. only that charming women on the radio gives you a long winded reason of why yet again 
 you cant rest you have to go do another task that was almost exactly the same as the last.
  Guns feel quite unsatisfying to shoot but there is a wide variety of weapons, the cream of the 
 crop lying in the explosives which look beautiful. The LIFE-2 is a good idea but it makes gameplay 
 feel very cheap if you can just stick something in u and give u health. U could argue that its 
 similar to cod4 or halo 3 but it doesnt feel at all like that. Vehicles are one of the games strong 
 points. tanks and helicopters are both amazing to drive/fly or shoot but theyre cheapened by the 
 fact tjhat repair them by merely pulling out a screwdriver YES THATS RIGHT a SCREWDRIVER and fixing 
 them. Destructable environments fit in the overall description of this game, not quite. yes its 
 a good idea to be able to shoot through some thin materials but when you can completely tear apart 
 a house or the house that ure in gets tore down, it does become a neausance. But for some reason 
 you cannot shoot through walls. 
  the online is OK but the combination of lack of modes very unsatisfying shooting (especially sniping) 
 and poorly designed maps (you may disagree but look closely and u'll find one end is always very 
 sparse)
  make it feel quite labourious. so overall id say MEH
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: netgameboy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, Kelly's Heroes was friggin hilarious. Fun to watch, and you wish you were there 
 the whole time it was happening. Donald Sutherland's Oddball character alone made this movie. Don't 
 know what I'm talking about? No probs... just play Bad Company and you'll ALMOST be in that movie.
 
  
  Bad Company while, definitely an army game, has so many edges, like Gears, there's just too much 
 going on to remember you're playing a great army game like Call of Duty 2. Now while that, and 
 Ghost Recon 2, are my favorite straight military games, it is also what I don't like about them 
 in only that they are too serious. Call of Duty 4 of course stands alone as a singular achievement 
 also, but yet, also serious.
  
  For me I'm always going to look for something more, some edge that makes the difference. I've existed 
 in a heavily military background from my family, including myself, formally serving, so I don't 
 always like to go back to that reality. No, escape is more my plan, and games like Bad Company 
 just fit the bill. Laughs, constant chatter, earthy music on my radio, and explosions all around. 
 Oh yeah and.... gold!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRBIGG48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game has a great story that keeps u wanting more and it looks, sounds, and feels great the online 
 gameplay is fast paced and full of fun and excitement and keeps u playin for hours overall i say 
 it is a great game to buy and play over and over because of the vast maps it is playable in many 
 different ways and the multiplayer maps are amazing to play on goldrush is a great new game and 
 of course conquest mode is back and better than ever. the characters are fun and interesting and 
 keep the singleplayer missions full of laughs, and the amazing destruction capabilities put this 
 game on a whole new level of fps games finally a game were a tank doesn't get caught in the trees 
 a forest is no longer an enemy just make a road right through them it is awesome and to sum things 
 up i think this game is great and can't wait for the next installment of the battlefield series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshxpit91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  if you've seen my other reviews you know i'm big on shooters. i don't actually own this game so 
 the time I've spent with this game is much more limited than i would have liked. This review is 
 based on my play time through the single player campaign on Easy (I'm currently trying to re-play 
 it on hard until my friend wants it back) and a few hours of multi player over xbox live
  
  Story: The Story is kinda stupid on paper, i'm not gonna lie. However the incredible detail, interesting 
 characters and unforgettable voice work more than make up for it. You play as Preston Marlowe. 
 you're a soldier thats been assigned to B-company. B-company is where they give "criminal-soldiers" 
 i guess you could say, a second chance. i'm not sure if i worded that right... oh well. So you play 
 as Private Marlow in your 4 man squad with Terrence Sweetwater he's the one who talks too much, George 
 Gordon Haggard Jr, a. k. a "Haggard" he's the guy that just likes it when stuff blows up. he's my 
 favorite :P and your squad leader Sergeant Samuel D. Redford, he just wants to go home and go fishing. 
 i'm bad with names... if i remembered all 4 main characters to the note by the end of the game then 
 they must have been pretty fricken awesome. But back to the story. You're at war with Russia for 
 some reason... never figured out why really, but it turns out you're also fighting the "Legionnaires" 
 they're mercenaries and they have GOLD! in short, you and your squad split off and go A. W. O. L. 
 to try and find this gold. its not THAT great, but its unique and they keep it interesting, like 
 one mission towards the end where you actually have to try and STOP the U. S. forces from advancing 
 so you can get to the gold before they do.
  
  Graphics: PERFECT. well, almost perfect. basically the highlight of the visuals is almost everything 
 can be blown into little tiny pieces. which is AWESOME. but the engine is a little flawed. most 
 of the time it works great however there were a few instances i almost ended up killing myself 
 because my grenade launcher wouldn't shoot through a thin wooden beam left over from a previous 
 explosion.... wtf?? But that was the only flaw with the system i could find. other than the destruction, 
 the characters look great. weapons look and act very real and the lighting effects are pretty jaw-dropping. 
 i was very impressed with this games visuals.
  and as always for my reviews this was played on a nice 32" HD LCD wall mounted display. =] 
  
 
  Sound: best sound i've ever heard in a shooter PERIOD. I forgot what its called but it has this 
 system for distance where explosions off in the distance sound like they're far away and there 
 is a delay between what you see and what you hear in the distance for a nice realistic effect. 
 while things that shoot or blow up right next to you will pretty much knock things off the walls 
 upstairs and in the next house over. The guns sound awesome and unique. I'm not sure if they sound 
 quite like their real life versions but they sound awesome nonetheless. and as i mentioned before, 
 the voice acting is outstanding. The musical score is original and well done. I thought the musical 
 choice was kind of strange at first but by the end it REALLY grows on you
  
  Gameplay: This is the most flawed part of the game, which isn't saying much because the gameplay 
 is actually quite amazing. everything you'd want the controls to be are there. the ONLY things 
 i didn't like is that even when you run, it doesn't seem too fast at all. and it really needed 
 a cover system. i didn't like the toggle crouch even though most of the time you still could use 
 cover pretty well... until it gets blown up. haha. So if you can suck it up and get over it like 
 i did you'll love the smooth gameplay.
  
  Multiplayer: i created a separate section for multiplayer this time around because its almost like 
 a whole new game. This is actually the first battlefield game i've played online and its pretty 
 much perfect. i'm not even sure what else to say except if you like multiplayer shooters you WILL 
 NOT leave your game room for days once you get this. i won't go into too much detail, but the mode 
 is goldrush. the point of goldrush is to either destroy gold crates or defend them for your greedy 
 selves. There are 2 teams, attackers and defenders. if you are an attacker you have to destroy 
 the gold crates either by physically blowing them up or planting a charge. there are 2 crates in 
 each "base" once both are destroyed a new section of the map opens with 2 new crates and so on. 
 
  
  if you like shooters. BUY THIS GAME. i'm very disappointed i have to give this back to my friend. 
 lol. i am almost literally in love with this game. it is so awesome. one of the best gaming experiences 
 i've ever had 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evratto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  In this game you can exploit everything in your path including houses trees poles vehicles anything 
 that can be stand in your way, you can blow up an entire town leaving it like trash and all this 
 destruction is wrapped by hilarious situations .... and best of all is a just right difficulty 
 game .... easy to go without frustrations, which is what we all seek when we turn the xbox console 
 on.
  
  the system of war is the classic battlefield but ultra improved and much more clear, you're always 
 well informed of the location, the picture is clear, the grain vision looks like a Hollywood movie 
 and that's the idea and part of the fabric of the game..
  
  it will be a 9.5 if I just could explode the tanks by throwin grenades or firing thru the hatch
 
  
  Since I have BAD COMPANY it lets me play every day for a while, its a must own for your collection.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7guns
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big multi-player gamer so I bought it just for the single player campaign. I wasn't expecting 
 much of a story but as soon as I started playing I was proved wrong. The characters are very funny 
 and likable but on the other hand can be quite mischievous enough to surprise you. I like the song 
 that plays as soon as the main menu appears and it got me excited and soon realized how well the 
 song is in tune with the overall storyline, which is a great piece of creation indeed with lots 
 of humorous cut scenes all throughout the campaign. Bottom line: The campaign is a real treat. 
 
  Next comes the gameplay which is fantastic as expected and the guns are fun to use. But the best 
 part has to be when you can blow up enemy buildings with troops still in them hunkered down, and 
 literally storm the fortified enemy position to dust. 
  The only thing I didn't like about the game is the vehicle driving. The vehicles felt too stiff 
 and so a little less maneuverable. 
  
  The game turned out to be much better than I expected. So if you enjoy single player campaign, 
 I don't think you will be disappointed with Bad Company... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackCrow2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I was disappointed with BF2 Modern Combat. My friend told me Bad Company was alright, 
 so I decided to go pick it up for 50 bucks. And it was worth every penny. This game was tweaked 
 to perfection. The weapons are wildly fun to shoot, blowing up walls is a great way to further 
 immerse yourself into the gameplay, and the sound effects are the best I've ever heard in a game. 
 The campaign is a terrific one, albeit brief, bringing cutscenes that will make you laugh, and 
 a few that will put a serious look on your face. Friendly AI is mediocre at best, but the Enemy 
 AI is what you'd expect from a FPS. Good but not great. All the vehicles respond well and feel 
 great, every bit as good as the last-gen car handling on a Grand Theft Auto game. No action game 
 I have played after blasting my way through BF: BC will ever feel as great, after seeing what the 
 360 can really do. I highly recommend this game to anyone who owns a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OOblahMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer is great. Single player is great. Single player only has 8 levels so it's really short 
 and easy. It's not the best single player, but it's the funniest! Multiplayer has no split screens 
 and you can only communicate with the people in your squad. I don't like that because the only 
 way you'll usually get to talk is if you make your own squad with your friends. Only 25 ranks and 
 it is really easy to get there depending on your skill and experience. No parachutes like on Battlefield 
 2, so if you jump out a helicopter.... SPLAT!!! The hardest thing to do on here is probably to 
 get kills with grenades and grenade launchers. I don't know why it's just hard. It would be vicious 
 if they made it so that you could choose the stuff you want in your kits. Like you can have assault 
 but you can have it with a mortal strike. Or Specialist with Life-2. That would make the game better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I think this game has a good chance of winning the 2008 game of the year honors. There is three 
 good reasons why you should play this game: 1.) This game's story mode is really exciting and quite 
 humorous and there is two different type of things to find as "side quests," you can find guns 
 layed throughout the missons called collectables (these are marked by an X on your map) , also there 
 is 5 gold crates on every misson except the first one (these aren't on the map but they are located 
 by a white and red 'ACTA NON VERBA' sign) . 2.) This game has great multiplayer with destructable 
 envioronments, all though i find it difficult to snipe. There is currently two game modes; Gold 
 Rush you have attackers and defenders and the attackers try to blow up the gold crates wheras the 
 defenders defend the crates and try to make the attackers run out of reinforcements. 3.) Lastly 
 for those people who play for achievements this is a really easy game to get achievements. Half 
 of them are in singleplayer and the other half are in multiplayer. // In conclusion this game has 
 the potential to win game of the year, and overall is a really great game. If you dont believe 
 me you can always download the demo from the marketplace. (NOTE: if you get to level 4 in the demo 
 you unlock the mini uzi for the full game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misfit_780
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield series has been going for quite a while now, and most people who have played the 
 other games in the series will know that is prodomantly a multiplayer experience. however Dice 
 still insist on sticking a single player version in and there for being able to justify charging 
 full price for a game that is genrally only played online.
  
  The reason Battlefield: Bad Company is a breath of fresh air is simply Dice have made a Battlefield 
 game which has both a strong single and multiplayer experience. not only has the single player 
 campaign actually had some form of thought process thrown it's way but it also has quite a good 
 story even if it does copy some what from Kelly's Heroes and The Dirty Dozen. (Is that a bad thing?) 
 The game as a whole is very humarous with some great lines, mainly from the games resident red 
 neck Haggard.
  
  Anyway on to the gameplay. If you play alot of FPS games which i imagine most of you do then the 
 controls are going to feel pretty familiar. R Trigger fires your weapon whilst A allows you to 
 jump and so on. I've been playing the game on normal difficulty and find that the enemy AI is just 
 right they are challenging without being impossibly hard to defeat. However find your self up against 
 a tank or armoured personnel carrier with out the appropriate weaponary and you can say hello to 
 the last checkpoint all over again. That actually leads me on to one feature i really like in the 
 game. If you do have the misfortune of being blown to smithereens then the game won't load all 
 the enemies you just spent ten minutes killing back into the game, they will remain dead. It feels 
 alot more like a respawn system as aposed to a check point one. 
  
  there are some fantastic sound effects in Battlefield: BC. if you are standing in a house and an 
 enemy RPG smashes through the wall then the screen desaturates and blurs, your ears ring and you 
 become completly disorientated. It really does make you dive for cover!
  
  I would talk about the multiplayer aspect of the game but the truth is I havn't tried it yet. However 
 going on the strengths of the other games in the series I imagine it's just as good if not better. 
 
  
  So to summarize Battlefield: Bad Company is a great single player game which will keep you entertained 
 for a good 20 hours maybe even more if you decide to go back and play through again to unlock all 
 the achievements. I could also see the multiplayer adding another good 15 to 20 hours to the game 
 so quite good value for money all considered. To truely enjoy this game I feel you should play 
 it through a decent surround sound system, thats how good the audio is. But it's great fun regardless. 
 If your still not sure about this one i recommend a rent at the least. 
  
  Well I think thats about it hope this helped and happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsofty12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlefeild Bad Company was a good game but there are a cupale things that cuold have made it better. 
 One the multyplayer couldlet you play with out having Xboxlive so you can just play with your freinds. 
 I found the whole point of destrouing every thing was one of the selling points for me,
  
  The graphics were very good but when things start blowing up or get really intense they started 
 to decreese but the cool facter made up for it. the sound was very well done . The bad guys would 
 talk to each other so It kind of made it easyer to find them
  
  I think the syory line was pretty good but it could have been better but it was entertaining. the 
 Length should have been longer but Itr was pretty good length.
  
  One of the coolest things about the game was that you could collect the wapoens you picked up. 
 And this game is really fun 
  
  Graphices: 8.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Story:8.0
  Length: 9.0
  Fun:10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cszero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Bad Company is a good game. The Singleplayer walks you through all of the things you can do online 
 and the squad you travel with are all lovable guys. Multiplayer sessions are big and there's lots 
 of explosions and with the conquest mode available, it has substance there to keep you playing 
 again and again. 
  The sound is amazing, and probably the thing this game has going for it when you have to compare 
 it to other games out there. You might hear some faint explosions off in the distance only to be 
 interrupted by bullets wizzing right by you landing in the ground nearby.
  There's no way you can go prone... This would seem like the sort of game that that should be an 
 option for you, especially with the sniper class that is available, you can crouch yes, but that 
 doesn't really get the hidden aspect that I would think a class should have. The graphics make 
 me feel like I have poor eyesight... Things look good and smooth in motion, but even in the near 
 distance things just kind of look smudgy on my 42inch LCD. You can blow up any walls you see, but 
 you won't be able to topple buildings over or anything like that... but you can expose people inside 
 which is a change up to strategy. I do point out about all of the bad I see, but I still recommend 
 people give this game a try, you may like it a lot!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddBowls
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved the Battlefield series, the plain simple objectives (capture this here point) 
 that begin to complicate themselves when the enemy defenders arrive in a convoy of tanks... Bad 
 Company sticks with this formula and spices it up even more. Explosions front, right and left and 
 very fast paced gameplay.
  Bad company also adds a single player campaign mode that seems likes it's the toy in the cereal 
 box (a clever marketing ploy to get us to buy the game) . Forutnately for us the cereal that comes 
 with this particular toy is rather good. I encountered a few bugs and glitches (unlock points seem 
 to magically disappear, among other things...) . But once you get past those it's an FPS fan's dream.
 
  
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best of the battlefield series not only for be modern and the good weapons. The 
 reasons are a lot but I will explain you just my favorites.
  1: The story line, it's fun to play it. It have a happy ending and the characters make you live 
 the story with so much fun that is aweson.
  
  2: Charaters: They are very fun the one with the galsses is like the conscience of the group when 
 the others say lets go for the gold he trie to make them give it up but later he agree.
  The other one was the one with mustache he is the dumb one and the fun one he makes the game fun 
 and I'm sure he will make you smile.
  What about marlow??? (the one you are in the game) marlow is rigth he just see all he is a timid 
 guy.
  
  3: The music: The music is like jazz very happy in the beginning and later it turns to something 
 more serious and in the end it's sound like victory or something like that.
  
  In conclusion it is a very good game you should have it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartonGhost
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Let me just come out and say that this game is a very good game and a great addition to the Battlefield 
 series. There are only a few things that bugged me about it though. In my opinion this game is 
 all about the online multiplayer because it is just really fun and your ears must be bleeding from 
 hearing that it has destructible environments which are very cool. When online they offer some 
 light Halo party-up style known as a squad, it's awesome to fight alongside your friends in your 
 own personal squad in the giant battle, you can't talk to anyone else in the game but your squad. 
 This was a pretty much one or the other decision by DICE though, anyways, I was hooked on the multiplayer 
 demo and bought the game solely for that one reason (Only thing I was disappointed about was not 
 enough vehicle types I mean come on, this is battlefield!) . When I say I bought this solely for 
 MULTIPLAYER, I mean that I basically payed $30 for multiplay and $30 for single player. In my own 
 opinion I hated the campaign. I do not hate the story, it has it's moments and laughs, but thinking 
 back Battlefield never really had a story, maybe it was a step up from what they had before with 
 just bots, but what's the difference here? They're trying to put you and your AI squad against 
 a bunch of bots and call it a story with some cut scenes and dialog in between (did I mention your 
 squad never dies either? It is so annoying that every enemy only shoots at you so only you die) . 
 This is why I say that the game is mostly for multiplayer thrills, I beat campaign and haven't 
 touched it since. So if you buy this game the campaign will offer you some moderate enjoyment and 
 a few achievements but dude, (your ears must be bleeding now from the word multiplayer) Multiplayer 
 is where it's at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjoplin35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant to buy this game, since it had changed so much since BF2. Until I finally played 
 it with my brother. People say it needs more online game modes. But it doesn't. Gold Rush is so 
 much fun, and take's so much strategy to have a dominant team. It doesn't feel frustrting online 
 like other shooters. New players don't have a disadvantage against veterans because of the variety 
 in kits and plenty of vehicles, but at the same time vehicles aren't cheap. They are easy to destroy. 
 For defenders. OH, and did i mention almost completely destructible environments. The only things 
 i have against it is, the single player is too easy and that you can't have private matches. That 
 make me mad because i wanted to start a clan on gamebattles for this game but because of this i 
 can't. I suggest all shooters fan buy or at least play this game before they die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicboy129
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield series have been setting the multiplayer standard higher and higher with every 
 title.
  Bad Company is no different.
  BF: BC is the first battlefield game to include a full single player mode, and it does a pretty 
 good job for a first time. The actually plot line isn't a hollywood blockbuster, but its not lacking 
 in terms of your objective and your motive. If you got your hands on the demo, you would know that 
 after fighting a mission for the US army, they discover that the mercs they are fighting are paid 
 in bars of gold. so they abandon the army on their quest to get the gold, they think, they deserve
 
  
  Thought the story is ok, the enemy AI... well it isn't ok.
  The enemny AI practically stand and shoot until you kill them. They even have trouble running away 
 when you blow a huge hole in the house they are hiding in (ill talk about that destruction later) . 
 Your allies AI isn't much better since all they do is take cover until you kill all enemies in 
 sight (they do take a couple of shots but most don't make it to their target) .
  
  OK, now before i talk about the graphics, there is something you should know. BF: BC's environments 
 are 100% (pretty much) destructible! unlike other shooters like Halo and Call of Duty 4, when you 
 throw a grenade at a wall the wall will get a hole blown into it! This is obviously the highlight 
 of the game. Blowing holes in things practically never gets old, specially since it look so damn 
 good! some of the explosions (like the anti air) look kind of weird and grainy but other wise the 
 battlefields and models are spectacular.
  
  Multiplayer has been the highlight and specialty of the BF games in the past, and this one in no 
 different. With a Call of Duty style level up system, you earn unlock markers which you can use 
 to unlock certain weapons and add-ons. along with the level up system there is an award system 
 that give you cool looking medals and such for doing crazy stuff on the battlefield (kill certain 
 amount of people with ex. a sniper and etc.) . Even it only ships with one game mode, a patch is 
 already out for conquest mode, the hearth and soul of BF games
  
  over-all this game is probably one of those games you'll hear your friends talk about and you will 
 hate yourself fro not buying. i wanted to give this game a 8.8 but the scale goes by fives so i 
 had to give it a nine. But if you know whats good for you, go out and buy this game now!
  PSN: vicboy129 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company makes for a lot of fun and just makes a lot of hours seem to pass by to 
 sometimes. This game is a lot of fun and it's also a really good shooter for anyone who likes to 
 player FPS a lot. There's one thing that I really don't like about the game and that it's to short 
 they could of made the game a lot longer than they did. But don't get me wrong the story of the 
 game is exciting but it seems like right after you start not long after it ends.
  
  Another great thing about Bad Company is there's a lot of destructible stuff in it so you'll have 
 fun blowing up houses and stuff like that. The graphics in the game I feel like they could have 
 been better than they were but they were good not the best I have ever seen though. But graphics 
 aren't a big deal to me anyway. Once your done with the single player campaign you have lots of 
 fun playing in the multiplayer. The multiplayer is the best thing about the game in my opinion.
 
  
  I would recommend this game just about to anyone especially if you like to play FPS games a lot. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This was my first experience with the Battlefield seires and I was mostly pleased. It is a good 
 diversion if I want to take a break from COD4. 
  
  The single player is o. k. You have a squad of military outcasts with a decent sense of humor at 
 times. Then at other times it is just not serious enough for war. The environments are destructible 
 and that makes it fun for awhile. But there are explosive barrels everywhere and the enemy can 
 always spot you and has dead eye aim. There really is no sneaking up on the enemy and taking them 
 out covert like. This however does not make the game difficult. It is actually quite easy because 
 you have a syringe you stick in your chest to replenish your energy. Kind of generic. Your squad 
 while they keep things interesting by talking, this is basically all they do. The killing is left 
 up to you. Every so often they will kill somebody but they are basically there for effect. They 
 also do not die either. The stages are basically the same. Go eliminate the enemy and blow some 
 stuff up. Very average campaign that can be mildly fun at times.
  
  The multiplayer however is pretty fun. There is only one game type however. The object is to attack 
 or defend. Defending is a lot easier as the defending team seems to win about 80 to 90 percent 
 of the time. You also can only bring 4 people in with you making this game more about personal 
 glory than it should be. The gameplay however is good and the vehicles while they can be dominant 
 at times they don't always dominate because there are so many ways to take them out. The leveling 
 system is sort of like COD4 as you continue to rank up to level 25 and unlock weapons and perks 
 for your weapons as you level up. Not nearly as in depth as COD4 but fun nonetheless. You have 
 the assault, sniper, demolition, support, and specialist classes. Each with there own unique abilities. 
 I found the sniper and assault to be the best if your goal is k/d ratio. You have more energy than 
 you would expect in a war game but for the type of game it is I fell that it is more appropriate. 
 There are plenty of weapons to choose from but only one or two from each class is mostly used by 
 players. One problem though with the sniper is that you don't have to hold your breath which makes 
 it seem more arcadey. Actually the entire mp seems more arcade like than the COD series. This game 
 feels more like COD3 with modern weapons only not quite as good in my opinion. The splash damage 
 is good and necessary but also means it is quite unrealistic. If you hit someone with a grenade 
 launcher they would be eliminated in real life. There are plenty of stats kept in this game and 
 rewards to earn that will keep alot of players coming back.
  
  Overall if you have played COD4 to death then BC is worth a look. Just go in with the right expectations 
 and you will enjoy Battlefield Bad Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godspeed117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The single player is a little bit short but extremely fun and hilarious. The on-line is great but 
 it needs a little work. The distructible environment is probably the best feature in the game. 
 This is very fun first person shooter if you and your friends want to jump right in a game and 
 blow things SKY HIGH!!! Although sometimes you and your friends get split up and put on different 
 teams. The pistol that is default on the "recon" class is over powered and sniping is very annoying 
 at times. Like I said there needs a little work but nothing too big to make me from stop playing 
 the game. Also expect new maps for the multi-player this fall!!!! Thanks for reading! :) - Godspeed117 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is an extremely fun game once you start playing it. The graphics are semi-good 
 and tend to become grainy at some points. The vehicles are fun to ride around in, especially later 
 in the game when you get golf-karts. The over all gameplay is tremendous fun with ever changing 
 enviroments, different weapon types like mortars and laser guided missiles, and just all the humor 
 in the middle of all that. The story was given a lot of thought and provided for a funny ending 
 in the game.
  
  I never got a chance to play multiplayer, since I quit Xbox-Live some time ago, but from the videos 
 I have seen, and after reading some reviews, the multiplayer must have been spectacular. Gold rush 
 looked like a fun mini-game that brings in the essence of Star Wars Battle front. This combined 
 with lots of vehicles, reinforcements, and guns makes for some very fun matches.
  
  For Now Danevader Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharp9153
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Gree eeeeeeee e eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeee eeaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaat!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!! Gaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaaaaammm mmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm m mmmmm mmmmmm  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Better than alot of FPS games out there. As good as COD 4. Better than Halo 
 in my opinion and actual has a storyline. Now im goin to put random characters to fill in a minimum 
 100 word review.
  khedgsiagbn df lhgdfkll gf dgfkgfdgf dklhdgf ld ksglkglkds ds sd kdgsk gslkgs df dffs dfskgdfsgfd 
 kgdfkl sgfdk ldsldgskldf g kldfsd dsdkgdsfl df slgfd kgdgf kgdfdf f dfg kg gfg kdfsff f flgfklgkdgflg 
 dfkgvns hvk dgkv kshdlkhgklg sbvsklgrg su ildsgvl dnldgv hsdfvbvkvgsklsg lvsvvbvkhs dv ksbkdhsvbkbdsk 
 bvv vdslkbvkblks v vlksvklbklbs dbvklvkvb vv vb k kldskhbdg dsdsv vkv skhkhgf hsgs; hhgs dhfgfs 
 fg; s; gh; jg shgg ;sgg sg; jhgfjh sdj; ds dgsj g; lg sd gds; hg; shgg d; gd g; ds g s gs shgg glshg sgh 
 g; s h; gsgf g; s gg fgf s; hgsghs gs ;gh; sg hsg gfs hg gs hgh; gs j; sg; sgd gs gfsldj; hgsirhrhp sh 
 rhgshrgrh gr rgs rhrus hg srg g hg g ouhfohgnjfld s;; srli rlr sir sgs ;r r; gsg s; gs rs; rhsgg 
 ; gsg s g; hgo shrs hl s g gs gshorsorhg sg g oshr gog hgro; rg; gs f h; srf; hf g rs; hrghoro rgs 
 sogrgr sg; hghgs g gsh ;l rgs osro uhos gss g hgss hgs hgh s; lgl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monolith9000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the series ever since 1942 up until BF 2142, and what I namely was looking 
 for in this game was to see how well Dice and EA were able to transition there multiplayer experience 
 into a single-player based console shooter. (I know they already tried this with Modern Combat 
 but that was not a very good game.)
  
  Let's start with the multiplayer since that's whats most important. I was slightly disappointed 
 with the fact that the multiplayer was dumbed down for the console. You still have squads, but 
 no squad leaders, which took away the tactical feeling of the game because you don't really work 
 as a squad you just use them to respawn. Large maps, except they are cut off to you unless you 
 take an outpost, destroying the fun in being able to freely go where you wish. Also the new gametype 
 made to fit the game, Goldrush. It's an interesting idea but it feels like such a step back from 
 conquest, where as in conquest you and your team brake apart to capture and hold the seperate bases, 
 now your team is running blindly into the battlefield making desperate attempts to destroy the 
 gold crates and shoot everyone in sight (namely their teammates) . The difference is, one had a real 
 objective other than BLOW THIS UP. But I really don't have all that against it, it just feels a 
 little disappointing compared to conquest, also because we had to wait for the patch to come out 
 to get conquest mode.
  
  
  Now for the singleplayer story mode, and there's my first point, there is no story. What you got 
 is a couple of ordinary screw-ups who want gold and they get it, no consequences, no regrets, they 
 get the gold and leave the army, simple as that. I'm sorry if this is a spoiler, but it's not really 
 spoiling anything. My biggest problem with the story is that they set the it up for something bad 
 to happen but it doesn't, and it feels slightly unrewarding in the end. Second of all the game 
 cannot decide whether or not its a stealth shooter or an action shooter. For instance, there is 
 one level where your team crash lands and they get kidnapped, except for you. You start with only 
 a pistol and you have to infiltrate (or blow up) the whole area in order to find everyone. Here's 
 what went through my head, me, little pistol, them, lots and lots of tanks. So I decided to go 
 stealth, what i didn't know was that the enemies could see 50 miles away from the back of their 
 heads, so half the level was me runnin like hell away from wave after wave of bullets. 
  
  But on the bright side the gameplay is one in a million, and you'll surely have fun blowing up 
 everything that has 4 walls.
  
  Though multiplayer is changed and slightly a little unoriginal compared to it's predecessor, you 
 will have a great time playing, and I also believe that for the most hardcore fans of the original 
 games.
  
  If you are a huge fan of the Battlefield franchise certainly check out this game just for the hell 
 of. Though it may not be completely similar to the old games, you will surely have a great time 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuart12321
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  this game is sooooo bad that if you fire a rocket at your feet you dont die you end up with 12 
 health left. you have to much health. the splash damage is sooooooo bad the only way to kill someone 
 with a rocket launcher is with a direct hit to the face. the fact that you have to put the knife 
 away manuly is a terable idea. no private matches sooooo you cant muck around with your friends 
 in a tank without being blown up. not enouth game types. not enouth maps. the bolt action sniper 
 rifles take soooo long to refire the only good thing about this game is that you can blow things 
 up ,the fact that you can drive tanks hellicopters buggies and you can use artillary, lasor guided 
 bombs and a fue good guns thats it why get this game when there is better ones like call of duty 
 4 halo 3 and dare i say it rainbow 6 vegas 2
  
  just 1 word for this game and that is pitiful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I played this game not that while ago. I thought it would be better than it was. The bugs just 
 bugged me so freakin much. You also can die so fast even if you're playing on the easiest difficulty 
 which is not fair for some unexperienced people. The levels are too long. I think they should've 
 made more levels instead of making the levels so long. The levels get too repetitive but the mission 
 with you in the helicopter was pretty fun. The last level was kind of too stupid to be a last level. 
 The good thing is there finally is a story to the freakin battlefield series. The weapons are pretty 
 cool. That's pretty much all of the good things. I tried the 360 version. I don't know if the PS3 
 version is better which i doubt it will be any better. Anyway, i think you should rent this game 
 before you buy it which i guarantee you will be a waste of your 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bergstein
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome! you cant blow up everything like the video review said like you cant blow 
 up a roof, or blow up metal bridges. but that should not stop you from buying this game (forget 
 about rental) . the singel player mode is very cool, funny, and of course GOLD. i know you heard 
 this in the video review but the sound is awsome. there sometimes when you shoot from your tank 
 and when the (what ever you shot at) blows up you dont hear anything but that happanes very few 
 times. online mode rocks too. if your the diffender its really cool how you have 10s of people 
 charging at you and one by one you shoot each one (think about it) . and for the attaker's its cool 
 seeing 10s of guys runing with you all to attak one crate of gold. too make a loooooooong story 
 short............ GET THE GAME TODAY. thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phynixblack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with the fact that I am a really casual type gamer, and I am not necessarily extremely 
 experienced with knowing how a game should and shouldn't be. Now that your warned, I will start.
 
  
  From the moment I heard the unique choice of menu music, I loved the game. DICE had me won at that 
 point exactly. I played through the story and loved that, even had fun going through again one 
 last time for achievements. Fun, Challenging, and it even looks nice. I loved it.
  
  The music was cool, I gotta admit I liked the Radios on the vehicles and the menu music is awesome. 
 
  
  The story had me laughing and quite interested, and I am awaiting the day I learn whether or not 
 B-Company makes another appearance in a sequel.
  
  The Multiplayer had me both disappointed and aggravated. Spawn camping, Phantom Bullets, Crappy 
 melee and extremely overpowered weaponry make the gameplay uneven and hard to like. You have no 
 way to avoid a shot from one of the really good Sniper Rifles when you spawn, so dieing as you 
 come to life is possible and completely inconvenient. 
  
  Although admittedly the Ranking system works well for me, I like it a lot, although the betrayal 
 penalty needs to be raised until it is devastatingly harsh, I was team killed repeatedly by the 
 teammate with some 200 points because I was simply walking towards him. If the game can't make 
 them pay dearly for killing teammates then it will get to the point to were people will join to 
 simply team kill. I am hoping that DICE fixes this.
  
  So yeah, Overall the game is excellent, but the online play is chock full of amazingly unfair and 
 inconvenient glitchy-ness and circumstances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil1472
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company
  
  Gameplay
  
  Battlefield sticks to what makes any first person shooter succesful, easy controls. The control 
 scheme is nearly the same as cod4 the main difference that i had to assimilate to was the new knife 
 button. Battlefield Bad Company main quality is that the battlefield is nearly completly alterable 
 and the make sure no battlefield looks the same by having many explosive barrels and crates through 
 out the levels. Blowing up buildings and vehicals doesnt really get boring. Saying a FPS has vehicals 
 these days is not a point to boast but Bad Company definitly keeps the idea fresh. No perticular 
 vehicals seem to have an unfair advantage and your just as likely to rack up kills sitting behind 
 the wheel of a tank as you are sniping from a bush on top of a hill. The campaign ai seemed a little 
 underdevloped, i did not see a big difficulty difference between the normal and hard campaigns. 
 If your an xbox 360 user that does not have live another game might be in order. Bad Company shinning 
 qualities come down to its online play.
  
  Features
  
  Bad Company has a short campaign that can easily be beat in one night. They have an interresting 
 way of accumalting guns in the single player mode. To get different kinds of weapons you must first 
 kill an enemy with that kind of weapon. In the end its more of a finishing the game full out or 
 achievement thing because you cant select what weapon your gonna start a battle with.
  Online is really awsome, sniping can be really effective because the maps are so big and you have 
 so many places to lurk around. Every knife kill you get online you take that players id dog tag 
 and it keeps that in record with your stats. Now you will know that noob youve knifed five times 
 in a match. The games online is supported by battlefield. com and it keeps track of all your stats 
 with different guns, vehicals, maps and much more.
  
  
  Graphics/sound
  
  Theres nothing really special about the graphics in Bad Company but the sound is pretty incredible. 
 Guns and explosions sound more realistic than before. When your in a gun fight inside a building 
 the sound is deafining. I would like a feature in games where you can turn of all in game talking, 
 i mean the annoying npc voices that shout something every so often and its alwys the same. Bad 
 Company is bad for this online you get some annoying giberish, could be albainian telling you something. 
 It annoys me.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer is the best aspect of Bad Company. The maps are big and well designed. The premise 
 is two armies fighting you have tanks, jeeps, armored cars, humvees, boats and helicopters at your 
 disposal. You can pick one of five classes,  and specialst. You 
 will want to coordinate with your other team members to make sure yoove got what you need out on 
 the battlefield. There is no health regeneration online. The assault class can unlock the health 
 injector but thats it. The speacialst class is your medic and he carry around health packs finally 
 making the need for headsets. You will find more strategic talk over your headset rather than younger 
 kids spamming with curses and other obsinities. For the stat addicts out there battlefield. com 
 keeps track of all your stats on its website. There is still an in game stat screen and leaderboard 
 but its somewhat limited.
  
  Achievements
  
  Battlefield Bad Company's single player achievements are very easy you can get nearly 700 in a 
 couple solid gamming sessions. The online achievements ont really sell out and go well with anyone 
 who enjoys the game to play a lot of online multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan_johnson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  So, in previous Battlefield games this is what you got: 2 teams, either in multiplayer or versing 
 bots, fight for control over a number of flags in open areas with heaps of explosions and vehicles 
 to keep the flow.
  
  It was a winning formula. But why is Bad Compant different from the rest? Well it's simple and 
 comes down to 3 things. 1. A singleplayer story. 2. New multiplayer mode with no bots. 3. Destructible 
 enviroments. 
  
  WHAT!?!? A story you say? Why is that such a big thing? Also simple, because it's a first for the 
 Battlefield series and has less of that "America is the best country in the world the rest suck 
 hoorah!" crap that turns me off most FPS. It is also well written. But don't be here for the story, 
 as if you buy it for the story you will be sad to find out it only last 5-6 hours, but come for 
 the new multiplayer.
  
  Yes, a new multiplayer mode has been created for Bad Company and it works extremlly well. Here's 
 the jist of it: 2 teams are fighting. 1 is attackers the other is defenders. The attackers must 
 destroy all the Gold Crates in the map to win and get more respawns. The defenders have to fight 
 off the attackers while defending the Gold Crates. Each attacker they kill removes a respawn from 
 the attackers and once their respans are 0 the defenders win. That's it and it's addictive. For 
 all of you who would rather play old-school Counquest mode, it has been released for free on Xbox 
 Live Marketplace. 
  
  Finally the destructible enviroments. What more can I say about it? You fire a RPG at a house and 
 you blow a hole in it. AND IT'S ADDICTIVE! Whenever I go to play another FPS I try to knock down 
 trees or gates or houses and end up being that retard you see on COD4 who is firing his grenades 
 at a wall. If the rest didn't arise you then buy it for this! In a few years all FPS will be destructible 
 and you can say you owned the original game that has 95% of its world destructible.
  
  Buy it or not: Definatlly a keeper. Buy it NOW!!!... Seriouslly, go. Now. Go on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  well, people sometimes say this game isn't all that great. but I beg to differ. it's great! the 
 weapons are pretty sweet. and the game isn't exactly "easy". you kinda have to try. duh! and the 
 destructible environments are pretty amazing, too! blowing up houses and shooting hols through 
 walls is pretty fun. basically anything is destructible! a thing I really like was the health injector 
 thing, you never run out of uses for it! the bad thing is you have limited health, and you can't 
 just heal over time like in other shooters. but that's what made it exciting for me! and some of 
 the game was pretty funny. good humor and dialog. and the mission level length is neat. it's not 
 really short like Call of Duty 4 was. it really lasts. I was playing for awhile and still didn't 
 beat the entire first mission. and the graphics and sounds were pretty awesome, too! I never thought 
 I would say this, but I actually prefer this over COD4. so it's a pretty great game to buy. I really 
 enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyclephd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Take the gameplay of Call of Duty 4, the freedom of Halo and add some new ideas you get Battlefield 
 Bad Company. Something many people really felt was missing in Halo 3 and COD 4 was the feeling 
 that you're never safe. Well I guess you all have found yourself a new favorite game. Battlefield 
 Bad Company has you feeling that I can run but I can't hide. Yes, BF: Bad Company introduced a 
 new feeling of fear because the environment is almost totally destructable leaving you running 
 from house to house in a mad rush that makes you want to press harder on the thumbstick. Also you 
 can go inside any house you want to unlike Call of Duty the doors might be locked but if they are 
 knife them open or blow up a corner of the house and just walk in. The single player campaign can 
 bring you into a whole new world of graphics and , well... blowing stuff up! I find myself more 
 than often blowing a hole in the wall rather than walk into the door. Also with characters of so 
 many different personalities that make them come to life I promise you a good couple of laughs. 
 Now while the campaign can be medium in length it luckily has a great multiplayer to back it up. 
 The multiplayer has supported many different classes with unique unlockables to buy when you rank 
 up. Every class supports one primary weapon, a secondary weapon, and two special pieces of equipment, 
 one is already unlocked and the other you have to unlock on your own by leveling up. The classes 
 are brought into the game to bring a tactical point into the game. So when choosing your class 
 choose what will help your squad or team the most. The multiplayer teams are split up into squads 
 of four players so as to not have as much lag in the game, even though many people hate this new 
 idea EA is thinking about changing it (not a definite answer yet) . Although this game is very, 
 very good there are some flaws. Some people complain that ever since the update there have been 
 connections but rest assured that it will be fixed so over all I would give I'd a 9.75 out of 10 
 but since I can't do that I'll give it a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overlord93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  As with a lot of peaple, I was slightly ancious as to whether this game would live up to the previous 
 games in the series. And in a lot of ways it does, but it has flaws, as all games do.
  I'll get the main one over and done with...
  ... the singleplayer sucks, it actually is horrific, 
 the storyline is stupid, and the gameplay is poor, it just has you fighting drones of mindless 
 ai which you have to pump with all your ammo until u just have to go around meleeing them. So if 
 your not online, forget about it.
  But as far as the multiplayer goes, it is thoroughly enjoyable, and sniping fans will certainly 
 have a lot of fun, pulling of crazy headshots from long range.
  The gadget and weapon unlocks are another brilliant factor, as the give you a really good incentive 
 to fight hard.
  The last thing i'll mention, which is a right laff, is the destructive scenery, there is nothing 
 more enjoyable than instead of clearing a builing, just pounding it to pieces with a nade launcher.
 
  the vehicles are a bit cheap though in the multiplayer, especially the tanks, but they can be 
 dealt with a well targeted airstrike. 
  So overall, this game isn't without its flaws, but its a good laugh with mates 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugiex
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Battlefield bad company is one of those games that caught me off gaurd, see my mind set was that 
 it would be a tipically same game but with different kind of tech that is added. What i didnt expect 
 that the game would break the formual of its traditional games with just the mulitplayer mode but 
 it also brings a colorful single mode story along with it. 
  
  When the story first started to unfolded itself in the game my first throught that its kind of 
 like the movie three kings but without the political message of terrory. Its about these four misfit 
 guys that screw up somewhere else in the military that they put them all together which was called 
 bad company. See their job is to do all the dirty work for the americans in the war agaisnt russian 
 and the mercenaries. As you find out these mercenaries are a private military force that are know 
 legionnaire that conducts business that involves gold. With alots of gold in the region your outfit 
 eschews duty and goes awol and gets into the gold hunting business. The game tells you most of 
 its presentation of the story with clever dialogue, great voice acting, terrific visuals effects 
 and cutscense. 
  
  But before i go on i will interoduce you the characters that will be in your outfit during the 
 game. As you already know you meet three interesting characters in the game, each of them has their 
 own job which makes the outfit more effected force during a gun fight. You play as marlowe the 
 new person that is sent to this outcast of misfit of a outfit to help fight in the war agaisnt 
 the russian. The first character you meet is redford which people in his unit calls him 'serges' 
 the second person you will meet is sweetwater hes more like the technical person in the unit. the 
 last person you meet is haggard he loves to blow up things and he enjoys it. Bad company manages 
 to feel like more of a battlefield game while still preseting a good story and mulitple objective 
 during your mission in many of the stages of the game. Battlefield gives the players the same feeling 
 of the large scale of the battle which other person person shooter games doesnt, by letting the 
 players travel distance part of the map to reach the objective. The game is mostly an wide-open 
 freedom game but with some extention, you can travel anywhere along the map but there are certain 
 areas where you can go into. Which is called the redzone, if you manages to get into the zone the 
 game gives you an 5 second timer that will pop up and if you havent reach out the red zone the 
 enemy artillery will kill you right way. The only freedom part of the game that i found interesting 
 was the extention of your tactical option throught the game, which contrains large number of weapons 
 which you can find on dead enemies or laying around a half blow-up house. The player can have two 
 types of weapons 
  which is the primary and secondary weapon, one can be a sniper, michine gun that is mounted with 
 a gerade luncher. The secondary weapons you can choose from a pistol, c4 explosives, lazer, a artillery 
 remote so on. The game gives you alot a ammo throught all the stages which gives the player plenty 
 of opportunites to blow up everything in site. 
  
  Which what i think that makes this game so much fun to play giveing the toys cause major destruction 
 on a building or a enemy vicheles. Many of its destruction of bad company comes over to the mulitplayer 
 side of the game. The online part of the game gets on the traditional side of the other battlefield 
 games. Presenting the online user with many of its classes that you can play as. Like its half 
 brother call of duty it lets you update certain things that you can have, switch weapon, speical 
 kind of toys that can cause destruction to buildings and vecheles. The classes between call of 
 duty and battlefield are meaningful and interesting but it can only go so far with battlefield 
 that you dont really need any of the updates for many of the classes. The online mode presents 
 only kind of mode is called gold rush, which is different from its standard online game conquests. 
 Each player is assigned to attack or defender roles, the attacker trys to destroy the gold crates 
 and the defender trys to protect the gold cates as long as possible until the time is out. I find 
 this mode more interesting and much more of a struggle to win with an open area vehicle base playplay 
 on online. If you have played the game online with vicheles the controls are still very hard and 
 gets some time to use for other then that you can hide in houses or bushes to killed or knife someone 
 for your own entertainment reasons. Of course it wouldnt be a battlefield without the ranks matches, 
 with rank matches you earn expericence points that will grant you additional ranks which will unlock 
 certain weapons for each classes.
  
  Bad company is one of those games that can be pick up and enjoyed for everyone. it looks great, 
 the characters are fun, and alot of interesting weapons that can be use to destroy things with. 
 The online mode can use a little bit more work with the inpact of its weapon up close and the knifing. 
 but other then that the game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicAgent
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The latest game in the venerable Battlefield series is fun to play but also something that makes 
 you wish the developers didn't do some of the stuff they did. First off, the game can be very fun 
 online, with many creative ways to kill players. Using your knife allows you to keep the player's 
 dog tags as souvenirs and its always a great thrill to bring down a heavy tank with a missile launcher. 
 
  
  But the main drawback is the fact that you can only talk to the up to three other members in your 
 "squad". Multiplayer games are 12 v 12 but each team is divided into up to three squads so it can 
 be difficult to find other players to talk to with voice. This is something every other shooter 
 on Xbox Live has been able to avoid and it's a shame its like that here. 
  
  The campaign is not very good so unless you want to go for a high gamerscore for this game and/or 
 you have Xbox Live you may not want this game. The story mode doesn't have a very good plot and 
 you just don't really have a true feeling of battle like in Call of Duty 4. 
  
  In the end, this game is fun and provides a different experience than Call of Duty 4, but with 
 the squad segregation and lackluster single player, this game is just good not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gretzky1106
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Battlefield: Bad Company. I bought my copy at a Best Buy store in New York 
 and used a 10% coupon my dad got for it. I paid $63 as a result (I got the Gold Edition.) The graphics 
 are great. Overall, it makes for an excellent (if not perfect) game. It is a bit underated. And 
 it rots in some parts. Here are my opinons:
  
  Pros:
  Destructible Enviroments
  Great Multiplayer The Dog Tags from Knife Kills online
  Wide selection of guns to choose from 
 
  
  Cons:
  Short Single Player Campaign
  Photos you take can only be viewed on EA's website
  Buggy at times
  No Parachutes
  Conquest 
 mode needs to be downloaded.
  
  WoooooooooooooT WoooooooooooT WooooooooooT WooooooooT WooooooooT WooooooooT WoooooooooooT WooooooooooT 
 WoooooooooooT WooooooooooooT WooooooooooooT WoooooooooooooT WoooooooooooT WooooooooooooT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iWREKK
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  This is my first battlefield game, and i am very impress with gameplay... its very destrucitive 
 witch is a good thing, thats wat got my attention on the game with all the destructiveness. Me 
 personally IMA COD4 guy (9th prestige, no need for 10th =D.... i really dont think that COD4 OR BATTLEFIELD 
 IS BETTER THAN ONE ANOTHER. They both have their strentghs and weaknesses.... the only thing i hate 
 is wen your teammate is a support dude and he sees a health icon blinking on your name and he doesnt 
 give u health..... because your health doesnt go up on your own u either have to be a support class 
 or hope that a support player is on your team..... so wat i do is jump up and down like for 8 seconds 
 in his face and if he doesnt get the picture then i knife him and and throw a health kit on him (HERES 
 SOMETHING FOR THE PAIN) LOL..... another thing thats pretty bad is the DOG TAG LAG.. its wen you 
 have to many dog tags from knifing a lot of people, if u have to many then u will lag out of the 
 game or u will lag untill you reset your console... but other than that BF BC got two thumbs up 
 for me with a rating of 9... ITS NOTHING LIKE BLOWING UP A HOUSE =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best most realistic FPS i have ever played. An instant classic and just 
 way too much fun. The game gets addicting very quickly. 
  
  The story mode is great. Not too long but not too short either. It gives you enough of what you 
 want and the "GOLD" and "COLLECTIBLES" throughout the game make it even more interesting. Not out 
 in the open where you can stumble over them. They make you look for them. 
  
  The online gameplay is in a league of its own. Though a little limited with the game types (gold 
 rush and now conquest) you get a little bit of everything with the game types. It is very tactical 
 and the worlds are destructible so you can forge the map to your advantage.
  
  Overall I think this is one of my favorite games and is beyond fun. The only thing that would make 
 it better is if you could have more than one person playing on the same XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave425
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game to me is almost perfect its not so hard you cant injoy it but its not to easy at the 
 same time. the only problem i have with the game is that its short and you cant lay down. But the 
 best thing about bad company is the multilayer hands down. when your online there almost nothing 
 you cant do and the stealth is insane if you sit in a bush your hidden. i think this is a game that 
 almost any one can injoy no madder who they are. One other great feature about this game is the 
 vehicles Therese tanks, helicopters, hummers, doom buggy's , and boats that you can drive. Another 
 good thing about this game is the classes theres a wide variety of classes you can be such as  
 and support. each one of these classes have different wepons that you can chose and you can unlock 
 new weapons for each class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phtartist9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Nothing more to say but it is a good game. Good story line, and not a short story.
  
  Your choice of Fire arms is excellent also. You can pick up ammo and guns. The Germans had different 
 types of weapons typical to their German design. There are special guns to find on each level.
 
  
  What you need for certain scenes are usually in the vicinity. Sometimes its a hard choice between 
 the weapon you want and the weapon or explosive you need. I sometimes took an explosive, did the 
 job and went back for my weapon. Trucks and tanks are readily available so traveling back was usually 
 easy. This game I rated addictive because it was just plain fun!
  
  Gold, you are looking for gold! The gold is not easy to find. There are marks on the map where 
 there are special items, but the gold is not marked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegkyGolod
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  It`s too good to be bad. Story and crispy jokes are grate. Gameplay good too. But too good for 
 AI dummies. Not bad 4 console shooters. It`s too good to be bad. Story and crispy jokes are grate. 
 Gameplay good too. But too good for AI dummies. Not bad 4 console shooters. It`s too good to be 
 bad. Story and crispy jokes are grate. Gameplay good too. But too good for AI dummies. Not bad 
 4 console shooters. It`s too good to be bad. Story and crispy jokes are grate. Gameplay good too. 
 But too good for AI dummies. Not bad 4 console shooters.
  It`s too good to be bad. Story and crispy jokes are grate. Gameplay good too. But too good for 
 AI dummies. Not bad 4 console shooters. It`s too good to be bad. Story and crispy jokes are grate. 
 Gameplay good too. But too good for AI dummies. 
  Not bad 4 console shooters. It`s too good to be bad. Story and crispy jokes are grate. Gameplay 
 good too. But too good for AI dummies. 
  Not bad 4 console shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan389
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  When I got the game I realized that there is no real reason to be careful with your life because 
 you can heal yourself as much as you want with the auto-injector, and even if you just suck and 
 die there is no penalty for it. You just get revived at last checkpoint with the same weapon and 
 amount of ammo and the enemy's haven't re-spawned. The difficulty spikes around the ending by put 
 you against 5 tanks a helicopter and around 20 infantrymen and not giving you enough rockets or 
 enough ammo to destroy them all. Bad Co. was by no means bad, just average. I have seen better, 
 but you could do a lot worse. /disregard my number rating. I don't rank by number because I don't 
 think a complexed opinion can be represented numerically.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, x x,,,,,,,,,,
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: try122583
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  First of all, the fact that DICE didn't include conquest mode in the initial release of the game, 
 and the fact that they weren't planning on releasing it at all, might be one of the dumbest events 
 in gaming history. That is like Madden not including a football game, and solely sticking with 
 training camp mode. 
  
  Thanks to all of those who played the beta and knocked some since into those guys. The addition 
 of conquest has made this game considerably better, and a lot more fun to play. 
  
  It took me a while to get use to this game after COD4, but once I adjusted, this game works out 
 very well. You have better player interaction with this game, where support guys can fix vehicles 
 are hand out med kits to squad members. I also love the demolition's rocket launcher being able 
 to lock on to a traced vehicle. Good idea.
  
  A great game for online play, and alright single player, but if your like me, you will spend most 
 of your time online and be happy with what you got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Cloud94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  When I first tried out the demo for this game, I was completely sucked in. The sound combined with 
 that kind of destruction is just terrific. But when I actually bought the complete game, it was 
 one of the best FPS I've played.
  
  The story of the game is very innovative and exciting, even though I was surprised that it ended 
 so quickly. But if you plan on playing on hard, you're still going to have to work for that pot 
 of gold. 
  
  The vehicles for the game are really made as good as they could be. They really pack lots of power 
 and speed, but still don't make it to easy to get away without blowing yourself up.
  
  When you find yourself with some of the greatest weapons, like a mortar strike, a SVV sniper rifle, 
 or a SCAR assault rifle, you're really going to enjoy killing those annoying enemies hiding behind 
 a fence or in a tank
  
  The only downsides with this game is that the story is a little short. The story itself is great, 
 I only hoped for some more from it. The game is hard, but i think they could have inserted an even 
 harder level, just to challenge the real professionals. Also when you're fighting off giant hordes 
 of enemies, you're pretty alone about it since your squad barely does anything to kill them. If 
 you put a squad mate in front of an angry Russian reloading a RPG, he's not going to do much about 
 it, you're just going to shoot for him. The only squad mate of use is Haggard, all thanks to his 
 rocket launcher. Can really save your ass when you don't know how to get rid of a tank. But you 
 will still enjoy the company and the dialogues with them. 
  
  If you enjoyed games such as COD4, you're really going to enjoy blowing up houses and ambushing 
 you're enemies. So if you' haven't bought it yet, I'd recommend you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Not much happened this summer, just like every summer. E3 came and went and got me all pumped up 
 for games I won't touch for months (or even nearly a year) , I got caught up on many of the games 
 I missed out on, and even got a tan. I'm not a student, so truthfully there is not such thing as 
 a summer vacation, but I really feel that, for the most part, the video game industry takes a break 
 in summer. Metal Gear Solid 4 was good for PS3 owners that happen to be MGS fans, but what about 
 the other people? The answer: this game. Hurry and rent/buy it now so you can appreciate it before 
 you get bum-rushed in September!
  
  The first thing I noted was that it looked like a Call of Duty 4 clone (except with a Teen rating, 
 and trust me, it stretches Teen about as far as it can go!) . It kinda is, save the fact that the 
 AI isn't all that bright and often finds itself standing still, even on the hard (est) setting (which 
 is all I really ever play on FPSers) . What is different is that we've lost infinite respawns (hate 
 that) , we control our healing factor (sort of) , and we get vehicles! I found most of the vehicles 
 fun, but the chopper was just too hard to control for me to even care (try it for the first time 
 on multiplayer and hear your room start to crack up as they watch you attempting to fly) . We also 
 get humor, which creates a wonderful contrast to Call of Duty 4. Where Call of Duty 4 slapped you 
 across the face with realism and made war truly seem like hell, Bad Company creates a narrative 
 that will crack you up again and again, removing most of the seriousness of the situation (as a 
 summer game, great choice) .
  
  The Battlefield games are always attacked for their lack of true single player, and I think this 
 is a great first attempt at a narrative. The story is solid, funny, and comes together. While the 
 hardcore gamer in me didn't like the fact that when you die you go back to a checkpoint and everyone 
 you killed stayed dead, the "having fun" gamer in me loved this. It was just plain fun and complemented 
 the whole "summer fun" game that is Bad Company. The story ends and you're almost sorry it did, 
 but don't worry, with collectibles and gold searches, you have plenty of reasons to replay it (that 
 and you don't get the easier setting achievements when you beat a level on hard) . 
  
  The multiplayer leaves a little to be desired at first, but again, it's just fun. The chatter can 
 be anywhere from light to heavy (even on a 360) and often times the players are laid back. I accidentally 
 blew up one of my own tanks (an issue that is consistent for new players as you'll be offing your 
 teammates in record numbers) , but instead of people freaking out, hating on me, or quitting, I 
 got a polite (along with a snicker) "it's all good!" Maybe it's because we don't have any of the 
 clans or that the multiplayer follows the theme of the single player, but it was a great experience. 
 Learning new maps and the scope of a game where you can be a lone wolf soldier or pilot a super 
 strong tank allows for plenty of versatility.
  
  In the end, this game is just fun. Forget beating it as a goal, forget being bored, and really, 
 with no respawning enemies, forget being frustrated. This game is just damn fun and can be played 
 on various scales. If you've missed this game, it's worth at least a rental. If you're a shooter 
 fan who's tired of the clans owning COD 4 and Halo 3 is just no longer your thing, the solution 
 is in Bad Company. Hardcore players may find this a quick playthrough and parents may not trust 
 the teen rating for the content (and TONS of s-bombs) of this game, but it's the safest FPSer to 
 start your teen on! I recommend this game to all and it's probably the best $60 you can spend in 
 this summer's releases. Sadly, I see the multiplayer dying very quickly once Gears 2 and Resistance 
 2 make their November appearances, so get on the band wagon while you still can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  The grphics in bad company are hard to describe. They sometimes look realistic and then also sometimes 
 looks cartoony. They are kinda grainy but it isnt a big deal at all.
  
  Sound 
  The sound is not perfect. Its akward espesially if you have surround sound... like me :D everything 
 sound like its the same volume. Music isn't drowned out by explosions, guns all sound the same 
 (at least their classes)
  
  Singleplayer Gameplay
  The singleplayer is mediocre, but strangely fun. It's action packed but not very epic. The writing 
 is off and the jokes aren't always funny. It's also not hard, even on the hardest difficulty.
 
  
  Multiplayer Gameplay 
  The multiplayer almost single handedly saves this game. It's addictive and fun. The combat is fast 
 and furious and working as a team actually pays off. The destructible evrioronments add new tactics 
 and snipers can be INVISIBLE. Seriously not kidding, I went a whole round of gold rush without 
 dying or even being spotted.
  
  Story
  The story is forgettible. What was I talking about again?
  
  Anyway buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipervvviii
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I was browsing the Marketplace for demos, and figured I'd try Bad Company. After the download, 
 I hit Multiplayer to see what the competition was like. I grabbed an M4 Carbine, which was modified 
 for H&K sights, an extended mag, and an M203 underslung grenade launcher. I jumped in a Humvee, 
 found a bad guy, popped some rounds off, and instantly I was back at the range. I believe I uttered 
 something close to "wow." The recoil and sounds of the weapons in the game are very realistic.
 
  
  The singleplayer is alright, more of a half-hearted attempt at pleasing the guys that don't have 
 Xbox Live gold. The enemies don't present much of a challenge to smart players, just waves of armor 
 and infantry, maybe tougher armor and infantry on Hard.
  
  The multiplayer is where it's at in this game. BF: BC offers maps that are sure to please everybody, 
 even you guys who like Shipment 24/7 servers. The game mode Gold Rush was a mistake, I believe. 
 EA overestimated the average player's skill to attack, and thus the game is imbalanced in the defenders 
 favor. Conquest, which is thankfully out now, is tried and true, offers different versions of the 
 maps you already know, but fewer maps overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corvan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Well first off I have to say that I am a battlefield fan, BUT I really must stay true about my 
 opinions of this game.
  
  You play as Preston Marlow, a solider who was almost locked up for a rather interesting Helicopter 
 stunt. You join up with Bad Company Meeting Redford, Sweetwater and Haggard. The good thing about 
 the single player is thae comedy between Sweetwater and Haggard. Very funny at times and I simply 
 loved their comments. Even Haggard got to say "You and what Army!" 
  
  The down side of the game though is the A. I. There are times in the game were the enemy will catch 
 a small snip of your head and suddenly unload round after round into you. Other times the enemy 
 will see you right in front of them and not do a dang thing. Basicly its either they have x-ray 
 vision, or they are Doonie the Retard strong. Which can make some moments very frustrating.
  
  
  Another one, would be the some of the graphical flaws in the game. I once saw a metal post 
 go flying into the air from simply being nugde with a truck.
  
  
  The multiplayer I must say is the must frustrating Online shooter ive played sense Counter Strike. 
 Don't get me wrong though, I love playing online shooters, but the limit of four man teams and 
 no way to communicate with the rest of your 24 man team? Just stupid in my book. Communication 
 is the biggest part in a Shooter game and when your on a team and not one of them has a mic or 
 is to afraid to chat, its just annoying. Also in multiplayer there are some major lag issues at 
 times as well as graphical problems in the game. 
  
  
  The Single player is a good start for the console side of BF but with the A. I issues there can 
 be at times some annoyances. The Multiplayer is very frustrating at times with the guys who sit 
 and camp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  There were only a few things that stopped this game short of being a ten, but they weren't enough 
 to stop it from being one of the most fun games to come to this genre in a long time.
  
  Graphics  Perfect in some areas, so-so in others. The character modeling was nicely done, and 
 the environments were well laid out. The unfortunate part is that they tended to be repetitive. 
 Each town, although different, just so happened to have the same building layouts, with the same 
 rooms, doors, etc. This made searching through towns not only repetitive, but confusing at times 
 because I was constantly thinking, "Wasn't I here a minute ago?" On the other hand, the ability 
 to destroy buildings piece by piece was absolutely amazing. One bomb drop didn't just flatten the 
 building, but each shot combined to take down walls and ceilings until their was nothing left but 
 rubble. 
  
  Gameplay  They did a great job of mixing it up and the feeling of pure devastation at your fingertips 
 was in my opinion the best part of the game. Rolling up to a town in a tank, sitting back for 15 
 minutes and completely leveling the whole city was incredible. This could become tedious if it 
 was the only option, but it wasn't. Depending on ones mood, you could either level the town from 
 a distance, or walk straight in and experience some close combat. Although the AI was somewhat 
 intuitive, the fact that I launch a tank missile and blow up an enemy, but his buddy who is 200 
 yards away is still doing his rounds is a bit off. The fact that an enemy could do damage to my 
 tank with a standard rifle or machine gun but I needed either a missile or bomb strike to do any 
 damage to theirs was a bit off as well. 
  
  The weapons were standard, and unfortunately the ability to discover "rare" weapons did absolutely 
 nothing to improve the game. IMHO, if I find a "rare" weapon, it should probably be a bit better 
 than the standard. In this case, I played nearly the entire game with the standard M-16 and Sniper 
 rifle. Using the device that called in friendly fire airstriks was absolutely priceless, and again, 
 the feeling of pure devastation was only a click away. Unfortunately, if one chose to do so, they 
 could play the entire game with this weapon and never get touched. It was my choice, but I played 
 entire levels without ever firing a shot with a gun. But what wasn't my choice, was my company 
 and teammates. Sure they were funny, and I did laugh at some of the slapstick comedy, but to be 
 honest, they took away from the game in the long run. First off, they ran around on their own, 
 and when I was trying to sneak up on a town or group of enemies, they would just go running up 
 and blow my cover. No worries, because they took no damage!! This fact alone took this game from 
 a 10 to a 9 because my team could stand in direct fire and get pelted by rifle fire and do nothing 
 but say "that hurts!" At times the robot like voiceovers were completely off and I had to mute 
 the game several times because of "light tank, take cover!" was being yelled over and over and 
 over, when there wasn't a tank in sight. So aside from being amusing at times, my "bad company" 
 did nothing to add to the game.
  
  Storyline  Ok, and again, funny at times, but there was never a point where I felt that the storyline 
 really mattered in the game. Don't get me wrong, it was well played out, and the retrospective 
 analysis of the main character was a great way to tell a story. But what I am still trying to figure 
 out, is why I went through all the trouble to search and search and search again for gold barswhy? 
 I was expecting perhaps a different ending, or maybe some bonus for replay, but nothing.
  
  Overall  From a pure fun perspective this game was an absolute 10. But the other limitations took 
 an easy 10 down to a very respectable 9. If they come out with a sequel and address some of the 
 repetitive nature of this game, make some AI upgrades, and perhaps add some leveling or character 
 upgrades, this could be an unbelievable new series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buenosdiaz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Dice is one of the best developers in the business. And this latest game in their award winning 
 franchise proves it yet again. The Swedes behind BFBC bring the best of their PC franchise to consoles. 
 The boys of Bad Co, Sarge, Sweets, Preston and of my favorite - Haggard come together for a fun 
 and solid single player adventure. But even better is that it's backed up with AAA online multiplayer 
 action. The Frostbite engine is legit. It is the best engine on the market, yes better than UE3. 
 It brings a level of Destruction unmatched in any other game. And it's not just eye candy. It add 
 a whole new level of tactical gameplay where buildings that start as hiding places dont stay that 
 way for long. More important are the big maps with cool vehicles makes Battlefield the best shooter 
 on Console. No doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabraswel5
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  If you feel like playing a game with amazing graphics and even more amazing sound this is an excellent 
 choice. If you feel like playing a challenging and engaging game don't bother playing this. You 
 have unlimited lives, meaning once you die you just respawn with everything you achieved already 
 still in effect. You get Unlimited health packs "wich is not so bad considering you do not get 
 health regeneration like 99% of all games today". Its not very tough at all though once you get 
 the air strikes. Typically You get shot, re spawn airstrike everything, die respawn airstrike more 
 than thats it. Its got some nice gun fights but you have to be willing to play fair because the 
 game has no difficulty. Shoot outs in the streets from building to building can be fun. Blasting 
 through walls makes for great gameplay. In the end though, i get the feeling this game was only 
 intended to be played online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rydeth
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Lemme start off with pros and cons
  
  Pros:
  You can blow alot of things up
  
  Cons:
  Horrendus achievements
  Crappy missions
  Lag...... BIG lag....
  Repetitive & boring 
 graphics
  High price tag
  Crap guns
  Crap story
  Failure to make a good game.
  All the other BF's (except for the PC ones were crap)
  This game is very bad.. just stay away 
 from it so you dont go blind looking at the cheesy graphics and effects.
  
  Please do everyone a favour and just dont buy it or support it in anyway way..... IT FAILS IN LIFE.
 
  
  
  Look below to see a bunny. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL
  FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL 
 FAIL FAIL FAIL
  FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Bunny ----------- () () 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidForce
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a very large step forward from EA DICE's original Battlefield games 
 from the series, but is this game any different? The answer is: Yes. Bad Company shows off the 
 best graphics of the series, lots of new cool-looking guns and other weaponry, and a trio of sarcastic 
 team-mates.
  
  You play as Preston Marlowe, a soldier who has just been recruited from the US Army. He is eventually 
 transferred to B-Company (which is also nicknamed "Bad Company") because he was caught joy-riding 
 in one of the Army's helicopters. He later finds out that the squad is full of misfits such as 
 Haggard, a gun-ho demo-expert who loves to blow things up, and Private Sweetwater who didn't think 
 he would actually have to fight the enemy and then there's Sgt. Redford, who is the first, (and 
 probably the only) soldier who actually wanted to be transferred to B-Company because the US Army 
 would shorten his military career, despite the fact that B-Company has the highest mortality rate 
 in the whole army.
  
  When they are assigned a mission, they find a group of mercenaries which have been sent by a mysterious 
 villain called "The Legionnaire". When Sweetwater tells the group about a rumour that he always 
 pays the Legionnaires with gold bars, Haggard checks the mercenary and finds a solid gold bar. 
 Later on, on another mission, the B-Company view mercenaries leaving their posts and retreating 
 to their trucks. When a gold bar falls from one of the trucks, the squad's quest for gold begins.
 
  
  The story mode gives you a healthy amount of missions for you to complete in each level. The weapons 
 are brilliant and the way you replenish your health buy using an Auto-Injector is pretty unique 
 and cool since you stab yourself with it and your health comes rushing back to you, (just don't 
 run into a tank straight afterwards since it takes sometime until the Auto-Injector replenishes 
 itself and then you can use it all over again.)
  
  The game also includes a sandbox feature. If you are not familiar or have no idea what the term 
 "sandbox" means in the gaming world, Sandbox is a software program used in open-world games such 
 as Assassin's Creed, GTA IV and Burnout Paradise. Battlefield: Bad Company is really, really big. 
 EA DICE realised that you can easily get lost in this game so they highlight all of your objectives 
 with a subtle red triangle.
  
  But it is the small things in this game which draws the game back from its true potential. For 
 example, the Auto-Injector, even though you get an achievement for stabbing yourself 50 times, 
 it gets quite repetitive since you are stabbing yourself numerous times and waiting for the injector 
 to "reload" itself. The storyline isn't as exciting or exhilarating as Call of Duty 4, but it does 
 pretty well to meet most of its standards. The environments are beautiful but the whole game has 
 a weird, film-grain look which some people may find distracting. But because the game is so action-packed 
 and the visuals are so good anyway, it is hard to notice most of these drawbacks.
  
  Overall, Battlefield: Bad Company is a brilliant game, which sucks you in, the visuals are excellent, 
 it has brilliant voice-acting which isn't over-the-top (well at least not all of the time) , the 
 weapons handle well and the vehicles are fantastic, the ability to actually listen to the radio 
 when you drive a car is pretty funny too. Despite the small annoying things that could have been 
 improved on, Battlefield: Bad Company is an excellent game, and the best so far in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielcliment
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  sorry, i tried and tried to like it... but at the end, it was to much, the graphics and the destructible 
 environment is darkened by the blurry and zero crisp graphics, the sound effects are super annoying, 
 having "people" screaming in russian all the time in a random ridiculous way, when you play on 
 line you should ALWAYS have the option to NOT see the enemy on the map all the time, so you end 
 up chasing red spots all over the place... absurd! after playing halo 3, or call of D 4, we where 
 all waiting anxiously for this game, is every one fantasy to blow things away, we love that in 
 deed... but c'mon! is like having this fog all the time, aiming is harder that climbing mount everest 
 naked, scrolling weapons can be confusing specially in the heat of the battle.
  Is a confusing, blurry, and non fluid game... we hope for a next one (more contrast and focus, 
 please) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield series started six years ago with Battlefield 1942. Since then, there have been 
 five Battlefield games, including 1942, Vietnam, Battlefield 2, Modern Combat, and 2142. None of 
 them had a good single-player but a fantastic multi-player. Battlefield Bad Company fixes the single-player 
 problem.
  
  In single-player, you actually get a story now, it revolves around B-Company, also known as Bad 
 Company. Bad Company is filled with all of the misfits of the army. You play as Preston Marlowe, 
 who just got sent to Bad Company for a reason not revealed in the game, but a quick read of the 
 instruction manual will tell you what happened. There is also Haggard, Sweet water (spelled differently 
 for censorship purposes) and Sarge. Single-player lasts about as long as you would expect for a 
 first-person shooter. It is pretty easy though. It doesn't get very challenging at all until you 
 hit Hard mode, which I have heard people compare to Hardened for Call of Duty. The reason for the 
 easy difficulty? A respawn system that can easily be taken advantage of.
  
  Say you drive around and you see that it's saving. As it's done saving, you can drive forward and 
 run over everything you can, get killed, and will respawn in the car, with all damage you caused 
 in-tact. This makes it ridiculously easy to get through what should be hard parts in the game. 
 Also, you get a auto-injector which heals you and has a quick cool down time. You will be using 
 this a lot.
  
  However, all the cons aside, it is an enjoyable single-player. It takes itself light-heartedly, 
 which is very nice to see in a war game, and the destructible environments make for some tough 
 moments in this fairly easy campaign. Also, the single-player achievements are pretty easy, they 
 just take time to complete. I got all 610 GamerScore with a couple of weeks.
  
  Now, for multi-player. They have two modes in Battlefield Bad Company, Gold Rush and Conquest. 
 Conquest they might include in newer games, I'm not sure, but you might have to download it off 
 the marketplace, but it's free.
  
  In Gold Rush, you are either a defender or attacker. If you're a defender, your job is to defend 
 gold crates so that the attackers don't get any more reinforcements. Your job as the attacker is 
 to destroy all eight gold crates (they must be destroyed two at a time before the next two can 
 be revealed) before your reinforcements run out. You get more reinforcements for each base (or 
 two crates) you destroy. The problem with this mode is that the defenders have a huge advantage 
 over attackers, as they basically just have to stay near the crates, while the attackers have to 
 be very strategic. If you get a good team though, you can win nevertheless. It is a very strategic 
 mode, and an original one, so it is definitely very fun to play.
  
  As for conquest, in each map there are five outposts marked with flags. You can either be the U. S 
 team or the MEC/Russian team (the MEC in some maps, the Russian in others) and you win by reducing 
 the other teams tickets (giant bars at the top of the screen) to zero. To do this you must have 
 at least three outposts. The tickets decrease faster if you have more, however. This mode is a 
 Battlefield classic, and it is still very fun. You will find that certain spots there are a lot 
 of enemies, so you might want to go around them to their back base *hinthint*. Anyway, it can get 
 strategic, but so much as Gold Rush, however, neither team has an advantage.
  
  In multi-player there is one major problem. No team chat. Instead, you're stuck with squad chat, 
 so you'll be chatting with three other people instead of the entire eleven other people on your 
 team. This can lead to lots of mishaps, so try to make sure you don't call a mortar strike anywhere 
 near a teammate or something like that. You could see your rep go down if you do.
  
  Overall, this is a FANTASTIC game to get you through the Summer. If you don't mind the minor flaws, 
 you can get through this game not wanting to stop. The destructible environments are a nice curveball, 
 as this means there is no cover. At all.
  
  Single-player: 7/10
  Multi-player: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Overall (Not an average) : 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riyad_94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I didn't think that DICE, being a developer that mainly specializes in multiplayer 
 games could pull this game off, but man was I wrong. The story is set in the near future where 
 a fictional war rages between the US and the Russian Federation. The story starts with Private 
 Preston Marlowe being transferred to "Bad Company" the US army's battalion of misfits and rejects, 
 for taking a joyride in a Helicopter. His squad consists of Private Terrence Sweet. water Private 
 George Haggard, and Sergeant Samuel Redford who surprisingly volunteered for Bad Company to shorten 
 his service despite the company's extremely high mortality rate. The squad accidentally stumbles 
 upon a mercenary during a firefight and finds a gold bar on him and the story unfolds from there.
 
  This game was extremely ambitious when it first surfaced, boasting about having an fantastic single-player 
 campaign while maintaining the multiplayer that the name "Battlefield" is famous for. But in the 
 end it delivered everything it promised. The story was solid and the multiplayer still very good 
 but with a special little extra something, the new graphics engine, "Frostbite". It promised having 
 completely destructible environments while still having all the things that Battlefield fans have 
 come to love. This was a bold move for DICE but it proved to be the main reason Bad Company became 
 famous for. With their famous slogan, "Why use a door when you can make one?" The engine also makes 
 great use of war sound effects. It seemed to me that I was in the opening scene from Saving Private 
 Ryan, with bullets whizzing past my head and the sound and look of the guns never looking this 
 good in a game. The explosions in the game are absolutely breathtaking and it seems like I was 
 in actual war. Lucky for me this game loves to poke fun at war and makes it seem like an unimportant 
 chore for the squad, but in a good way. One very distinctive one was when, Haggard, the "demolitions 
 expert" accidentally invaded a neutral country and started a huge heap of trouble for the squad 
 and the US.
  But the thing that really shines is the multiplayer. Having a vast array of vehicles and maps that 
 Battlefield fans will recognize the multiplayer is something that is must try. Unfortunately Bad 
 Company only shipped with one game mode which is Attackers vs. Defenders in which one team must 
 defend two crates filled with gold while the other team attempts to destroy the crates. Once the 
 crates are destroyed, more of the map is available to fight on with new crates appearing, along 
 with added reinforcement numbers. The attacking team has a limited amount of respawns to achieve 
 their goal of capturing the 3-5 gold stashes either by setting charges or simply destroying the 
 2 crates of gold at each base. The defending team has an unlimited amount of respawns available, 
 but their goal is to exhaust the attacking team's respawns. The game also implements 25 ranks similar 
 to Call of Duty 4 and Rainbow Six Vegas 2.
  All in all this game is something that has a little bit of everything but does everything well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SniperMC23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets start with the offline gameplay. The story mode is very easy. You have to play on the hardest 
 difficulty to have a challenge. Most of the enemies seem like they dont even know what a trigger 
 is. Every once in a while they will be like "What does this thing do?" and fire a couple shots 
 but miss by 20 feet. Other than that the story mode is pretty fun. On to multiplayer gameplay. 
 Some good things about the multiplayer mode are the vehicles, weapons, ranking system, and the 
 squad (which also has some disadvantages.) The vehicles are tough to kill and fun the drive. Unless 
 you are a sniper you get those binoculars then the tanks and dune buggy things are screwed. The 
 helicopter might take a little getting used to though to drive, but that is the funnest vehicle. 
 The weapons are just about like real life. The stats of the weapons are right on the nose. The 
 ranking system is cool because each time you rank up you get a new weapon (except for some ranks) . 
 But it is extremely easy to rank up. You can rank up in 3 to 4 games if you are good enough. The 
 squad is good because there are so many people in a game there would be so many people talking 
 you couldn't say anything. But, they should add a couple more people than they do in your squad 
 because then no one talks at all, i mean come on, you have to have some communication in the game. 
 The worst part about playing online is it is very repetitive. There is only 2 game modes and we 
 had to wait 2 months to get the second one. The maps are the right size size for the gametypes 
 but for conquest, maps dont have much for for sniping. Overall the game is fun until about 10-15 
 hours of gameplay including the story mode. After that you might as well just blows buildings up 
 instead of doing the same things over and over in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmcookie797
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Bad Company does not enhance the FPS genre in anyway but it sure makes it fun and appealing to 
 all types of players. When you have the ability to blow up every wall in the game I think that 
 is great gameplay. Also mowing down trees makes me feel like a freelance lumberjack. But seriously 
 destructible environments is a great edition to gameplay. Most types of cover will blow up with 
 a little help and that makes the game fresh a new. You the player can destroy the cover of your 
 enemy and the enemy can destroy your cover as the player. Online functionality is fun as well with 
 massive maps and squad based play makes for an enjoyable online experience. And who does not like 
 the look of gold it is shiny and expensive and makes any who owns a brick look like the dictator 
 of a nation. Nevertheless, the online play is enjoyable and the single player is immersive with 
 some quirks in the story, but there is fun to be had while playing Bad Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boostud
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  I've put off writing a review for this game because my initial impressions were kinda rough. There 
 are some things in the game that still bug me, but I've adapted and learned to work with them. 
 Let me just get the bad out of the way before I start talking about this game.
  
  Aiming and hitting your target is a pretty straight forward concept. But sometimes this game doesn't 
 think so. Accuracy of your bullets seems to be hit and miss sometimes. Once you adapt to this its 
 not so badbut it will frustrate you for awhile. Another thing that really got me worked up was 
 the enemy AI and spawning. The AI seems to be able to tell when your aiming at themnomatter how 
 far away you are. For example, your scoped in on a guy with your sniper rifle, there is no way 
 they can see you from where your at. You zoom in on him and he hides his head and won't come back 
 up. The minute you zoom outBAM!! There he is popping his head out again. It gets annyoing. There 
 was also multiple times that a enemy just appeared out of thin air while I was walking down a path. 
 One minute there is nobody standing there, the next second there is a guy inches in front of me 
 blasting me with his assault rifle. ANYWHOthats the dirt on the game. Things I learned to look 
 past. There is more positive than negative in this game.
  
  Now that we know what sucks about it we can move onto the goods. My favorite thing about this game 
 would have to be the destructible environments. Its about time we've been given a game with this 
 feature. It's 2008 and we've yet to see a game with fully destructible environments on the 'Next-Gen' 
 consoles until now. Its just plain fun when you know a guy is a in a building hiding like a cowardand 
 you just take him out along with the side of the building he's hiding so comfortable behind The 
 environments are HUGE.. seriously HUGE! You get to plan your attack and roll it out in any way you'd 
 like. The world is yours to use and manipulate as you please. It just gives you a whole new feeling 
 in a war game. Not bashing Call Of Duty at all, but the game is on rails. You don't really get 
 to be the one making the decisions.
  
  Another really great feature is the multiplayer. There is a great trophy system along with the 
 leveling up. There are also plenty of weapons for unlocking. (Just make sure to visit www. findallfive. com 
 to unlock a few more cool weapons.) I was ready to be dissapointed since there is only one mode 
 of play, but I have yet to get sick of it. Its called Gold Rush. Pretty basic concept. The one 
 team has a couple crates holding their gold. Your objective is to attack the enemy and blow up 
 their crates so you can get the gold, or just the opposite, protect your gold. As simple as it 
 sounds, its complete madness! I've put many hours into the MP side of Bad Company and I am not 
 dissapointed. As a matter of fact, its kept me from even opening my new copies of Heavenly Sword 
 and C&C3: Kanes Wrath. Between all the different classes, vehicles, unlockables, etcit just hasn't 
 gotten old at all.
  
  All in all, this is a great game. I don't think its necessarily for everyone, but if your up for 
 a good war game and some amazing multiplayer I wouldn't pass this one up.
  
  I give it an 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The world of battlefield has been around for quite some time and has seen conflicts raging from 
 World War II, to Vietnam, and even into the future. Bad Company takes place in a not to distant 
 future with forces from the United States, Russia and the MEC fighting amongst each other for control.
 
  
  BF: BC is the first in the battlefield universe to introduce a single player story, while not as 
 deep as one could hope for, offers more then enough thrills and laughs to keep you rooted to your 
 tv. You take control of a soldier named Preston, who's been transfered to Bad Company. He had a 
 'mix up' and due to his mistake was... well, play the story and you'll see. You fight in a squad 
 of four and fight in a number of locations. You'll soon learn throughout the campaign there is 
 more to the fighting then what meets the eye. Which results in a fierce chase after gold bars. 
 The single player is short and is on the easy side. Lasting only some hours, it leaves a good enough 
 impression to at least satisfy any destructive desires you may have. One thing that stands out 
 mostly about the single player is the fact failing at it is close to impossible. Regardless of 
 how many times you die, you simply respawn at the closet check point. Any enemies killed up to 
 your death... remain dead. Only on certain parts of the game, where you protect, or the helicopter 
 level can result in a game over. Single player is fresh, and enjoyable. But thats not where the 
 game shines.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game truly presents itself. Conquest, which was recently released adds 
 a fresh addition to the online experience. Gold Rush, the original mode plays as follows. Two teams, 
 one attacking and one defending, duel over gold crates. As attackers succeed in destroying gold 
 crates, defenders are pushed back into new bases, which usually results in armor or air support 
 being unlocked. Its rather simple to play. You receive points for all your actions, which helps 
 the player level up quickly in regards to other multiplayer games. For those who played past battlefield 
 games, conquest will be very familiar. Capture flag points while using tactics to run the enemy 
 tickets dry. The more you kill, the quicker your team will win. You'll play in squads of four on 
 either mode and be able to communicate with those other three members on your team. Team work is 
 important, so work together using the different classes to succeed. 
  
  Battlefield Bad Company is a fresh new look at the universe that battlefield has to offer. I highly 
 recommend it, for its rich multiplayer and single player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent audio visual presentation, fun loving characters, interesting story, lots of 
 weapons, addictive multiplayer
  
  The Bad: Not much different from other shooters, only one online mode, if you're tired of the FPS 
 genre this won't change your mind
  
  I never really got into the Battlefield games (mainly because my computer couldn't run them) , but 
 I've been intrigued by Bad Company since the first trailer was released. The game actually has 
 an interesting story and isn't your typical EA cash out. You play as the Bad Company who are army 
 rejects trying to earn their respect back and in the meantime are trying to steal mercenary gold 
 after becoming AWOL. While you follow the interesting, humorous, and wonderful loving characters 
 you are thrown into a cinematic and epic experience that is truly breaktaking. The game has amazing 
 graphics, but what I found more amazing were the sound effects. Just the way everything echoes 
 in buildings, the way chains clank and jingle, the way things explode, you can even hear distinct 
 sounds for different terrain. The game just sports amazing sound that go well with the visuals 
 so you won't be left dry in that department. The game is your typical FPS with infinite healing, 
 real world guns, lots of vehicles, and different types of terrain. Some weapons are a bit different 
 like the mounted ones. You get AA guns, mounted rocket launchers and so forth and they are all 
 fun to shoot. You can also use C4 to blow S up or use air strikes. Speaking of blowing S up the 
 game has completely destructible environments, so if you hit a wall with a tank rocket well the 
 wall comes off. This just adds to the realism and diversity of the whole game. The game is also 
 paced very well so you'll have sniper sections, run & gun sections, vehicle sections, then maybe 
 a special section with a mounted gun or something. You'll never get bored with the single player 
 and the game also has collectibles for you to find. Mind you, these collectibles are really hard 
 to find and kind of detract from the overall experience, but they are there for treasure hunters 
 and completists. Apart from the single player the game has very addictive multiplayer, but there 
 are downsides. There is only one game type and that's Attackers and Defenders. Attackers have to 
 destroy the defenders crates of gold with C4 too win, or the defenders have to destroy the attackers 
 base. The game has 24 players online so there is total mayhem with vehicles, mounted guns and so 
 forth. The game has an addictive ranking system for killing people. When you respawn you can choose 
 to either on base or next to an enemy soldier. There are many different classes to choose from 
 and they are all super fun to play depending on your mood. I really recommend Bad Company to any 
 FPS fan so what are you waiting for: Head for the Gold! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  First let me start off by saying that this is the best Battlefield yet. Dice's Frostbite engine 
 has this game looking amazing. Character models, environments, textures, and color palette all 
 look amazing. All this with a steady framerate make this one of the best looking games yet. I would 
 go as far as say it looks as good as COD4 and maybe even better. 
  Now as far as the gameplay, well it hold up perfectly. My only gripe would be the helicopter controls. 
 LB to descend and LT to ascend? Why not RT to ascend and LT to descend? Its a minor gripe though. This 
 time around the tanks also feel more like big strong dominant machines, as they push over trees 
 in their path making way to the battle. Another thing that I've noticed is that the colored dots 
 over players heads that show if they are friendly or enemy don't always appear in time, which results 
 in some dissapointing friendly kills.
  The sound work is brilliant also. Vehicles sound like they should and gunshots sound distinct as 
 they tear through buildings.
  This game in my eyes deserves a 9.5 and not a ten simply because of the sparse multiplayer maps, 
 which I'm sure will be available for download shortly. This is a must-have for FPS fans and I would 
 recommend it to anybody who is playing COD4 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. There's no doubt about it. It's not the most perfect shooter, but it'll get you 
 addicted right away.
  
  Basically half of the environment is destructive, the sound effects of the guns sound too real, 
 and the online multiplayer is good killing, explosive fun. 
  
  The campaign's story isn't all what it's cracked up to be: just a bunch of idiot soldiers that 
 fight in the US Army, not for survival, but for gold. 
  
  The multiplayer player however, is probably the most intense play I have ever seen: it's like a 
 tactical Call of Duty 4, without the "run n' gun" technique. All classes from the originals are 
 in this one too, so veterans will enjoy it even more. 
  
  The only self-complaint I can think of is that the sniper class is choosen too often, which makes 
 some multiplayers games annoying and boring most of the time, since no one will bother taking a 
 vechile or a tank for a test drive: in fact, some of the time, in an Attack-Defend game, players 
 will not even try to achieve their objective, and will only try to kill players and nothing more.
 
  
  Other than that, this game is much worth the cost and anyone whose played the original Battlefields 
 will love this too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield has always been one of my favorites. From way back when we were still playing the old 
 PC version of BF2 battlefied has always pushed up the standard a little (or alot) higher. Now in 
 my opinion the after Battlefield Bad company we will start to see more games with fully destructible 
 environments and a better squad system. 
  
  Ok Let me start with the good.
  -AMAZING destructable environment effects.
  -Great sound (echoing of guns inside buildings ect.)
 
  -As Always, great infantry and vehicle combat.
  -Good squad based gameplay.
  -Really cool music on the first level.
  
  Now to the bad.
  
  -Some people say that the 
 graphics are muddy, (I tend to disagree)
  -Lots of Spawn Killing.
  -ALL CLASSES NEED THE AUTO INJECTOR!
  
  But don't be stopped from buying it because of those 
 things! Great Game!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themeparkfreak1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is the third installment in the battlefield series and the best yet. The 
 campaign has you playing as one in a group of four guys who all have a criminal record. Instead 
 of jail they were sent to the military to fight in the squad called "Bad Company." It is an amazing 
 campaign that takes a good amount of time to finish. The levels are almost a 100% destructible, 
 and the audio is perfect. The multiplayer also is great. It has a ranking system like COD4 that 
 goes to 25, and you can earn credits to but thing like guns and extra supplies to use. There are 
 about 8 maps on multiplayer and each are great. Only bad thing is that there was only one mode 
 until last tuesday called attack and defend, but now there is a new mode called conquest mode. 
 Vehicle is also a great part of the game. There is tanks, cars, helicopters, and boats. Though 
 it is a little hard to get used to driving them. All in all if you don't own this game by now you 
 are crazy because this is the best new game of 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstamm33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield bad company is a special game. Its not your average shooting linear game. In Bad company 
 both the storyline and online multiplayer are entirely open and every decision is yours. If you 
 are more of a patient person you can sneak up and flank the enemy whilst sniping from a distance. 
 Or you can charge in shooting your grenade launcher left and right. Each mission is up to you. 
 On to graphics, the graphics in this game are simply amazing, every grain of dirt looks well done. 
 When your standing next to a wall when it blows up, the shock factor is amazing. The sound and 
 sound affects are amazing and its one of the main strong points of the game. The animations are 
 great and the way that the teams work together online is a miracle. Some nice touches are definetly 
 that while sniping you have to "lead" your targets so they "Walk into your shot". And the destructable 
 enviroments make the game so much better in its dare I say it "ambiance". However this is one HUGE 
 reason to own a Xbox 360 or Playstaion 3. If you own one of these systems it is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-Master12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  If you like blowing up stuff and killing Russians, this is the game for you! You start out as Pvt. 
 Marlo or the new guy. You help out the U. S. forces until they abandon you as you start your search 
 for gold. You can be in many vehicles such as Helicopters, tanks, armored trucks and even golf 
 carts! You can easily blow through houses as you clear missions to get to the gold. Everyone believes 
 you are dead as you continue as you save your team mates, blow up bridges to occupy the U. S. forces. 
 You even have to destroy a Helicopter, this is a great, amazing game for the Xbox 360 and is worthy 
 of making Xbox 360 game of the year. It is a shooting game all Battlefield loves have to get. The 
 #1 reason I love this game is because you can demolish trees and explode buildings as you march 
 forward owning every territory. You have to look every for the gold that is spread all over the 
 place. It will take around 12 hours to get everthing done and it has a high replay value. It is 
 a superb game and is amazing. The only down thing about this game is the ending. It doesn't make 
 any sense of what's going to happen. But besides that it's a really great game and multiplayer 
 is fun to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobius-12
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  I will just say this right off the bat - the single player campaign is quite impressive. It has 
 a hilarious story that is fun to play and is the strongest part of this game. It may seem a little 
 difficult to some when you first play it, but with the auto-injector which heals you instantly 
 and the lack of a death penalty it's pretty well balanced. I honestly don't see any flaws with 
 it, other than the fact that it would have been easy to make it a co-op campaign, but it's still 
 awesome.
  
  Now on to multiplayer. This is what made the battlefield series, this is what it's known for. But 
 some design and execution flaws make the multiplayer a little "quirky". 
  
  The biggest issue is the lack of team chat. Why they would leave out team chat on a tactical objective 
 game that requires teamwork I have no idea, but it's just stupid. Instead you can only communicate 
 with your squad of 4, and most people don't even talk in that game, again, I have no idea why. 
 You can only invite up to 3 other friends to play with you in your squad too, which is also pretty 
 bad.
  
  A lot of the weapons on Bad Company's multiplayer are unbalanced too. The assault classes have 
 a pathetic excuse for a grenade launcher. I mean, what kind of grenade launcher can't kill some 
 one in one hit? I know people will think as me of "Lawlz n00btube user", but if you got hit by 
 a giant piece of metal moving at high speed that explodes on impact, do you think you would live 
 to tell the tale? Some of the shotguns have a ridiculous range and can kill you with one hit from 
 30 feet away before you even knew they were there. One gun for the Special-Ops class, or Specialist 
 in Bad Company, is the single most overpowered weapon in the whole game. It's hard to explain, 
 you have to just see it for yourself. But who knows? Maybe a few patches will fix the game...
 
  
  The online community itself is pretty bad. I know it's not the developer's fault for that, but 
 when it comes to multiplayer it's all about the online community. In the new game mode "Gold Rush", 
 which is basically an attack and defend gametype, most of the attackers, well, don't attack. They 
 sit back with snipers trying to get a good K/D ratio while their team is losing. People teamkill 
 each other for vehicles and equipment ( I've seen it in other battlefield games but it's still 
 a flaw ) . I hate to be insulting but a lot of the players in this game are just dumb. So many where 
 it actually affects the game experience. If you don't believe me browse the Xbox. com forums under 
 this game and see for yourself.
  
  Overall the game is decent. Multiplayer could use some work but Singleplayer is fun. The new Frostbite 
 engine with it's destructible environments and amazing audio quality make the game alive. But the 
 game is very different from other battlefield games when you play it. I honestly don't even think 
 it deserves the name Battlefield Bad Company, it should have just been called Bad Company or something 
 like that. Believe me, if you are getting this game to complete your Battlefield collection, DON'T!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowNinja727
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  excelent game it has everything humor ,action, its a game worth getting .you play as marlo, the 
 newest recruit to Bad Company. drive, pilot, walk, run, and swim your way threw the different and 
 unic levels. Also find collectable weapons and even gold bars. The online play is a blast earn medals 
 and awards and after u use your knife to kill somone u get there dog tags as a souviner with there 
 gamertag on it. i garentee that there will be somthing for everyone. My favorite part of the game 
 is well its all pretty good but its fun when ever haggard talks he is so funny and he will surely 
 put a smile on your face if u die or what ever the game is just the right diffuculty not to hard 
 not to easy just right. Also with the new conquest mode for online play it is even more fun it 
 is capture the flag but if u have already memerized the maps it dont matter the maps are all different. I 
 hope you guys have fun with this game because i sure did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrExplosives
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  WOW.
  where to start. Bad company has so many good things going for it that i really dont know where 
 to begin. with an amazing and hilarious single player mode, and battlefield's trademark multiplayer, 
 bad company definitely is THE game to own this summer, possibly (though probably not) of the year. 
 
  
  That being said, now about the game itself.
  
  The single-player was a blast to play, which is something i wish i could say about more games. 
 In a surprise twist, not only does a battlefield game finally have a story, it's actually FUNNY! 
 the levels are well designed, never letting you get bored of something before it throws something 
 new at you to play with. the checkpoints are spread liberally, and unlike similar game COD4, it 
 isn't as mean to you (as in, dosnt kill you at every mistake) on harder difficulties. BUT. while 
 i personally dont take offense to this, it hase the same respawn system as bioshock. basically, 
 every checkpoint is like one of whatever the thingies in bioshock were. as in, when you die, it 
 dosnt restart. you just move back. all the enemies stay dead, vechiles blown up, etc. not what 
 i was expecting. it's too bad they never got to put in co-op.
  
  on to the multiplayer. as of this writing, all that's out now is gold rush game mode. while it 
 CLAIMES to be new, it's just defend/destroy the base, that most have played before. the classes 
 are pretty well balanced, but the awards/etc. are not. many are purely ridiculous (52 kills in 
 a round-GAWD) , while otheres are, at present time, nearly impossible (how are you supposed to destroy 
 a helicopter of the same kind when on nearly every level, only one side gets one?) nevertheless, 
 it still suffers the same issues that other games have. i. e the guys that spend hours and memorize 
 everything get really good and the game inadvertently keeps them getting better, while the noobs... mostly 
 stay noobs. also, guns and unlocks are a little odd. most guns are basically identical to one similar 
 guns, and the unlockables aren't really that much more powerful than regular, non unlocked guns. 
 so there are no guns (yet) that are simply better than others. anyway, i've taken up too much time 
 anyway. i can hear my squadmates yelling at each other across the room. apparently the noobs couldn't 
 defuse a bomb that was completely unguarded. gotta run.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooglegeneral1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company puts you into the shoes of a man named Preston Marloh. You start off by 
 landing at a US military camp and its here that you meet your squad composed of three men: Sweetwater 
 who is the brainy guy of the bunch and always has something to say, Haggard who is a fullblown 
 redneck and the comedy relief thruought the whole game, and Redford, the squad seargent who keeps 
 the rambunxious squad in line.
  
  The game does a great job introducing you to the basic controls. they're not hard to learn and 
 once you get the hang of them you'll be taking down russians without a second thought. the variety 
 of weapons in this game is not as stacked as some other FPS games but it is large enough to change 
 up the gameplay and keep things interesting. you'll comand everything from RPG's, AA guns, and 
 Laser Designators to your basic stationary guns and assault rifles.
  
  Another great quality in this game is the vehicles. there are a variety of vehicles to command 
 including boats, armored cars and helicopters. Each vehicle has its ownperk whetehr is turrets 
 mounted ont he back or a 50 mm cannon jutting from the front. Control of these vehicles is smooth 
 and easy to get a hold of. You also have the ability to find a power tool and repair your ride 
 if it sustains any damage.
  
  Enemy AI in Bad Company is lacking at points but will offer a great challenge on harder difficulties. 
 There are a multitude of ways to handle them as well. you can charge in with a tank and blow your 
 enemies to kingdom come or you can covertly infilrtate an enemy camp and take out your objective.
 
  
  overall this game offers a somewhat different perspective on the FPS war genre but it does it in 
 a great way that I for one love. Many lines from this game have me chuckling even now as im thinking 
 about them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_zander
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Bad Company is very much the kind of army I could imagine Eurogamer inhabiting. Comprised of all 
 the ne'er-do-wells, workshy fops and insubordinates that you wouldn't even want on your paintball 
 team, we'd be the guys any sensible army would send out as cannon fodder to lull the opposition 
 into a false sense of security. Of course, what would transpire is that we were only pretending 
 to be shot-shy slackers, and, when put in life-or-death scenarios we'd rise to the challenge and 
 kick everyone's arse.
  
  Placed in this no-win situation in DICE's latest console-oriented take on the Battlefield series, 
 you find yourself filling the role of the improbably named Preston Marlow (no doubt inspired by 
 DICE's two favourite English branches of Little Chef) . This unassuming, down-to-earth rookie is 
 joined on his adventures by three rather clueless but usefully invincible Bad Company squadmates: 
 Sarge, Sweetwater and Haggard. Afforded precious little respect by your superiors, when things 
 don't quite go to plan, you and your knuckle-headed trio decide to chase a trail of mercenary gold 
 in the misguided belief that they'll be able to bag all this tasty loot for themselves.
  
  Set across seven sprawling campaign missions, the single player portion of Bad Company is an unexpected 
 treat. Building on the sense of open-ended freedom we've come to expect from the Battlefield series 
 for years, DICE has finally managed to distill all the good ideas of its multiplayer-focused titles 
 to often breathtaking effect. The key weapon in distinguishing Bad Company from the legion of samey 
 first person shooters is evidently its beautiful and versatile Frostbite engine. By offering the 
 level designers immense scope in so many areas, it's the first shooter to emerge in a long time 
 that demonstrates a significant evolution of the genre. 
  
  For a start, the pre-release boast about "90 per cent destructibility" isn't that far from the 
 truth. Not having paid an awful lot of attention to the hype, it was quite a shock to discover 
 that you can't simply duck behind walls, trees and other cover points and expect to be able to 
 hide from an incoming missile like you've been able to do in pretty much every FPS ever. In Bad 
 Company, the chances are that the tree you were hiding behind will fall on top of you, or building 
 you ducked into will be reduced to a hollow shell, while you peer ruefully through an enormous 
 cloud of brick dust and smoke to get your bearings and find your next tenuous cover point. This, 
 of course, has major implications when you're on the offensive, too. Finally, you can flush out 
 enemies from their sneaky camping positions, knowing full well that a well-placed grenade or rocket 
 will cause pandemonium. Gone are the days of ridiculously impregnable sandbags, fences and thin 
 brick walls, replaced by a much more physical environment that you can blow the crap out of.
  
  Just as significant is the Frostbite engine's ability to render vast, sprawling, vivid environments 
 that boast arguably the most detailed, convincing outdoor scenes on a console title to date. Significantly, 
 that famed Battlefield freedom has finally been translated into a coherent single player campaign, 
 where your choice of route can have a distinct bearing on your chances of success. Governed by 
 a linear succession of objectives, the route you take to get there can often be genuinely up to 
 you. Be it stealthily on foot, sniping everything from afar or storming the gates in a tank, you 
 simply use whatever hardware's at your disposal and set about taking down everyone in your way, 
 in whichever way you can. With gunships and motorboats occasionally upping the ante further still, 
 the moments when Bad Company is firing on all cylinders are thrillingly epic.
  
  Wisely, Bad Company never takes itself too seriously, either, avoiding the inevitable 'So Macho' 
 territory of four super-serious steroid-pumped leathernecked marine jocks Hooyah-ing their way 
 through another appallingly scripted journey into cliche-ridden tedium. Full of surprisingly warm 
 humour, you're never left in any doubt that this lot are in the Bad Company ranks for a very good 
 reason, though at no stage does the storyline descend into parody, either. It's a fine line that 
 DICE successfully negotiates. It's a fool's (gold) errand where the fun comes from seeing what 
 ludicrous scenario they can stumble upon next rather than yet another eye-rolling save-the-world 
 trudge into sterility.
  
  With so much experience of crafting Battlefield titles down the years, it's no surprise that everything 
 feels exceptionally polished. Whether you're steaming along in an APC, piloting a helicopter or 
 dodging tank shells in a speedboat, the handling is always intuitive and satisfying. Likewise, 
 the multitude of weapons feel (and sound) absolutely spot-on. In a genre so saturated of late, 
 it's the little things that often jar, but in practically every sense, Bad Company feels like the 
 product of a developer inspired to make something that pushes things forward.
  
  That said, in the process of making bold decisions, there are a few controversial choices that 
 DICE has made which might not gain universal acclaim. The most obvious is the curious, bold decision 
 to spawn players back into the single player game, as if you've got infinite lives. Evidently a 
 legacy of its multiplayer roots, there's an inescapable sense that you're cheating your way through 
 the game. Safe in the knowledge that you'll simply respawn a few paces back, you'll continually 
 chalk off a few enemies, get blown up and run back to continue the battle - except on a few time-sensitive, 
 mission-critical occasions when the game deems it necessary to enforce checkpoints if you fail.
 
  
  Near-instant respawning is a design decision which certainly cuts down on re-loading time (and 
 a fair amount of frustration) , but it does smack of an idea based on fixing a lack of balancing 
 than anything. The truth is, if the game didn't respawn you, it would be mercilessly difficult 
 and almost certainly very frustrating, so it's hard not to consider it a controversial decision. 
 Equally questionable is your ability to endlessly heal yourself by doing nothing more than injecting 
 yourself with some sort of magic potion. Fair enough, recharging health and endless medipacks are 
 an equally ludicrous game mechanic, but it does feel faintly bizarre to have to constantly press 
 L1/LB followed by the right trigger/R2 in the heat of battle. Frankly, given the option of a cheating 
 health restoring fudge, recharging health does the exact same job without constantly requiring 
 the player to juggle equipment when you'd rather have your weapon to hand.
  
  There's also a sense that the enemy AI isn't especially dynamic or adaptive - just irritatingly 
 accurate. Having completed the game on the hard difficulty setting, it's especially noticeable, 
 with enemies capable of picking you off with unerring accuracy the split second you move into their 
 line of sight from improbable distances (interestingly, the problem is still apparent on Medium) . 
 Somewhat disappointingly, there's never any evidence of teamwork on their part, with no big chases 
 ensuing, or surprise flanking - just a continual procession of entrenched enemy to pick off one 
 by one. Squad AI, too, is often noticeably inert, with frequent instances of your team mates failing 
 to take the initiative in glaringly obvious situations. Worse still, despite your squaddies being 
 specialists in different areas, there are a number of occasions when the game still forces you 
 to deal with situations that they would have logically dealt with. The sum total of this inherent 
 lack of flexibility is that the further you progress, the more predictable and transparent the 
 whole experience becomes. 
  
  Bad Company is still very entertaining if you take it at face value. It has a huge amount going 
 for it if you try not to think about it too hard, but you sense that the shackles still restrict 
 it from being a true single player representation of the mighty Battlefield experience. The most 
 obvious restriction is the way the game binds enemy behaviour to a tiny local zone, when the scale 
 and scope of these sprawling maps suggests the potential was so much greater. For now, though, 
 we must be content with the freedom offered by the immense destructibility, the removal of arbitrary 
 'corridors' funneling you through the game world, the choice of weapons and how you get to your 
 eventual destination, rather than how convincingly the game reacts to your actions.
  
  Needless to say, the game's multiplayer component removes many of these issues at a stroke, allowing 
 you to get stuck into a truly rampaging 24-player Gold Rush match. As detailed at considerable 
 length by Dan during the beta, the premise of defending or attacking crates of gold is riotously 
 entertaining, extremely lag tolerant and a huge amount of fun - largely as a consequence of the 
 sheer destructibility of the environment. Having dipped into a test server last week, and engaged 
 in some 'real-world' online action today, basically everything Dan observed in the beta still holds 
 true, so there's no need to go over old ground here. In summary, the savage fury of the experience 
 will either be very much a Good Thing, or something to send you scurrying for something a little 
 less chaotic. Personally, I had a lot of fun, but you can expect to die a lot in the process of 
 learning the ropes. 
  
  As is always the case with Battlefield games, the bewildering degree of choice available to you 
 in terms of vehicles, loadout and routes available to you presents an almost vertical learning 
 curve to the unwary, but comes into its own once you figure out a strategy and can rely on like-minded 
 team to figure out a strategy. Initial sessions are absolutely insane, and it's quite likely that 
 it'll remain that way for at least the first few weeks until a community builds up and begins to 
 figure things out. Later, remember, the Conquest will be downloadable for free, so there's plenty 
 to extend the lifespan of the game long after you're done with the Story mode and have had your 
 fill of the eight maps available in Gold Rush mode.
  
  Once you've experienced the various highs and lows that Bad Company has to offer, it feels like 
 an immensely polished, ambitious effort that will build up a strong following for all the right 
 reasons. The single player portion, while never less than hugely entertaining, stops short of true 
 greatness thanks to a few fundamental design shortcuts which offer easy health restoring concepts 
 seemingly at the expense of balanced AI. Some of this is irrelevant in the online mode, and the 
 profound implications of a massively destructible environment make it a unique proposition in online 
 gaming right now - albeit a riotous chaotic one. Riccitiello needn't have worried.
  
  I give it a 9.5/10 expecially for the distructable enviroment, and because I'm a fan since the 
 1942 series. So it''s a personal thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadExploder
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  To start, the only reason you would want to spend money on this game would be for the multiplayer. 
 It does, in fact, have a better multiplayer mode than most Xbox 360 games, and you'll find yourself 
 playing that and just that.
  
  The singleplayer is, to be quite honest, awful. Enemies are half blind and deaf, and have a tendency 
 to shoot at walls. The worst part is that your teammates are the same way. Aside from that, you 
 also have the ability to respawn. Yes, thats right, respawn in singleplayer. Need I say more? The 
 only reason you would want to go through the singleplayer is for the Achievements. Period. The 
 good part is that it doesnt take long at all to beat.
  There's no real story, and even though the game doesnt even really take itself that seriously, 
 the dialogue is kinda cheesy. However, the game does have very, very impressive sound affects. 
 No joke. The guns are the most realistic sounding than I've heard in any other game. The sound 
 also carries across levels and multiplayer maps, either cracking or sounding sort of muffled from 
 the distance. Thats the most impressive part of the game, I feel.
  
  With that said, the multiplayer is clearly the better part of Battlefield: Bad Company. The goal 
 you would set for yourself, like most military games with multiplayer, is to get to the next rank, 
 then the next, until you're maxed out in rank. Almost every rank, you unlock any weapon of your 
 choice, which is nice and also motivates you.
  
  However, for much of the time I played the multiplayer, the different classes you can choose from 
 (Assault, Demolition, Special, Recon, and Support) are very imbalanced. Not in the sense that the 
 classes themselves arent balanced (they actually are) , but its like, if you put a Support guy against 
 a Recon guy, the Recon guy will mostly win because his gun shoots faster, no other real reason. 
 
  Thats the only real big flaw with multiplayer, but it will have you contemplating playing Call 
 of Duty 4 instead, realizing that CoD4 really nailed balance between classes. Oh, and though the 
 guns do feel realistic, they are made to be fired fully automatic. even at long distance. Bursting 
 doesnt give you an edge like in most other game, which sort of takes away from the realism.
  
  Pros:
  Amazing sound
  Addicting multiplayer
  Somewhat realistic feeling guns.
  
  
 Cons:
  Awful singleplayer
  Classes are imbalanced when pit against eachother
  Somewhat unrealistic feeling guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mith19
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has some originality to it like destructible environments vehicles good weapons. the 
 pros (goods) for this game is destructible environments sand box warfare and good AI (artificial 
 intelligence) but the flaws (bads) for this game is sometimes your teammates don't help you and 
 your a one man army which is pretty easy but sometimes you'd like your teammates to help blow up 
 a tank and stuff like that also i would like to shoot through walls i would recommend this game 
 for gamers that have played past battlefields gamers that like call of duty 4 and just war gamers 
 the missions are super long they are 1 to 2 hours long it's amazing that the hole game is one big 
 map 
  and you uncover more of the map later on after missions one thing the game should of had was a 
 free play or offline mode like battlefield 2 just so you can fool around that would be a good mode 
 but the muiltiplayer is awesome sick whatever you say it's intense because you could be in cover 
 BOOM died no cover and a machine gun just mowing you down like that well thats my review hoped 
 you liked it bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurabh123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  I had not taken fancy to Battlefield 2: Modern Combat and so was pretty skeptical about a game 
 with the same title. The initial gamespot review changed my opinion a bit and a visit to the game 
 - store finally ended up in purchase of Battlefield Bad Company (they did not have RACE DRIVER 
 GRID that i wanted to buy and i was afraid of spending a day without anything to play with!)
  
  So finally i started BBC with average hopes. Believe me or not, the casting music was solidly 
 captivating and blew me away! I turned on my Dolby at 1.5 times the ear shattering sound to experience 
 every syllable of the beats. Its simply that awsum! With an escalating positive mind-set, i was 
 introduced to my 4 member in-game team as Pvt. Marlowe (or New Guy) who has been assigned to an 
 army division filled with castaways and scapegoats for the battlefield. The first few things that 
 will immediately strike you are:
  
  1. Sandbox style warfare: 
  Huge maps (and i mean huge!) coupled with the freedom to take the linear path or the detours through 
 marked locations to collect gold / collectibles / weapons. Don't worry, you can (& m sure you will) 
 leverage a large variety of vehicles to travel across!
  
  2. Destruction Fun
  Almost everything is satisfyingly destructible, from buildings to trees to vehicles to bridges! 
 And the degree of destruction depends on the kind of 
  bombardment you inflict. A single shell tears a hole in a building, while a mortar strike on the 
 same reduces it to ruins. Blowing up stuff was truly never so much fun
  
  3. Top notch character interaction & sound-work
  Your team is no hero composition willing to 
 die for their country. They are bad-asses with real worldly interests who end up chasing the mercenary 
 gold (before the US army finds it) towards the end of the game. The tongue-in-cheek humor unfolds 
 some really hilarious moments that make your squad instantly likable
  
  Apart from the obvious, there are a whole lot of Russian soldiers to take care of. Although the 
 enemy A. I. is simply pretty stupid at times, the sheer number & firefight intensity ensures that 
 you do have a tough time. Enemies do not get marked on your map unless they open fire on you. Which 
 means if an enemy soldier is stupidly gazing at stars while you snipe them from a distance, others 
 may (sometimes may not) get alerted to give you a tough time. Alerting any unit means a big risk, 
 especially towards the later stages where tanks and vehicles are to be fought against. 
  
  Snipers are pretty irritating and so are machine gunners who stand behind a big shield that makes 
 a head-shot your only chance. But on the whole, the game is not very difficult to deal with, thanks 
 to the health injector that you can use infinite times after a brief recharge!
  
  Your objective achievement unlocks different areas of the map for you to progress. You can simply 
 follow the main objective, or detour from set paths to find out collectibles (not to mention gold!) 
 that may be really useful. You can carry only two weapons at a time so your choice has to be half 
 intuition and half luck! Its better to carry a rifle and a bazooka. I personally preferred the 
 mortar strike for two reasons (even though it requires you to be stationary which means quick suicide 
 in front of an enemy tank!) :
  
  1. It can be used infinite times (after a brief recharge post every strike)
  2. It can be used 
 from a long distance to obliterate enemy installations before you move in to finish the leftovers 
 with your rifle
  
  You can check the gun stats on your pause menu under collectibles to gain insights into your gun's 
 suitability. 
  
  The game has multiple modes of travel - boats, trucks, APCs, BMPs, jeeps & tanks. Some of them 
 are fitted with various types of guns and you can choose to drive or shoot (from a stationary vehicle, 
 squad-mates can't drive) . You can even repair your vehicles with a repair tool that you can carry 
 in one of your weapon slots. I suggest carrying this tool only in case you are driving the tank 
 to preserve the solid firepower at your disposal! There is also a long complete stage where you 
 fly a tyrant's cool gun-ship while destroying the world below (imagine infinite deadly missiles 
 at the touch of button wreck satisfying havoc!) There are 2 camera modes (in-car & behind) available 
 while driving vehicles.
  
  The stages vary in terrain type as well as day timings. Though the graphics are nowhere as solid 
 as Gears of War, they are god enough to keep you hooked to the onscreen action & explosions. Compare 
 it to the rendering of a vast map and you will no reason to complain at all. The sound as i already 
 mentioned is the best part of the game. The cars even have an old radio that you can flip through 
 for some amusing song-work. 
  
  The maps range from swamps, harbor, jungle, countryside, cities/ villages etc to give a solid feel 
 of combat variety. In case you die, the game lets you respawn from a checkpoint but without having 
 to do any of the destruction again (whatever you killed remains killed!) . With obvious benefits, 
 this hampers down the challenge in the game. 
  
  You may want to compare it to CoD 4 but my sincere advice is not to do it. Njoi it as a novel FPS 
 because its sandbox warfare and universally destructible environments will provide you a more than 
 satisfying experience. Two thumbs up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Bad Company was a lot like other shooters I have played but that's a good thing because I like 
 other shooters I've played. My favorite part of the game was the fact that there were different 
 ways to beat missions by using different vehicles. In one of the chase levels you can fly away, 
 boat away, or blast through with a tank. 
  
  (Sorry this is a weak review, I just wanted to roughly put some important ideas down because I 
 just fnished the game, I will edit this later)
  
  The game only took me two days, maybe ten hours to finish. 
  
  If you are KIA in the middle 
 of a mission the enemies you took out are gone when you restart. This made the game really easy. 
 So for example if there are 25 enemies and you kill five of them and then you die, when you restart 
 from the save point you only have to kill 20 enemies, and so on and so on. So if you die two times 
 then you usually come back and walk through a mission until you have a couple enemies left at the 
 end, this made the game too easy.
  
  There is ample opportunity for sniping which is usually how I complete missions if given the choice. 
 If you blast open a roof then you can sit up top and pick off enemies. 
  
  One thing that helped me a lot was pressing forward in the game rather than taking time to shoot 
 everone on the map then slowly mowing forward.
  
  This game was so much fun that I wish the single player campaign was a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeastEator
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a great game in so many ways. It has a solid story mode that is pretty 
 short, but still really entertaining. There is an amazing multiplayer which, keep in mind, is the 
 main part of this game.
  The single player story mode of this game is pretty deep and gives you a pretty wide variety of 
 missions to test out all your skills. There are some missions for sniping, others where you must 
 have a grenade launcher, and some that require many different mixes of weapons and techniques. 
 The enemy AI are prety good in the way that they will not know where you are unless they see you 
 or you make a sound (such as firing your gun) , but they can be a little "dumb" at times. sometimes 
 they are really aggressive, and others, you can walk up to them and they will acknowledge that 
 you are there but just stare at you rather than shoot. Do not let this get you down, because it 
 is very fun to "tease" the enemy when he does this. The enemy AI are very fun to blast away at 
 because of the fun rag doll physics. Your team AI can make some silly comments at times but at 
 others they can make you laugh hysterically when they make a funny comment and they each have their 
 own personalities. There is a pretty simple story to the game, where you leave your "safe" country 
 and crosss the border into hostile territory and can't be brought home by your own military because 
 the military is not allowed into this country. You and your squad then find a reason to stay in 
 the country for a little longer... A huge amount of mercenary gold to steal! The story is pretty 
 short (6-12 hours) but is immensely fun.
  The multiplayer is this games bread and butter. The only thing people might say is bad about this 
 game, is that there is only 8 maps and there is only 1 game mode (gold rush) . I know that doesn't 
 sound like much, but one round can last from anywhere between 5 mins to 30 mins. There are two 
 completely different play styles for each map (attackers and defenders) which basically doubles 
 the number of maps in the game. The maps are also HUGE and highly detailed. I have over 4 days 
 of gameplay in the multiplayer and still learn something new about the map each time I play it. 
 This is not a run-and-gun type of game and you will do poorly if you try this strategy. You must 
 communicate with your team and give each other backup when nessecary. The multiplayer in this game 
 does not include a split-screen game mode, but this can be easily overlooked beacuse of this games 
 amazing multiplayer experience!
  So, this is a brilliant game and a must-have! The destructable enviroments are brilliant and really 
 boost the quality of game-play and realism. The graphics are top notch and the sound is even better! 
 please do yourself a favor and go buy surround sound for this game! You wont regret it. It really 
 feels as if you are in the middle of the battlefield with the sounds of vehicles, people yelling 
 commands in the background, and an amazing echo when you fire your gun in a building. This is by 
 far the best game of 2008 so far and will keep you busy for days of exciting entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bullet_soldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'm going to start with the pros and later about the cons of Bad Company. Campaign is a living 
 warzone with awsome lighting effects and graphics. The harder difficulties make it more exciting 
 and when you die the checkpoints are seemingly no where. You start where you left off is all I 
 can say. Multiplayer is fun in a way, but it sucks really, really bad when your teammates are unexperienced 
 and dont have a microphone. If you are a deffender, they end up blowing up the gold crates that 
 you are supposed to deffend and no one can stop him because he doesn't have a mic. Your other teammates 
 start killing him, he feels bad kills back, the other team wins, and you miserably lose.
  
  The other bad things are that, in multiplayer, there can be so many things going on around you, 
 that everyone and eveyy object lags..... then you end up going through walls, and when you run straight 
 and crouch it doesnt respond and you can't aim down your sight. Getting killed makes everyone mad 
 because you have to wait about 30 seconds to spawn and defuse a charge. and crouching behing sand 
 bags only makes it where when your head is vulnerable to a bullet. By that I mean your head sticks 
 out, but it doesnt matter anyway if you were one on one with the enemy. If you had a M16 andhe 
 had a shotgun you shoot him. He's about to die he shoots you but before he shoots you kill him, 
 but the system sucks so bad it doesnt denie his bullet so he kills you.
  
  PROS - Awsome Campaign, Destructable environment, Weapons, Vehicles, Strory Quality
  
  CONS 
 - Clumzy AI, Bad Melee and Fire System, No "Create-A-Class,"
  Only One Playlist, (Only eight maps, some of are horrible"
  
  If I could give Campaign by itsself 
 a score - 9.0
  Multiplayer - 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  If I wanted to make this review short and sweet, I'd probably just say "If you like blowing stuff 
 up and killing a bunch of people while doing it, then Battlefield Bad Company is the game for you." 
 But since I like to add a bit of professionalism to my reviews, I'll delve a bit more into the 
 game and give you a more enlightened point of view on this first-person shooter.
  
  Battlefield Bad Company comes from developer EA DICE and publisher Electronic Arts and chronicles 
 the adventures of B-Company, a band of rejected, misfit soldiers used by the army as canon fodder 
 to slow down enemy troops until the "real" soldiers arrive. You'll play as Private Preston Marlowe, 
 who's recently been reassigned to B-Company for undisclosed reasons. Joining you for this mission 
 are Sergeant Redford, a tough and wise veteran whose soul purpose for joining the squad is so he 
 can retire early; Stillwater, who joins the army only to get a college scholarship without realizing 
 he'll actually have to fight; and Haggard who's just there to blow everything to smithereens. The 
 camaraderie and constant teasing between Stillwater and Haggard is actually quite funny, as you'll 
 see them push and shove each other or play rock-paper-scissors in the background while the Sarge 
 gives out orders. Although it has its fair share of funny moments, the story and voice acting aren't 
 this game's pay dirt. Actually, you can see how this one will end from a country mile away.
  
  Although previous Battlefield games weren't known for their single player experience, concentrating 
 more on the multiplayer side of things, this one is much different. There's a nicely fleshed out 
 single player campaign here. As you make your way through the campaign, not only will you get to 
 blow up a ton of walls, tanks, helicopters and, yes, even people, you'll also get to shoot them 
 down with a very eclectic variety of weaponry. Although there are a lot of guns to choose from, 
 the force and accuracy between them is barely noticeable. It would've been nice to have freedom 
 of choice in which weapon to use, as we do in Rainbow Six Vegas games, but, sadly, there isn't, 
 so you'll just have to settle for the weapon you pick up at the time, crappy or not. However, whether 
 you're using a shotgun or a semi-automatic, the shooting feels good. It might not be as tight as 
 in Call of Duty 4, for example, but it does the job well.
  
  One thing you'll discover about Marlowe is that he's quite the jack-of-all-trades. Not only can 
 he fire rocket launchers and use mortar strikes, he can also repair vehicles found throughout the 
 game. You can carry your main weapon, with either a grenade launcher attached to it, hand grenades 
 or a side arm, as well as, for your secondary "weapon", a variety of things from a rocket launcher 
 to a mortar strike or even a repair tool. The gung-ho style of play was a nice change of pace 
 for the first 30 minutes. Although the game encourages you to blow holes into walls to expose the 
 enemy, I found it more fun to just rush in there and gun them down. Blowing up tanks and walls 
 is fun, but it really gets old after a while.
  
  Although you'll die more often than you'd like in this game, doing so isn't as bad as you'd think. 
 Aside from the many checkpoints scattered around the maps, you'll get to carry a nifty little gadget 
 called the health injector. Instead of the overused health regeneration system from other similar 
 games, I'm guessing the guys at DICE wanted to give Bad Company a more realistic feel with this 
 injector, but the fact that you can use it every 40 seconds or so makes it feel more like a gimmick 
 than a novel idea. Add to the fact that, when you die while in a vehicle, and even if it explodes, 
 you'll respawn in said vehicle at the checkpoint, armor intact and all. This reminded me of BioShock's 
 Vita-Chambers and how much easier it made the game.
  
  The AI in Bad Company is laughable at best. I lost count of how many times I just stood next to 
 an enemy for a good five seconds before he noticed me. Also, don't expect much help from your squad 
 mates, as they'll just take cover behind something and act like nothing's going on around them. 
 That's when they're not bumping into you while you're trying to avoid enemy fire. This is where 
 a human partner, or partners, would've made all the difference in the world. Sadly, the game offers 
 no co-op whatsoever, which is ridiculous for a shooter released in this day and age.
  
  Luckily, this is a Battlefield game, which means that there is plenty of multiplayer action to 
 be had here. Twenty-four players go head-to-head in an attack and defend mode called Gold Rush, 
 where the attacking team tries to destroy the defending team's gold crates. Although the Battlefield 
 mainstay mode called Conquest will be made available to download later on down the line, you won't 
 miss it much while playing Gold Rush. The online is relatively lag-free and tons of fun to play. 
 The only downside here is that if you arrive late to the party, you'll have a tough time keeping 
 up with the rest of the already established players, but that goes for any other online game as 
 well.
  
  Battlefield Bad Company could have been a gem of a game, but its repetitiveness, faulty AI, quirky 
 health regenerative methods and lack of co-op bring it down a couple of notches. The game is far 
 from being bad however and should keep you entertained far beyond its 10-hour single player campaign 
 with its excellent online component. With breathtaking sound and all-around decent visuals, Bad 
 Company is worth checking out when it hits the bargain bin sometime in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: progamemania
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Surely AI enemies are not so clever, and there are some letdowns in the frostbite engine (Destruction 
 wise) . But man have you ever heard such great sound effects in a game before? My answer is no. 
 it is like being in a real war zone. When you raise the volume on you sub-woofer you will be amazed 
 how good the SFX are. Graphically speaking the game looks great. Sometime it's like looking at 
 a real (photo-realistic) environment. I know that the GFX have some blemishes but it's not like 
 it's not good. It looks great. Besides the game presents the new feature of destructible environment 
 which is really fun to try. The bad thing is that your AI partners don't seem to like to fight 
 at all. For example if you face a tank your "demolition expert" will leave you to face it without 
 offering you any help even though he has an RPG with an infinite ammo. One more thing about the 
 B company leader (serge) , as time goes on you'll find that you'll be doing all the leading yourself 
 as you decide were does the B company heads not the "serge". Nevertheless it is a really fun game 
 to play. I know that this may hurt but I would say that it is (in fun terms) to less than COD4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  I'm an old time Battlefield player on PC platform. Immersive online fps, with a entertaining single-player 
 option. One of the best online fps to hit the PC since Counter-Strike.
  
  But, frankly, I've never come across something like Bad Company so far.
  
  Bad Company is one 
 of those games you could take a good five minutes looking at someone else play and actually be 
 satisfied and happy that you did. The way the game presents everything to you during the course 
 of both the single player and multiplayer, it will most likely make your jaw drop. 
  
  The question some people have is why should I play this when COD4 or Halo is more than enough, 
 well this the graphics of BC are a great place to start. Like I said before, you can just look 
 at the game being played and it will make you excited to give it a go. The areas in the game look 
 great especially after blowing up a wall or two. Taking a grenade launcher and blowing up the side 
 of a house and seeing the rocks and debris fall is a great site to see. 
  
  The vehicles all look good as well as the weapon models. The player models themselves in single 
 player all are very detailed with each character having distinct looks, while on multiplayer they 
 are very similar but that is ok when you have so much going on you tend not to notice all that 
 much. The way the battlefield itself shows signs of battle such as houses torn apart leaving only 
 support beams or the ground filled with craters of tank and grenades blasts really show how great 
 this engine is.
  
  The sound has to be just about the best I have heard in any game because of that fact that so much 
 in the game is happening at once and every single thing can be heard very well and it's so precise. 
 
  To find out just how good the game is in this department, all you have to do is to stand in a house 
 and start shooting and blowing out the walls and you will instantly see how great the game is. 
 I have a surround sound system and it feels just like you're in that room with shells falling on 
 the ground and concrete being blasted all around you. Walk into a tank and you will hear the shots 
 shooting right past you or at you if you are unlucky. 
  
  The control can be compared to most console shooters but with some tweaks here and there.
  
 
  Sure COD4 and Halo are still very popular but with no real map packs coming out for some time 
 in either game some gamers that might be clamoring for another online shooter should definitely 
 look at Bad Company. This game should be a great game to play during the hot summer and should 
 have you keeping cool in the summer months indoors.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danster96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  hello,
  
  i played the demo of battelfield bad company and i gotta say that the fact that it lets u play 
 a mission AND play online that is a pretty tight demo. althogh it is a shame that the demo will 
 b shutting down most of its online servers on tuse day (this tuse day) ... ) : but any way the demo 
 had a very good run. i myself have only played the demo but i am planning to buy the game sonner 
 or later. so any way, compared to other demos out ther i gotta give it its 5 diservering stars. if 
 any of u have any disagrements please let me no i haven't even bought the game yet so u u guys 
 give me the call.
  
  P. S. o yea and ther is som bad online play .. just a little. for example during online play u may 
 notice u get 15!!! points decreased from ur score if u even accidentaly hit ur teamate or.. kiled 
 a teamate, any yes u do go in to neagative points ) : 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company was a welcomed surprise when initially announced by DICE and EA. The developers 
 set out to create a single-player oriented Battlefield game with some gameplay elements that are 
 new to the franchise. Numerous features were promised, including rich characterization, engaging 
 storyline and an altogether exciting single-player experience. At some point, EA proclaimed that 
 certain weapons in Bad Company would be available strictly as downloadable content or if you purchase 
 of the collector's edition. This lead to the well-known Bad Company boycott, which eventually forced 
 EA to change its tune. Later on, they announced that extra weapons included in the Gold Edition 
 of the game will be free. Other players, however, would be able to get the weapons by ranking up 
 their avatars to the max level. As it turns out, this feature wasn't a bad move. But let's not 
 get ahead of ourselves.
  
  We've always enjoyed BF and were keen to see the series in its first single-player form. The story 
 itself doesn't rank very high on the originality scale - Ruskies, mercs, World War 3 or something, 
 greed, all of which ultimately leads to blowing stuff up. In short, you've pretty much seen and 
 heard it all before. This one's more about the characters though. There are four key characters 
 in the game, including Preston Marlowe (i. e. You) . Preston is assigned to B-Company, which is usually 
 sent into the most dangerous enemy territories to secure areas before the army can send in its 
 top units. Actually, the army sees you and your squad-mates as cannon fodder and won't hesitate 
 to give you the toughest assignments instead of sending in a rescue chopper, so you best be on 
 your guard.
  
  The characterization makes the single-player worthwhile and you'll soon grow to like each member 
 of your team. DICE also seasoned things by adding a fair dose of humor and for the most part it 
 works rather well.
  
  During the first mission, the game immediately introduces players to one of its essential facets 
 - environmental damage. Your character can use high explosives and stuff like grenades and grenade 
 launchers to blow holes through walls and literarily demolish houses, buildings and other structures 
 scattered throughout the map. Like any previous BF game, vehicles are an important part of gameplay 
 and Bad Company is no exception; you'll find everything from armored cars, boats, trucks, tanks, 
 helicopters and so on. There's even a handy golf cart available at one point. The developers have 
 once again shown their talent for establishing solid vehicle physics. Whether you're maneuvering 
 a speedboat, jeep or any other vehicle, you'll find that it reacts convincingly to the terrain 
 and environment you're traversing through.
  
  The mission structure is somewhat repetitive, with a relatively standard choice of tasks on offer, 
 such as planting explosives on crucial enemy targets, disabling communication towers (which is 
 essentially the same thing) , defending friendly units for a certain amount of time, etc. In this 
 game, combat tactics usually amounts to choosing how you're gonna blow something up or deciding 
 from which direction you're going to attack an enemy encampment. Usually there are various ways 
 to approach an enemy base - by boat, in a land vehicle or on-foot. No matter how you choose to 
 attack, it's likely you'll be seen by the enemy, so you won't bother much with stealth approaches. 
 At least I didn't.
  
  Although enemy soldiers can put up a decent fight, the game in itself isn't much of a challenge 
 to the hardcore FPS crowd. Still, I may have stretched things when I said "decent fight" just then. 
 Occasional AI glitches did bother me. Enemies standing idly on their sentry posts, just waiting 
 for someone to blow their heads off. In fact, you'll find that enemy troops are generally easier 
 to overcome than in most shooters.
  
  Unsurprisingly, it seems that, in the end, DICE managed to create a game that's more compelling 
 and addictive in multiplayer. "Gold Rush," for instance, is where the real fun's at. Also, you 
 can pick any one of the 5 character classes (Assault, Demolitions, Recon, Specialist, and Support) , 
 each with unique abilities and unlockable extras. Online matches can get pretty intense. The maps 
 are huge and can accommodate up to 24 players and each one of these can hop into a vehicle of their 
 choice - choppers, boats, tanks... you name it. Vehicles can be repaired during gameplay. Bear 
 in mind that you're a sitting duck while patching up your ride, so instruct your teammates to quit 
 slacking and provide some covering fire. All in all, it becomes very enjoyable, especially when 
 you spice things up with destructible environments.
  
  The weapons are an essential part of Bad Company - I found myself often resorting to the Russian 
 remote mortar strike (a personal favorite and very effective against any target) . However, in order 
 to enjoy all the weapons and if you want to get your mitts on a cooler arsenal than what's available 
 in single-player, you have to take part in online matches. You can play ranked or unranked matches 
 in 8 well-designed maps. It's cool from our perspective, but it may not be your cup of tea if you're 
 a single-player-only type of gamer.
  
  On the technical side of things, there's really nothing bad we can say about this game. It looks 
 and sounds good too. The developers took extra care in providing some top-notch sounds effects. 
 Explosions, reloading weapons and gunfire all sound differently depending on whether they occur 
 indoors or in the open. The voiceovers are very good and they fit each character in the game perfectly.
 
  
  I guess, ultimately, EA and DICE decided to emphasize the fun factor as opposed to the aspect of 
 tactics, enemy intelligence and realistic combat. Which is fine in our book. You can have a jolly 
 good time with BF: Bad Company just by demolishing half the environment. Still, certain design 
 flaws and gameplay weaknesses might ward off tactical shooter aficionados and anyone who expects 
 tougher enemies. This doesn't mean you should dismiss the single-player completely. It's funny 
 and it has its moments, even though it may not take you too long to finish it (like most shooters) . 
 Alas, Bad Company's lasting qualities reside in its multiplayer, rather than the main campaign, 
 which doesn't come as much of a shock considering DICE's reputation. Oh well, at least they gave 
 it a shot and came up with a reasonably enjoyable single-player and a damn fine multiplayer experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  i loved battlefield 2: Modern Combat when it was released.... bought it on 360 and loved it, but 
 was anticipating a true sequel for next gen consoles. I have been playing this game since its release 
 and absolutely love it. The destructive environments at first seem gimmiky, but as you (and everyone 
 else) learn the game... it becomes your best tool and friend. The game is visually amazing, as is 
 the sound... in the middle of the battlefield during online matches you will actually, for the first 
 time, get a sense of accompany in a war battleground. Chaos is flying everywhere, building are 
 being blown apart, you see rockets falling from the sky, as you're crawling through a forest... you 
 hear a loud sound, see trees collapsing and witness a tank slowly roll by you, as you hide and 
 shiver... its just an amazing experience that no other game could offer thanks to the new Frostbite 
 Engine by Dice. There are some guns to unlock (not as many as COD4) , but each weapon feels, sounds 
 and acts differently. The vechiles are a blast to drive around in, just as great as the previous 
 games in the series. The single player is still a tutorial and quite boring, but the multiplayer 
 will keep you busy for months... me, years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The campaign is a little... shaky. The storyline is really good and your squad 
 is frickin hilarious. but the play itself is a little... iffy. This game started to remind of that 
 one total flop frontlines: fuel of war until i decided i would play the multiplayer. This multiplayer 
 is amazing.! The level up system is really amazing. The way you unlock things is great. And the 
 gameplay is awesome. I love the way everything has checks and balances. For example the tanks kill 
 most infantry except snipers who get killed by most infantry. The sound system is so great. Its 
 way better than any other game ive played. The gunshots are oh realistic you almost jump when you 
 shoot. And you also hear the gunfire off in the distance. Dont let me forget the part where you 
 can blow through anything thats just plain fun. When there are too many enemies in a door you can 
 run around the other side and blow a hole in the wall and shoot them in the back. Thers just so 
 much dimension its amazing. I would really recomend this to any SKILLED player, newcomers maybe 
 not this game CAN be a little difficult at times but thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas_Katarn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that this is a very good game and that only a few poor choice is stop it from 
 having the best multiplayer on Xbox Live. The Battlefield series has allowed players to fight in 
 World War 2, Vietnam, the future, and in the present. Bad Company takes place in the present, where 
 a fictional war is going on between the United States and Russia. 
  
  Unlike past Battlefield games, Bad Company has a Single Player story that doesn't end up feeling 
 like a series of bot matches strung together with some text or video separating each one. The main 
 character, Preston Marlowe, has just been assigned to Bad Company after doing something that could 
 have gotten him thrown in jail. Bad Company is where all the misfits in the army are assigned and 
 sent on almost suicidal missions. The game starts with a bang as the convoy that you are riding 
 with is hit by an artillery strike, what follows is many, many more bangs. That is because in Battlefield 
 Bad Company, if you see it, you can probably blow it up. Trees, walls, roofs, or enemies are all 
 able to be blown up in many different ways. Can't find that flank on a group of enemies? Why not 
 just switch to your grenade launcher and go right through a wall, or three.
  
  The story for the game is that you and the rest of your squad find out that a group of mercenaries 
 get paid in gold. After fighting some of them and finding a gold bar on a body, they decide to 
 go after the gold and ignore orders. Your squad is made up of some great characters that you will 
 probably start to really like over the course of the Single Player game. Your squad leader is Sergeant 
 Redford, a soldier that used to be proud to serve his country, also the only person to request 
 a transfer to Bad Company. After being in Bad Company and being used like fodder by the army all 
 he wants to do is go fishing. The other two members of your squad are the exact opposites of each 
 other and spend most of their time fighting. There is ** (gamespot censors his name, WHAT?!) , who 
 doesn't like fighting but joined the army to get a scholarship. The last member of your squad is 
 Haggard, he likes to blow stuff up, enough said. 
  
  While it is nice to see that the single player games has an interesting story with good characters 
 most of it feels like training for the multiplayer. When you die you just respawn and can continue 
 attacking making the game very easy, and while it doesn't feel like a bot match your enemies will 
 usually do little more than stand still and shoot at you. It doesn't help that, even though you 
 can find silenced weapons, if you take an enemy out at long range before going into an enemy base, 
 the entire base will likely still be alerted and any enemy with a shot at you will begin firing. 
 Enemy AI aside the Single Player does have it's moments and the maps are huge and offer you many 
 different ways of getting to your objective. It also helps that each mission has many objectives 
 and that after completing each one you will get a short in game cutscene with some dialogue between 
 the characters.
  
  While the Single Player is alright, it is the multiplayer that will likely sell the game for you 
 and keep you playing. The game supports 24 players, more than most games, and I almost never have 
 any lag. There is currently only one gametype for multiplayer, Gold Rush, in this mode one team 
 must defend two gold crates while the other tries to destroy them. Gold crates can be destroy by 
 planting a bomb on them or by hitting them with explosive weapons or shooting them. Once two crates 
 are destroy the map expands and the defends have to defend a new base while the attackers must 
 continue to push them back until they win. The attackers are given a limited amount of reinforcements 
 and will lose if they die too much, they are given more with each base they take over. The game 
 shipped with eight maps, although I am not a fan of all of them, the maps seem to be perfectly 
 balanced. I don't usually see one side win more often than the other on any map, most games end 
 with both sides being pretty close to one another. 
  
  The game has five character classes to choose from in multiplayer games. The Assault class carries 
 a rifle, grenade launcher, grenades, and an item to that heals themselves. Demolition carries a 
 shotgun, rocket launcher, grenades, and mines. Recon is the sniper class and is also the only class 
 to carry a pistol, they also have grenades that act as motion sensors and they have an item that 
 allows them to call down an airstrike on a vehicle, the strike must be guided manually. The specialist 
 class carries a machine gun, C4, grenades, and a tracer gun that will show the location of hit 
 vehicles and allow rocket launchers to seek them. The last class is Support, they carry a heavy 
 machine gun, medkits, a tool to repair vehicles, and a tool that allows them to call mortar strikes 
 down on targets. All classes carry a knife that is an instant close range kill. 
  
  The classes seem to be well balanced except for the specialist class, if there are no vehicles 
 nearby to throw C4 on or if you haven't even unlocked your C4, this class seems to be almost useless. 
 It also is very annoying when sniping at long range to see your target heal himself as an Assault 
 or Support character before you can get off another shot. Using the Support class' mortar tool 
 is a lot of fun, in the other Battlefield games where people used to hide in buildings for cover, 
 you can now just blow most of the building up, as well as its occupants, with a well placed strike. 
 
  
  The star of the game is the explosions. While the shooting usually works well the damage doesn't 
 always seem to make much sense. You might put 10 shots into a guy with a rifle at mid range only 
 to be killed by one blast from a shotgun. Also, due to the explosions the developers must have 
 found it necessary to give characters much more resistance to explosives than in most games. If 
 you hit an enemy soldiers with a grenade from a grenade launcher or with a light tank shot the 
 soldier will still survive. Again, the shooting usually works well, but this is definitely a game 
 where people will complain about a guy killing them when he probably should have been dead. 
  
  On bigger maps the best way to get around is to use vehicles and the game gives you many options. 
 Different kinds of jeeps, light tanks, heavy tanks, boats, and helicopters are used. In addition, 
 there are also stationary guns that shoot bullets, rockets, or grenades. Some maps even have anti-air 
 guns or big artillery guns that allow you to get a birds eye view of the enemy team's base before 
 you shoot, and of the resulting destruction caused by your shots. The vehicles usually control 
 well, however, I do have some problems with the tanks. That problem is that after knocking down 
 an entire forest by driving your tank through it you are still able to get stuck on some small 
 obstacles on the ground. 
  
  The online mode makes use of ranks, you can be promoted up to level 25. As you are promoted you 
 are given credits that can unlock new guns for each class, as well as the
  item that needs to be unlocked for each class in order to be used. Medals can also be earned in 
 games for accomplishing certain tasks but those just help you to rank up faster. 
  
  Although there are many guns in this game, each class has one for each of the three armies in the 
 game, and four unlockable guns, almost every class has one or two guns that are obviously better 
 than the rest. Some of the unlocked guns have the exact same stats as the default ones, accuracy, 
 rate of fire, and damage, except that one of the three is increased. When aiming your guns only 
 the sniper rifles and one of the heavy machine guns use scopes, for the assault and most heavy 
 guns it is an iron site view, for the machine guns and shotguns your character gets no sight just 
 slightly better accuracy. 
  
  Graphics wise the game is not the best looking, but it is also not bad looking. Textures might 
 look a little grainy but since you usually have so little time to stop and stare at a building 
 or tree before it is violently destroyed, you probably won't care. 
  
  The sound in this game is excellent. From the bullets slamming into the wall next you, the roar 
 of a tank or of a snipers shot, to the sound of the roof above your head being blown away by a 
 grenade. The sounds is great and will almost make up for the sound that you probably won't be hearing 
 at all, voices. If Battlefield goes out to prove anything other than blowing stuff up is a lot 
 of fun, it is that one is not the loneliest number. In Battlefield the loneliest number is, in 
 fact, the number four. 
  
  The developers, for whatever reason, made the horrible decision to split each team of 12 up into 
 different squads. When you join a game you will be randomly put into a squad with one to three 
 other people, even if you stay in the same game you will be in a new squad at the start of each 
 new round. While this sounds like a good idea it is very poorly implemented because, for whatever 
 reason, the game will only allow you to talk to other squad members. At its best you will just 
 have to be careful where you call those artillery strikes since you can't warn your team not to 
 go into that building, or you will be unable to ask them if it was your team you called it on in 
 the first place. At its worse, which is what it will usually be at, you will go game after game 
 not hearing anybody say a word save for the occasional, "Yay, I killed someone" or the more common, 
 "**** this stupid game, I died". 
  
  The good thing about squads is that you will be able to spawn in your base or on a squad members 
 location whenever you are respawning. The bad side of this is that you are unable to choose who 
 you want to respawn on, if the guy it gives you happens to be swimming around in the middle of 
 the sea away from either teams base, you are out of luck and will have to spawn back at your base. 
 If you have to spawn back in your base you might find that other people have taken all the nearby 
 vehicles, and with no way to talk to other squads, you will have to walk. 
  
  While the game does allow you to invite people to a party before you join a game so that friends 
 can be in a squad together this doesn't always work right. Not many of my friends play Battlefield, 
 and I am unable to make new ones, for obvious reasons. The one friend I have who does play this 
 game often was able to get into a party with me, while the game did put us in the same squad most 
 of the time, it would occasionally put us on opposite teams. This was likely done for team balance 
 reasons but because the server you get into is completely random, the game doesn't even put you 
 into the map you chose, you have no way of knowing how many people are in a game until you join 
 it. 
  
  While Battlefield is a very good game a few bad choices have stopped the game from becoming the 
 best multiplayter game on Xbox Live. The Single Player is only decent and while the Multiplayer 
 can be a lot of fun it makes strategy almost impossible. Even if you get into a game with three 
 friends in your squad you are still unable to talk to the other eight members of your team. If 
 you bought this game there is a very good chance that you don't care much for strategy and that 
 you just want to blow things up, if that is the case, you will definitely have fun with Bad Company. 
 Still it is odd to see a Battlefield game with so little effort put into communication. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillipK88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I played battlefield 2: modern combat when it came out a couple of years ago, and I thought it 
 was a decent single player game. The multiplayer was also wonderful. So when I heard there was a 
 new installment, i decided to drop sixty after seeing it received high reviews. I was soon surprised 
 to find that EA had struck gold (no pun intended) with Bad Company. 
  
  In the latest installment to the series, Battlefield: Bad Company, the single player campaign is 
 given a new look with the addition of a compelling story. If you are unfamiliar to the series the 
 storylines were a little bland and very general similar to Star Wars Battlefield. It also has an 
 adjustable difficulty so you will be able to find the right level to play with. The controls feel 
 tight and laid out well. The learning curve is very short, making it very easy to just pick up 
 and play. The online remains very well put together. Since the addition of another game type, it 
 is absolutely a strong point of the game. 
  
  The actors do a very good job of keeping the story interesting, as well as adding plenty of humor 
 to the game. The characters are given distinct personalities that captivates your interest in the 
 game. Instead of just playing through the game for the action or achievment points, you actually 
 want to know what is going to become of bad company. I also liked the modern day setting of the 
 story. It also takes place during a fictional war in Russia, which is different from a lot of other 
 games in the same genre. 
  
  Bottom line, this game will attract fans of all action titels. If you are a fan of first person 
 shooters, you should own this game. If you can't afford it, you owe to yourself to at least rent 
 it. A great improvement from the last Battlefield game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  BBC multiplayer is great because of its balanced classes and unlockables a la Call of Duty 4. What 
 makes the multiplayer experience differenent from COD 4 is the vehicles, and squad system. There 
 are jeeps, tanks, speedboats, and humvees. There arent too cheep as they can be taken out by a 
 demolition, or an airstrike or artillery barrage, besides the classic rocket launcher. 
  The squad system is a great way to prevent spawn campers and keep players close to the action. 
 You can respawn right next to a teammate in your squad. You can play tactically with your squad, 
 or fight lone wolf if you want to. You can also create your own squad before a match, and invite 
 friends to it, a great way to keep your party together, and in the same squad during a match. 
 
  Unlockables are cool, and each class has there own guns and gadgets, Assault has the syringe that 
 replenishes health, but at a slower rate than single player. (Single players syringe replenishes 
 health to 100 immediatly) Demolition gets a artillary tracer, Sniper gets a homing missile, and 
 Support gets C4. The unlockable guns arent cheep, as they have there own strengths and weaknesses, 
 and not a 1337 pwn cheap gun. 
  Single player maps are also huge and completly destructible, but unrealistic as your always outnumbered. 
 My favorite is the mission on the golf course as you get to drive a golf cart speeding past tank 
 fire. The destructible enviroments create huge strategic advantages. 
  The only bad thing about multiplayer is the one game mode where you attack and defend crates of 
 gold that the attackers have to blow up. Other that that this is a great multiplayer game, and 
 a good game too if you only play single palyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeblofromidaho
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great single player story and it's a battlefield game? Yes, the single player story 
 is quite good for a so called "online" game. The characters are well thought out with the right 
 amount of discipline and silliness. The mercs and gold bars will keep you wanting to do another 
 level before you put the controller down. The best part is the destructable environments. You have 
 to retrain your strategy on how to play a FPS because of this. 
  Online you have the same detailed graphics and destruction. A handsome reward and ranking system 
 keep the addiction high. 
  The only draw backs online is some of the weapon balancing and delayed controls. A shot gun is 
 a menace in close quarters and you will never win a one on one with another gun. The knife control 
 is sluggish and I find some people have the ability to leap 12 feet to stab you while you are shooting 
 them. These are only minor draw backs that dont really ruin the experience but keep it from being 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volcom
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  The only I need to say is, the graphics and physics engines are not done well at all. Very choppy 
 and very 90s! In the 360 age, DICE needs to develop this game a lot further. Basically, this game 
 plays like Counter-Strike. In other words, not the Battlefield I am use to playing. Its kinda disappointing 
 EA and DICE released this game as is. 
  
  Why couldn't this game look like COD? Is it something to do with the large maps? Are they going 
 to develop this game further to be more up-to-date? Why was there no jets?
  
  There are a few questions that come to mind while first playing this game. Like all traditional 
 battlefield games, whats makes it separate from the rest of the FPS is the ability to have the 
 warfare reality game play. In the age of communicating with teammates while online, EA and DICE 
 missed the boat with this Battlefield. There is no commander option to communicate to its troops 
 to motivate common strategic movement.
  
  In conclusion, this game plays like Counter-Strike with vehicles to jump in & out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  I personaly would of rather of had Battlefield 3 for PC because Battlefield 2 and 2142 were just 
 phenominal but i certainly found the Battlefield Bad Company great!! Its got a great single player, 
 which is exclusive to this game. The multiplayer is also very fun, in my opinion the 24 player 
 cap and the gold rush is good, but call of duty's multiplayer or even battlefield 2s online is 
 way funner. Im not going to go to indepth in this review i would just like to say, if your a fan 
 of battlefield or FPSs, much sure you rent or buy this game, its Awesome!
  
  
  My rating scale depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games 
 on it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of 
 other awesome PC games of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game 
 is a great game, on the system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you 
 and get to the point. If theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read 
 it because they are the best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Fun 8/10
  Replay 8/10
  Single+Multiplayer 9/10
  
  
  Overall = 42/50 
 = 84% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfCrunks
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  The storyline of Battlefield: Bad Company revolves around a particular 4-man squad of military 
 misfits during a fictional war in the near-future that pits the United States against the Russian 
 Federation. This squad is one of the many groups of its kind found in the 222nd Army battalion, 
 The B Company, more commonly known as Bad Company. This company is comprised of the insubordinate 
 and often incompetent troublemakers whose use in the battlefield are limited to the role of cannon 
 fodder.
  
  The men in that particular squad, however, feel that they deserve more respect than they end up 
 receiving, and all of that culminates in them going AWOL and pursuing their own quest.
  
  The squad consists of Private Preston Marlowe, the player-controlled protagonist, Private Terrence 
 **** a brainy, analytical soldier who, all-in-all is afraid of fighting and serves as the foil 
 for Private George Gordon Haggard Jr., a. k. a Haggard. Haggard is the comic, in-your-face soldier 
 whose love of fire and explosions made him a soldier, but also landed him in Bad Company. Naturally, 
 he is the squads demolitions expert. At the head of the squad is Sergeant Samuel D. Redford. Unlike 
 most soldiers in B-Company, Sergeant Redford volunteered for the position after an agreement to 
 cut his tour of duty short if he accepted. Eager and very much content to leave the war to go fishing, 
 he always takes up the chance to remind Haggard and Sweetwater that their lives will soon stop 
 being his responsibility.
  
  The entire campaign is pretty sweet as a whole, but when you beat it in less than 14hrs, you'll 
 be somewhat disappointed. So if you actually decide to buy the game take it easy and take your 
 time finding all of the secrets and what not...
  
  FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO AREN'T PLANNING ON PLAYING BATTLEFIELD: BAD COMPANY THEN HERE IS THE ENDING: 
 SPOILER, SPOILER, SPOILER, SPOILER, SPOILER, SPOILER, SPOILER:
  
  Towards the end of the game, the squad find the vast amounts of gold in a garage, but are attacked 
 by the Legionnaire in his personal Ka-52 and retreat to the end of a pier, where they find an AA 
 emplacement, which is destroyed quickly. Preston then picks up a Carl Gustav recoilless rifle and 
 shoots down the helicopter, however, you all can shoot it down any way you please. The squad return 
 to the gold, which is being loaded into trucks by the US Army. They begin to give up, but a soldier 
 asks them where they are going, and the squad blends in. The soldier then tells them to take a 
 truck and join the convoy, awkwardly saying that they are full of scrap metal. The squad happily 
 obliges and takes the truck, which is actually full of gold. They drive away, opposite to the convoy, 
 laughing into the sunset.
  
  However, from the wreckage of the Ka-52, rises the Legionnaire, seemingly unhurt, and the camera 
 zooms into his livid face, hinting at the possibility of a sequel. Well of course there's going 
 to be a sequal and you all now know who the big dog is going to be... SPOILER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govesticrash187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting on this game for a long time, and I think it was worth it. The game's big selling 
 point is the destruction. While the destruction effects are all basically the same, it still does 
 not get old to blow a hole in a building and fill the enemies inside full of lead. The destruction 
 is important in the single and multiplayer. The single player is not all that great, but it is 
 a lot better than the old Battlefield single player bot matches. This actually has a story! I really 
 appreciated the lighthearted humor that your allies use, which at some parts had me laughing out 
 loud. 
  The multiplayer is for sure the better part of the game. You choose your class (recon,  
 depending on how you want to play or what the situation in the battle calls for. All have different 
 abilities and weapons, and all are useful in certain situations. The game only comes with one game 
 mode, but the traditional conquest mode will be availible for download. The one mode is Gold Rush. 
 This is basically attack and defend. The defenders try and defend their gold crates and keep the 
 attackers from blowing them up, while trying to kill as many of the attackers as they can (when 
 all the attackers' reinforcement bar is depleted, they lose the match) . When the crates are destroyed, 
 the defenders fall back to another base where there are new crates to defend. This continues until 
 the attackers destroy all the crates, or until the attackers no longer have reinforcements. The 
 game awards points for kills, and for doing more team-oriented things like fixing friendly vehicles. 
 When you have enough points, you rank up. When you rank up, you get unlock credits which you use 
 to unlock a weapon or item of your choice. This allows you to pick exactly what you want, and you 
 won't find yourself thinking stuff like"I unlocked a shotgun? I never use those." 
  All in all, this is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Battlefield bad company is Basically EA taking on COD4 well let me tell you something this is the 
 worst FPS i have played for a while but before you all disagree please read my reasons.
  
  Single player
  Very poor to be honest the attempts at humour are terrible and most missions are 
 jjust plain boring and the guns feel realistic but are so unsatisfying to use.
  
  Mp
  the best part of the game but sadly it fails heres my reason
  1. helicopter pilots well keep 
 killing you and everytime you go to RPG them they fly away.
  2. an rpg will not kill someone close up and then they just shotgun you once and you look like an 
 idiot.
  3. 1 game mode that you will be bored with in a few weeks
  4. endless tanks killing you and they just keep coming
  5. you cant snipe properly because the 
 bullet lags and eventually kills the enemy.
  6. sometimes grenades dont kill people even when they go off next to them.
  
  Good points
 
  the destructible enviorments are impressive and the graphics are nice and the sound is top notch
 
  
  PROS
  top notch sound
  great graphics
  destructible enviorments
  
  cons
  MP feels broken 
  guns are just no fun to use
  constant attempts at humour fall flat.
  endless 
 tanks and helicopters everywhere.
  
  Verdict
  BF. BC is a decent fps with some very nice graphics and sound but its MP is not just broken its 
 boring and not that satisfying at all if you want a FPS thats deep and a lot of fun with friends 
 buy COD4 you will not regret
  it but BFBC on the other hand is a rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheReview
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a little different from most games. The ability to destroy buildings 
 is definitely a great feature! Battlefield is also a little different because of the funny humor. 
 I think this is the first "War Game" to have so much humor! Sure, Call of Duty and Medal of Honor 
 may have humor during one point of the game but Battlefield: Bad Company pretty much has it through 
 the whole game!
  
  The Good:
  
  - Excellent Multiplayer!
  - Very Realistic - (Blow up building etc.)
  - Characters are funny
  - Kind of has replay value 
 - Find all the gold crates on each map.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Campaign is a little short but the excellent multiplayer makes up for that.
  - Few little bugs 
 where you get close to an object you get stuck and have to crouch to get out of it but you may 
 not find any.
  
  All in all, Battlefield: Bad Company is definitely worth buying! In my opinion, Battlefield 2142 
 and Battlefield: Bad Company is tied but since Bad Company has a campaign, they are the best in 
 series! This is just my opinion tho, you might like an other Battlefield better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fasih_awan
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  When i played this game, it seemed different. The health system is ok, im not a fan of it, i find 
 the shooting a bit sloppy. The new things are like fixing cars, blowing up bomb turrents and other 
 things make this game good. But the shooting could use some serious work. Aiming is a bit hard. 
 And multiplayer is LIVE only. I could play with my friends. One thing they could do is help show 
 where the person is shooting from. What i liked about this game as well is that you can destroy 
 walls and trees, shoot through walls. Overall this game is ok, it could have been better, but it 
 is not. I will continue on the campaign. Some stuff was really fun like bombing trucks and stuff, 
 and that when u go to the area where you bombed, you can see the holes and stuff. My favourite 
 thing is to blow up buildings and trees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  It's probably safe for me to say that the console Battlefield game that came out a couple years 
 ago was never as good as the ones released on PC. It suffered from being downgraded, which is what 
 happens to a lot of the multiplayer game ports that get sent from computer to game consoles. The 
 game wasn't average or anything like that; it just lost some of that special feeling that makes 
 Battlefield what it is on the PC.
  
  It was only in my last review that I was speaking about ports from PC games and how they always 
 get butchered some way or another, making them never as good as what they should have been. So 
 what do you do when you take the name of a well known multiplayer class based game and make it 
 from the ground up for the console? Don't know? Ask DICE as it seems they've manage to hit the 
 spot this time round with the newest instalment of the Battlefield series, Battlefield: Bad Company. 
 Rather than try to move that game across from the PC, they've just made it fresh, with new multiplayer, 
 graphics, physics and even a single player story mode, holy crap, a story in a Battlefield game!?
 
  
  So let's speak about the story mode for a bit. The game sets you up in single player as a Private 
 Preston Marlowe, a new recruit to the Bad Company squad. Bad Company is a squad that consists of 
 men that have been in some sort of trouble with the law. Rather than doing community work, prison 
 sentences or whatever, they get sent to war to fight in Bad Company. The squad is always needing 
 new squad recruits because they never last too long in battle. They're the cannon fodder of the 
 army, the throwaway troops. Private Marlowe ends up befriending three other squad mates that go 
 by the name of Haggard, Sweetwater and Sarge. The story starts off bog standard, with the squad 
 just doing what they are told. This is until later on when they find some gold bars, deciding that 
 the U. S Army doesn't give two fingers about them, they decide to go AWOL and chase down a whole 
 lot of gold from a mercenary group.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company's story isn't to be taken seriously. The characters feel as if they were 
 put into the single player to add some comical value for the gamer. This isn't bad at all because 
 they do come out with some great lines from time to time, and even when the other lines that come 
 out aren't as good, you'll still chuckle because they were damn stupid instead. The characters 
 come to life with their likeable personality. There's a lot of dialogue spoken between these three 
 major characters that hang around with the protagonist. The rest of the story doesn't really seem 
 to be as well thought out. You never really know why you are fighting the war but then that doesn't 
 matter as it gets pushed to the side when you start chasing down those gold bullions.
  
  Overall the story isn't really the main problem of the single player section. The game is still 
 a blast to play through because of the amount of action. The main problem is really down to how 
 easy it is to finish the campaign. The game gives you an item called the health injector, this 
 is a needle that you slam into your chest that instantly sends your health back to 100%; you also 
 have infinite use of it. The health injector does have to charge up, but it doesn't take long, 
 so you can just jab it right back in you when you see yourself about to die. But it's not just 
 the health injector that makes the game easy. It seems while designing the game DICE decided to 
 follow in the footsteps of Bioshock. This doesn't mean that you can shoot out lightning or attack 
 with a swarm of bees, I'm speaking about how dying in the game doesn't hinder you in anyway. If 
 you get killed you will spawn back at the last checkpoint.
  
  There are loads of checkpoints throughout a level, so you are never too far away from where you 
 died. When you've spawned you'll notice that everything is where it was when you died. This is 
 because the game continues playing onwards, as if you were playing online. None of the enemies 
 that you killed before come back alive. It ends up making the game really easy to get to the end 
 because you can just either keep dying or heal yourself; there is no punishment from the game.
 
  
  It's probably easy for you to see that the game isn't the best bet for single player action. Speaking 
 about the single player alone, the game is decent enough to satisfy you a play through or two (for 
 achievements) , but it really doesn't do anything amazing, so it will be long forgotten in the future. 
 There's also no sign of co-op, which is a little strange because you are with three other team 
 members and that to me sounds perfectly set up for a four player cooperative action. I guess DICE 
 just wanted to have a pure single experience because they have never done one for the series before.
 
  
  One thing the single player does do fantastically is show off the new Frostbite Engine that DICE 
 has been working on. This new engine means that environments are destructible, be it houses, trees, 
 sandbags, whatever stands in your way, it will most likely be able to take damage. EA say that 
 "Battlefield: Bad Company's sandbox environments are 90 percent destructible."
  
  This is a not a joke statement either. It's not like Red Faction's GeoMod technology, where you 
 were disheartened to see how poor it was when you were blasting buildings. This is maximum damage. 
 It's still not done to perfection though, because if you shoot a grenade at the bottom of the wall, 
 the whole wall will still blow up, it's like no matter where you hit a certain area, the whole 
 area will still be blown away. This should no way get you upset because it still looks amazing 
 when you see the explosion in action. By the end of the level you will have done so much damage 
 to the surroundings, it actually looks like a full blown war has gone on. It also majorly effects 
 how you play the game too. You are no longer safe behind your precious invincible sandbags and 
 walls. If you are going to camp behind something, expect to get a face full of bricks when some 
 tank blasts a shell in your direction. You'll be left there in wide open space after the debris 
 has cleared. It has changed how you play the Battlefield series and changed how you play the entire 
 first person shooter genre - DICE should give them a pat on the back for doing that.
  
  Players better get used to this whole no place to hide feeling because the multiplayer also contains 
 all of the Frostbite Engine features that are in single player. But unlike the single player portion 
 of the game, the multiplayer is far more than just a decent play, it's what Battlefield is really 
 about and it shines out well above the single player.
  
  Let's get the negatives about the multiplayer out of the way first. While these don't really damper 
 the experience of the game, they are still stuff that the series has always had before on PCs. 
 The first major thing is yet again the player count on the maps. The game's multiplayer is for 
 up to 24 players online. This is a big difference compared to the PC games that can hold up to 
 64 players per map. This shouldn't be taken to heart though because unlike the games that get directly 
 ported from PC straight across to the Xbox 360 (take Quake Wars for example) the maps have been 
 specifically made for this amount of players. It means that thankfully you still get to experience 
 some hectic action.
  
  Conquest mode will ring a bell to any Battlefield veteran. It's a game mode that require you to 
 go around capturing flag points to make the other teams counter get to zero. I say this right now, 
 straight out of the box, Battlefield: Bad Company does not include this game mode, "WHAT THE? WHAT 
 IS DICE THINKING?!" I hear you shout. That is a question I have no answer to, but I can say that 
 it is coming very soon as a free download (this message is flashed constantly on the online newsflash) . 
 The only reason I can think of to why it wasn't included is EA wanted to get the game out on the 
 market faster. So while it's depressing that it isn't in, it's nice to see that it's coming for 
 a free download, and that kind of makes it a little better to take in.
  
  That's enough of the teary details, so let's speaking of the good stuff. Battlefield: Bad Company 
 has five classes to play as, most which are the same as ones you find on the PC. Also the game 
 has the same reward unlock system that is feature on those games too. As you play the game you 
 gain points. These are stocked up in a total amount and when you break past a certain quantity 
 you will go up a rank. This starts from nothing and works up through 25 ranks to the top, which 
 is "General of the Army." Breaking past certain ranks earns you unlock points. You use these to 
 gain new weapons or items for the classes. Not all are done this way though. EA have added five 
 weapons which are unlocked by visiting a website called findallfive. com. This is certain stuff 
 you've got to do to get some of the weapons. So if you haven't pre-ordered, or don't own another 
 Battlefield game then expect to miss a weapon or two. EA have kind of slapped the gamer in the 
 face for doing something like this, they should be other ways for players to get those weapons.
 
  
  While conquest mode isn't there, the mode of play that is included, and is the only one, is Gold 
 Rush. Across eight maps players will take turns in attacking or defending creates of gold in the 
 defending team's base. It plays well with the balanced classes, so no complaints there. The style 
 of the mode means lots of frantic, fast action around the bases. Vehicles are also featured on 
 the maps, jeeps, tanks, boats and helicopters are all useable and aren't overpowering if you've 
 got the right classes in your team. The game even includes its own stat website, just like the 
 PC game, so you can look at all your stats from multiplayer. There's so much to unlock through 
 multiplayer. Plenty of badges, medals and ranks to gain that you'll be spending a hell of a lot 
 of time if you wish to get them all. The stat website has waves of information to shower yourself 
 in, and show off if you are a top player.
  
  DICE haven't really pushed the hardware in terms of technical details. The game looks solid, but 
 not jaw dropping. They have decided to focus mostly on the physics, the damage physics that the 
 Frost Engine deploys in the game are top notch. Explosions look the part, with debris flying everywhere, 
 mixed with the audio; the explosions are really something to be seen. The game has a filmy grain 
 look to it. It's something you'll notice when you first put on the game. You might find it a bit 
 annoying at first, but after a while your eyes adjust and you really don't think anything of it. 
 DICE have probably used it to give the game a raw look.
  
  Something that does standout to your ears in Battlefield: Bad Company are the sound effects. Sound 
 that is pumped through your speakers is coming to you in High Dynamic Range Audio (HDR Audio) . 
 This means that depending on the surroundings, the effects that happen in that environment will 
 change to suit the setting. For example, if you go into a house while firing a gun, the effect 
 will change to an echoing noise. Blow some walls away and you get an extremely realistic effect 
 of debris falling down and around you. The game features some of the best realistic sound effects 
 and is one of the highest points of the game. Audiophiles will wet themselves silly.
  
  The thing with Battlefield: Bad Company is that it still is a multiplayer game at heart. It's nice 
 that DICE has added single player, which is funny and entertaining. It gives the player something 
 to sidetrack from the multiplayer, and it's much better than just slapping a bot filled fake campaign 
 mode like some other games do. The game knows it is for multiplayer and it totally comes out that 
 way.
  
  Microsoft's Xbox 360 already has masses of First Person Shooters on the shelf, so Battlefield: 
 Bad Company was going to have to do something great to stick out, and it does. It's the best multiplayer 
 game to be released this year and is certainly up there with Call of Duty 4. It's a different type 
 of multiplayer to that game, but it's a worthy investment. It might not feature a class based objective 
 system like Quake Wars, but it's sure a damn better multiplayer experience than that port. If you 
 enjoy shooters then you shouldn't shy away from Bad Company, which really has the wrong title because 
 this game will be a great companion for your games collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesiercat
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The release was a while ago and besides a weak single-player experience I do love the multi-player. 
 The vehicles handle like crap sometimes, I probably would have changed the button layout, but I 
 love blowing stuff up. This game worth that alone. I have played it everyday for a month and I 
 just love the ability to gain weapons with a purchase system making everyone without the new weapons 
 have to play that much better. The one thing I always loved about the Battlefield games is the 
 ability to turn any vehicle into a huge bomb with a remote detonator. I love putting C4 all over 
 the front of the car, drive it into a group and press the trigger. I wish this game had 4 person 
 on-line co-op a better party system where I could have more than 3 friends. I would have liked 
 saved films. This is my problem with every game however. You can thank Bungie for that. If they 
 didn't create it I never would have known how awesome saved films are. Just like 4 person online 
 split screen and an online couch. But the new engine and aiming system plus running capabilities 
 make it a fair game to say the least. If you do play the single player game it is very funny and 
 it does pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt437
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  After the fairly poor Battlefield: Modern Combat, EA have really pulled their act together to create 
 the fantastic Bad Company. The single player is very solid but far too easy because if you die 
 you can simpily respawn, but i guess many people like that! Here are the good and bad things about 
 the game:
  
  Good:
  -Online is amazing, normally lag free with even gameplay
  -Good graphics thanks to the new frostbite engine that allows fully destructable enviroments
 
  -Fun but easy single player
  -Good ranking system
  -Good set of weapons
  -Tanks, jeeps, helecopters, you name it
  -sniping over a long distance is fun and rewarding
 
  -Diverse range of classes
  -You cant use the same weapon on each map, each map requires a different playing style
  -Team 
 work is key
  -Squad of friends is fun
  -Challenging achievements
  
  Bad:
  -The weapons looks pretty rubbish compared to Cod 4
  -Grenade launchers and grenades have almost 
 no use against tanks etc
  -Grenade lauchers cant kill infantry
  -The sniper rifles dont kill in one shot, its pretty stupid
  -Inconsistant assist system, sometimes 
 you get assists and other times you spray somebody to hell and hit them loads, but get no assist 
 if somebody takes the kill, that area needed more work
  -Still the conquest game mode hasnt been released
  -Rubbish trophy system, half of them are impossible 
 to get!
  
  Overall:
  
  The bad factors are very minor and i was just being really fussy, over all though this game is 
 amazing and in some aspects is better than Cod 4 due to its huge sandbox battlefields and more 
 realistic gameplay, its a must buy! 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezikiel2517
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  I had no experience with the Battlefield franchise before this game but happened to stumble upon 
 it in my search for a new online game to play and am happy I did.
  
  The offline game is great too, featuring yourself and three rogue outcasts in your party fighting 
 Russians in what essentially is a disposable squad that your military cares nothing for. The game 
 soon turns into a quest for gold as your squad is abandoned and classified dead. Along the way 
 you will be treated to some comic relief from your co-horts as they bicker back and forth and occasionly 
 stop to play a game of rock paper scissors. 
  
  One other thing you will do along the way is blow stuff up...... I mean blow ALOT of stuff up. Buildings, 
 trees, tanks, helicopters, pipelines, hell even other people are blown to smitherines at a franic 
 pace and you will take joy watching the chaos ensue as you take the reins of a tank or a gold old 
 fasioned bazooka.
  
  The main draw to this game though will no doubt be the online play which even more so than offline 
 features frantic firefights and endless explosions. Sometimes you will find yourself lost in all 
 the madness which makes in hard to distinguish between friend and foe, it also will allow the enemy 
 to get the drop on you and take a knife in the back from time to time. This is probably my only 
 complaint about the online play, the fact that it's really hard sometimes to tell whos who. Also 
 that every player is supposed to be clearly identified by a blue or orange dot on the screen and 
 most of the time there is no dot which leads one to always wonder "Where the hell did he come from??!!"
 
  
  Aside from that though the game is a blast to play, but with a total of 24 online players driving 
 around in tanks and firing bazookas be prepared to die early and often lol. Now bring on this conquest 
 I've heard so much about!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analRAPIST69696
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  What i really liked about cod4 was the online mode because you can keep leveling up and unlock 
 new weapons and perks along the way. If your one of those people who cant stop playing cod4 online, 
 give this a try.
  
  Let me start by saying i never played the other battlefield games so i cannot comment on how this 
 one compares to the other versions.
  
  So basically the single player story is a simple one, and sometimes the more simple the better. 
 You are part of a 4 man group called "bad company". Led by a Sergeant Redford who is ready to retire 
 and only came to bad company as part of a deal to retire early. You play the role of Private Preston 
 Marlowe but throughout the game you are referred to as the new guy. The storyline is pretty simple, 
 after discovering some gold bad company decides to go MIA to search the country for more but there 
 are some obsticles along the way.
  
  Playing the single player you will notice quickly that your team is useless (and theres no option 
 to play co op with a friend) you basically do all the work while the team follows you. They never 
 die but they dont help either. 
  
  When under attack and taking damage its not like cod4 or gears where your health slowly comes back 
 on its own. In this game it is your responsibility to pull out a needle and jab it in your chest 
 to get your health back. I liked this a lot and found it more realistic.
  
  Speaking of realistic, everything is destructable so enemies have nowhere to hide, and neither 
 do you. Enemy tanks will shoot at buildings you hide in so in this game theres nowhere to hide!
 
  
  Online is fun. So far the only mode is called gold rush. You either attack or defend. Defenders 
 have to defend 2 gold crates while the attackers try to destroy them. It may be the only game mode 
 but its not boring at all so i have no problem with it. 
  
  What makes this game so fun online is the many weapons and perks you unlock as you go on. Every 
 couple of ranks you can use points to unlock weapons and what i liked is that you get to choose 
 which weapons you unlock.
  
  I bought the gold edition but its nothing special. The guns that come with it are guns everyone 
 unlocks when they reach level 25 so in my opinion the extra 10 bucks isnt worth it.
  
  I give the game 8.5 and im firm about it. Bad Company is not game of the year material, in fact 
 i doubt anyone would say its their favorite game. But it does have some cool features such as the 
 destructible environments and the health shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bublinec
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  The reason for this game to be the best fps on the x360 is simple one its battfield once on the 
 pc now console and two with huge enviroments and blowing up houses tanks jeeps nuff said.
  
  single player:
  
  for the first time in the battfield series there is a single player campaign 
 which has you playing as preston marlowe as part of b company joined by sweetwater redford and 
 haggard as your search for gold. the single player is great has a lot to offer.
  
  
  multiplayer: the multiplayer has 25 ranks some ranks let you unlock weapons for the 5 kits assault 
 demolition recon specialist and support. All kits fell right to play except the assault can heal 
 with the auto injector while the other kits have to be healed by the support. 
  
  
  so overall this game is just alsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espioage
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  First of all lets start with the offline. It has an ok story, it keeps you entertained, and the 
 characters are varied, one possibly based off an average American guy, and funny, especially Haggard. 
 The missions do get a bit tedious as they take so long. The offline is really just a tutorial for 
 online as it teaches you all the gadgets which are essential to survival online. Now lets get to 
 the best bit.
  Online is alot of fun, theres alot to do and the people who I've played so far are cool, there 
 not like the average people you meet on CoD4 or Halo 3. It is sometimes very agitating as when 
 you try to connect to a game it doesn't allow it. Now to the controls and features. The on-foot 
 controls aren't brilliant but aren't bad, if you play this game then play CoD4 you'll notice a 
 huge difference, BFs controls are a bit slow and clumsy. The vechile controls are brilliant, the 
 helicopter controls are so much better than the notoriously bad helicopter controls GTA IV. The 
 health system is different to other FPSs but its not going to make every other game go in the same 
 route. The destructible enviroments are expectable after a short period of time, though in my opinion 
 still very fun. If you don't have PSN or Live don't buy this game, online carries it and its online 
 which keeps you coming for more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroicVillainXB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  BF: BC is not the usual formula for a Battlefield game but it is still pretty fun to play. The destructable 
 environments are awesome and changes the way you might play the game. 
  
  The campaign: The single player game isn't really that great and in my opinion has way too much 
 comedy in it. It's worth a runthrough though. It's easy because when you die you come back to where 
 you left off, exactly where you left off. So all the damage and kills you did when you died are 
 still there when you respawn. 
  
  Online: Online is where its at on this game. You can go solo or in a squad, you can drive tanks, 
 boats, hummers, and fly helocopters. Gold rush is the only game mode but they are going to release 
 an update for conquest which will be nice. Gold rush is fun at first but after a while gets really 
 boring. The key to this game is changing up how you play it and there are so many options. 
  One bad thing about this game that really annoys me is the unbalance in the weapons. You can fire 
 a grenade launcher at a wall and a guy standing right there doesnt even get hurt. It takes about 
 a whole clip to kill someone. When you are on a turret it does the same amount of damage that an 
 M-16 does. Other than that it is really fun and addicting.
  
  Keep in mind this is not just a FPS, this is a War game and really doesnt compare to anything else 
 because it is so different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_209
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  the battlefeild series has come long way ever scense they made battlefeild 1942 but the battlefeild 
 series has alayes beenn on the pc. they ea made battlefeild 2 modern combat for the console . the 
 newest battlefeild game from ea and dice is amazing. the story takes place in a fake war between 
 america and russia your charater is put in a group of trouble makers who are called bad company 
 on a mission you and your team find some gold and the story kicks off from there. now the game play 
 is fun you get a lot of weapons from sniper rifles, shot guns, asasult rifle, rocket lanchers, and 
 much more. you can dive many thigs like a chopers, tanks, jeeps, uch more to use. the game envirorments 
 look very well made a new engine in the called dice let's you destory every thing in the envirorment. now 
 in multiplayer there in only one game mode it's called goldrush it's fun you can play up to 24 
 people on xbox live on battlefeild bad company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervenkman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a game that promises amzing destructive environments and it sure does 
 promise. Nearly everything can be blown up or destroyed in some way. Trees can be shot down, walls 
 can be blown out of the side of buildings. Blowing up stuff has never been this fun. 
  
  The single player campaign lacks in how short it is, but the funny characters and environments 
 make up for it slightly. It definitely could have been longer. The side characters are pretty humorous 
 at times, but I never broke out in laughter.
  
  But what really shines in Bad Company is the multiplayer. It is a blast. You can man tanks, humvees, 
 howitzers, snipe from afar, man a rocket turret, and much more. 
  
  All in all, Bad Company is a good game. I wouldn't recommend buying it unless you want the fun 
 multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Well, when I first sat down and started playing BC, I was very disappointed. I kept getting hit 
 again and again, and having my cover blown out from in front of me (thanks to the awesome destructable 
 environments) . However, as soon as I got used to the needed strategy and accepted the fact that 
 plunging a magic healing needle into my chest every minute was not cheating, it started to get 
 very satisfying. 
  
  You are Preston Marlowe, a soldier transfered to "B Company," or the squad of rejects used by the 
 army as canon fodder. In this squad you meet your squad leader Redford (a veteran who joined BC 
 in exchange for shorter service time) , Haggard (a hillbilly pyromaniac) , and Sweetwater (a computer 
 geek who joined the army to impress the ladies) . The dialogue between the squad is hilarious (although 
 sometimes stupid) and really lightens the mood as opposed to the fierce combat going on around 
 you. Anyway you discover that the forces you are fighting against in Eastern Europe are mercenaries 
 - very rich ones. So rich that Haggard spots a convoy of gold trucks, and insists on following 
 them. You eventually go a-wall and, well, you'll have to see what happens. I really expected the 
 story to be the weak link in this game, but I was actually quite impressed.
  
  Each section of the game is divided into levels, which all take place on amazingly HUGE, maps, 
 each with it's one beautifully constructed environment. Each level is quite long, with several 
 main objectives. In fact, BF BC is one of the longest shooters I have ever played. As you already 
 know, everything in the game is destructable, which provides for some awesome scenarios, although 
 it does take some getting used to. The only thing I was disappointed in was that you can't demolish 
 a whole building - with enough ammo you can reduce it to a smoldering flame, but you can never 
 completely topple it.
  
  Like I said earlier, the gameplay takes a lot of getting used to. You take a lot of hits, and end 
 up using your magic needle to heal yourself a lot. This at first feels like cheating (since it 
 only takes 20 seconds to recharge) , but is entirely necessary if you want to get anywhere in this 
 game. The controls handle very well, although you really need some more manuver options. All you 
 can really do is crouch. I came across several situations where I thought, "dang, I wish I could 
 get in prone" or something like that. There are a ton of different guns in the game, which lets 
 you pick your style and plan of attack. One gripe I have is that on some guns it is hard to see 
 through the scope, especially while firing, but I guess that makes it more realistic. Also it can 
 be hard to find ammo or the right gun for the job every know and then, but I guess that's just 
 cuz of the humongo environments. You do have a knife for melee attacks, which can come in handy, 
 but so do enemies, and sometimes if they're standing on one side of a window and you're on the 
 outside, they can swipe and kill you without you even knowing, which is kind of gay. There are 
 a slew of vehicles in BF BC, and all of them handle very well except the tank. They are all a blast 
 to drive (get this - you can drive a golf cart on one level!! How awesome is that??) .
  
  All in all, I'd say BF BC is definitely worth your money, as the campaign is long, it has a solid 
 multiplayer, and there are several collectables through each level (guns, cases of gold, ect.) . 
 Also, it's the first legit game with fully destructalble environments. Hehe, time to blow somethin 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Over the years, we have seen many installments of the Battlefield series. From Battlefield 1942 
 to Battlefield 2142 and somewhere in between, all of these games have been multi player oriented 
 and they have been great games, offering something new every time. So when DICE said that they 
 were making a fully fleshed out single player experience, many people were left wondering if they 
 could do it. While the same great multi player action that DICE is known for in Bad Company, the 
 single player falls short in multiple aspects. While it's not the worst single player in a FPS, 
 there are multiple problems with it.
  
  The Single player adventure takes place during a fictional war between the United States and the 
 Russian Federation. Your put into the shoes of a new recruit named Preston Marlowe who is sent 
 to the 222nd Army battalion know as "B" company but better known as "Bad Company". They are known 
 as this as the battalion consists of many troublemakers, making this battalion cannon fodder essentially. 
 Your put into a squad with 3 other members. They are Private Terrence Sweet water (One word but 
 apparently I can't spell it according to Gamespot) who is essentially the brains of the group, 
 Private George Gordon Haggard Jr, aka "Haggard", who is the demolition "expert", and I use this 
 term loosely as he's more likely to blow himself up then anyone else. The squad leader is Sergent 
 Samuel D. Redford. Unlike the other members of Bad Company, he volunteered to lead them with the 
 stipulation that his tour of duty would be cut short so that he could "go fishing". Eventually, 
 they find and kill a mercenary group called the legionaries who are paid with gold bars and from 
 there the squad is after the legionaries and the gold they are paid with. Most of the game consists 
 of going from point A to point B and destroy something or kill all the enemies at point B. There 
 are a few alternative missions, like defending a tank and escorting vehicles but it generally follows 
 the original pattern. As well, throughout the game you find collectibles which are new guns you've 
 found from soldiers and gold bars scattered around various levels.
  
  While the story has some great twists and turns, the single player game play can get frustrating 
 at many points. For example, everything looks the same. Most of the enemies are the same color 
 as the trees and the ground. While realism is meant to be the reason, it's almost impossible to 
 spot your enemies from far away. As well, your radar doesn't help with that fact as enemies will 
 appear then disappear and then reappear, causing a lot of frustration when one of them comes and 
 shots you in the back. Speaking of shooting, your enemies are the best shooters in the world. While 
 you can't even see them, they are hitting you with everyone of there shots and on hard, it makes 
 it near impossible to get close to them without dying. While there is no death penalty which helps 
 a lot, it means there is going to be a lot of throwing yourself forward to kill on of them, die, 
 and then repeat over and over again until there dead. This wouldn't be as necessary if your squad 
 actually did something. While the game isn't meant to be squad based, your squad is essentially 
 useless. The only way they kill anyone is if they are extremely close and even then it might not 
 happen. Since their are now ways of directing your squad it makes some parts of the game near impossible 
 and is extremely frustrating. All this leads to the player getting frustrated as the story is so 
 good and it makes you want to see what will happen next yet the game is so hard to play.
  
  The game controls very well, as the controls are what you'd expect them to be. The right trigger 
 is shoot, left trigger is throw grenade, left thumb stick is to run, etc. However, I found that 
 the driving controls were very awkward. Left Bumper is accelerate/forward and Left Trigger is reverse/backwards. 
 While I could see why you would need this while driving a helicopter as you need to fire the machine 
 gun as well, it makes it very hard to drive while driving a regular vehicle such as a Jeep or a 
 truck, which is a necessary part of the game as there are 4 squad members and you need to get around 
 somehow. Besides from the awkward driving controls, the controls are pretty much perfect.
  
  While the single player experience falls short on game play, the multi player experience more 
 then makes up for it. The multi player is exactly what you'd expect from DICE considering all their 
 work with previous installments of the series. You start off as a private and work your way up 
 to a General by killing other players, winning, capturing objectives, etc. Along the way to general, 
 you can unlock different weapons fro the different classes. The 5 different classes are Assault, 
 the basic attack class, Demolition, mainly used to blow up vehicles, Recon, the class that uses 
 a sniper, Specialist, who helps repair vehicles and the Support class, who gives ammo and health 
 to other players. Each class has it's own strengths and weaknesses so the game is very balanced. 
 The only game type as of now is a sort of Attack vs. Defend scenario where one team tries to destroy 
 gold crates while the other defend them. However, at a later date, DICE will release a free download 
 that will include the Conquest game type, which made the Battlefield 2 series so popular. The controls 
 are the same for the multi player as the single player and the game has the same vehicles as well. 
 While there are only a handful of maps right now, there will probably be more added later.
  
  When it comes to the graphics, it exceeds in the technical aspect yet the design part seems 
 to be flawed. The game looks great in 1080p with some great smoke and gun effects. As well, the 
 environments have a fairly decent amount of draw distance and you can pretty much see where your 
 next objective is. The houses look well... like houses. The enemies and your squad look great. 
 However, there are some design problems which can be summed up to either forgetfulness or laziness. 
 One of these is level design. Every house looks the same on the inside. It has the exact same pattern 
 and it can confuse you as each house just mirrors other in the general area. Much of the level 
 can end up looking the same and can get you lost. As well, most of the enemies look the same so 
 it's hard to to tell the difference between them which can be upsetting. One of the highly touted 
 part of the game was the destructible environments and it really shows how much work was put into 
 it. Almost everything can be destroyed. You can blow down walls, cut down trees, etc. by using 
 explosives or by shooting the explosive barrels that seem to be everywhere. Overall, the graphical 
 aspect of the game is very good as the character detail and the destructible environments are very 
 good, yet there are some technical flaws. The sound is great as most of the guns are very realistic 
 and the sound from your enemies sound great. As well, the VO's for all the characters are great, 
 with some great script writing to go along with it. Most of the characters have there funny moments 
 and seem to fit very well into the story. However, at some points during the single player campaign 
 your squad mates can be drowned out be the sound of guns which can cause you to miss something 
 important. As well, there is no option for Subtitles so it can be a pain sometimes. Overall, the 
 sound is great and only adds to an already great game.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is a great game that everyone who owns either a 360 or a PS3 should try. 
 With some great multi player action that's intense as it is good, it can lead to hours of fun. 
 However, if your looking for a rich single player experience, I would look somewhere else as Bad 
 Company can be as frustrating as it is annoying. Overall, the game plays well with others and is 
 a real thrill. It was interesting to see what the guys from DICE could do with a single player 
 mode, and it seems like a very good first step. Hopefully, they give us a sequel that surpasses 
 this game, or at very least, give us another great multi player oriented game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  OK, don't get me wrong. BF: BC is all-in-all a pretty good, solid game. But it seems to rely on 
 its destructible cover too much.
  
  
  Graphics (6.5/10) :
  Graphics-wise, the game is pretty dated. Like most of the Battlefield games that made it to consoles. 
 EVERY enemy looks exactly the same. And the environments are decent. You'll notice this here and 
 there, but it isn't too much of an annoyance. I can deal with dated graphics.
  
  Sound (9.5/10) :
  I was extremely impressed with the sounds.... This game has some of the greatest 
 sound effects EVER. Everything sounds incredibly realistic. In multiplayer, all of the sound going 
 on are in REAL TIME, and they are happening somewhere on the battlefield, which is what I LOVE. 
 Unlike CoD4, where it just loops some gunshots for effect. The guns, tanks, bullets, just EVERYTHING 
 sounds great.
  
  Game play / Storyline (7.5/10) :
  The gameplay feels pretty tight and solid. The controls are a teeny, tiny bit unresponsive, and 
 why couldn't ONE button change weapons AND equipment? I hate when I try to pull out a grenade and 
 needlessly pull out a pistol and get a bullet to the face. But overall, I enjoyed the gameplay 
 mechanics, despite the learning curve. As for the storyline, it's pretty decent, and funny, which 
 I like a lot, but it falls flat on its face. The ending is stupid. No emotional climax. No main 
 characters being offed for emotional effect. Nothing.... yeah, it's funny, but c'mon. It felt short-lived. 
 But you'll like the humor in it. Trust me.
  
  Lastability/Multiplayer (7/10) : Unfortunately, there is only ONE game mode... well... until Dice 
 decides to release the Conquest game mode. But the one thing I like is most of the maps work well 
 with this. They are massive, but not overwhelmingly massive. Most players will feel at home after 
 a few games. Surprisingly, the whole "blow anything you want up" gets old FAST. The gimmick wears 
 off just after playing 2 or 3 games or playing through campaign. For me, I got a little bored with 
 playing only one game mode. Where's Team Deathmatch? CTF? But don't get me wrong, you'll like multiplayer. 
 Trust me.
  
  Final Comment: Battlefield: Bad Company is a pretty solid game with good controls and nearly perfect 
 sound effects. The multiplayer could use a few more gametypes and some changes, but it will still 
 keep you entertained. And not bad for the campaign in any Battlefield game. Not too shabby. Not 
 too shabby. 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  It was a decent experience with some fun missions in certain spots in the single player mode. The 
 missions were a bit repetitive during the first half of the game while the second half mixed it 
 up more with a larger variety of vehicles and weapons. The last mission was just insane and if 
 it weren't for the multiplayer-type respawning feature, I would've tossed my controller at the 
 TV screen. Yea, so I have mixed reactions about the game in general.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous. The character models and textures are quite detailed and the weapons 
 look pretty damn good. The maps are incredibly large with no loading whatsoever while you go from 
 point A to point B which was pretty cool. There is a lot of detail in the maps even though some 
 parts are a bit sparse. The water effects are beautiful and the trees sway and move in the sunlight. 
 Certain parts of the maps feature really nice effects with the sky which added to the mood for 
 the missions. The vehicles also look great and are detailed as well. I do have to say that the 
 explosions aren't as well done as the rest of the game.
  
  The sound is a bit strange. There's a weird echo with a majority of the gunshots and explosions 
 to accentuate the wide open battles. But they kind of take away the visceral feeling that CoD4 
 had. Explosions lacked the boominess that other shooters have as well. But the sound for the guns, 
 vehicles and destruction of buildings were really good. I also have to say that the voice acting 
 is excellent and the characters are quite likeable because of that. It's not amazing as MGS4 but 
 it's better than a lot of other shooters out there. The music ranges from meh to good. I like some 
 of the tracks but there's nothing that stands out.
  
  The gameplay is good. The game is basically a multiplayer game crammed into the single player mode. 
 As I've said the objectives are quite repetitive and will actually wear you out over time. I wasn't 
 able to complete any one map in one sitting. They are quite large and you'll basically have to 
 keep going from one point to another under heavy fire in spots. The only time you have any breaks 
 is when you find yourself a tank (but that's up to you) . The majority of the game will have you 
 and your three teammates taking on an entire army. It's really disappointing that the game didn't 
 include a lot of AI allies to help you out in the majority of the maps. Considering the huge settings, 
 I was puzzled why the devs didn't have sections in the map where we had your allies helping out. 
 It was a missed opportunity for some great set pieces.
  
  Anyways, fun game but I think this game should be played for the multiplayer more. I haven't tried 
 it out yet but I heard it's good. The single player had its moments but it wasn't as exciting or 
 fun as CoD4 and it's missing a lot of fundamental gameplay mechanics that would've made it more 
 fun and interesting. The story is decent but it's pretty bland and there aren't a lot of wow moments. 
 It's worth checking out for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zcrimson07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  if you don't have online, read no further this game isnt for you. if youre reading this i assume 
 you have live and my question for you is why have you not experienced this game yet? in my estimation 
 this is the greatest online game for consoles to date. but first let me get this out of the way. 
 the single player is nothing special, there i said it. its not bad, kinda funny even but definitely 
 nothing to write home about. it does serve as a useful tutorial to the games weapons and gadgets 
 though. now that i've gotten that out of the way i can tell you what you've been missing out on. 
 online you choose your class: assault, demo, recon, specialist, support. each has a different weapon 
 and gadget to use and while all of them are useful, everyone usually tends to favor one or two 
 after they've tried them all. for me its recon and support classes. when im looking at the battlefield 
 from afar with my trusty VSS sniper rifle i get to really appreciate everything thats going on. 
 for example: on defense i've taken my place in a sniping tower and my teammates have also dug in 
 w/ emplaced weapons or sniping spots. waiting for the next wave of enemies to respawn. as a few 
 come around the corner i hear a cacophony of machine gun fire to my left and see a wave of rockets 
 fly in from the right and annihilate a poor sap who got caught in the open. this game is filled 
 with moments such as these. if you prefer to play it more aggressively all the power to you. sometimes 
 i like to sneak past enemy lines to take out the enemy's artillery and sabotage their vehicles. 
 the first time i ever did that i had such and adrenaline rush. if you've never had someone walk 
 by you as you hide in a bush right by their spawn you havent lived... now i need to get back to 
 my addiction... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought the gold edition to this game so my review may vary from the general gaming audience.
 
  
  Cons:
  1) Well the enemies aren't that different so gameplay can feel a little boring and repetitive. 
 And all levels are designed like this: "Get from Point A to Point B. And when you reach there blow 
 something up! (most of the time the instruction is blow something up!) . The ending did leave me 
 hanging a little. This question kept popping up in my mind: "Is there going to be a sequel to this 
 game?". I guess that isn't much of a con but i really didn't get the ending. And who was that guy 
 in the ending? Maybe I wasn't paying attention when they explained who he was, but earlier in the 
 game he had no relevance but now he is the cause of a sequel? So all-in-all that leads up to: NOT 
 PROPERLY THOUGHT OUT STORY! Vehicles also were few and far between. They have a few in a town and 
 then when you get on the road and your ride is blown up (and it will blow up) you have to walk 
 the rest of the way (which sometimes can be really long) .
  
  Pros:
  2) Well there were a vast range of weapons and some of them really useful in taking down enemies. 
 It was also quite hard to find some extra ammo for some guns but thats what makes this game so 
 exciting to explore. The level designs are large and enemies can hide almost on every corner in 
 the road or on a hillside slope. That makes this game interesting and you always got to keep your 
 eye out for enemies. Enemies can also hide behind walls so your forced to destroy their cover to 
 kill them. If not you will not complete your objective, which sometimes is: "Eliminate all enemies". 
 The healing mechanic is something new in games and sometimes you'll inject yourself for fun. Lastly, 
 each gun sounds terrific and unique but once in a while you would feel the urge to tell the enemy:"Oh 
 would just you shut up!".
  
  Round Up:
  3) Its an okay game and i know i didn't say anything about multiplayer, but that comes in a variety 
 of maps but they are all basically the same. So if you like fps, give this one a rent or a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is the second Battlefield game to come to consoles. This game focuses on 
 single player, but still has an awesome multi player. 
  
  The single player is about 8 hours long. It tell the story of a soldier named Preston Marlow, a 
 soldier thrown into Bad Company, which is a squad for people that should be going into jail. You 
 have three other people in your squad, Redfield, Sweet Water, and Haggard. these soldier have their 
 own personality and add a lot to the story. The story starts out, that you are invading Russia, 
 and you and your squad are thrown right into the fight. On the first mission, you squad finds a 
 piece of gold on a ded mercenary. Then you go out searching for the rest of the gold.
  
  The game play is pretty much the same as most first person shooters, except that you can blow stuff 
 up. The environments are about 90% destructible. You can blow up house. trees, walls, etc. The 
 only thing the remains of a house when you blow in up are the frame, and the stairs. So you can 
 not blow those up. Destruction adds a lot to the game play. The enemy A. I. is not that smart. they 
 will shoot at you, but sometimes they will just stand there and shoot, and if you can dodge their 
 shoots, then you can just run up and knife them.
  
  The respond system in Battlefield Bad Company is also not that good. it feels a lot like Bioshock. 
 When you die, you respond a little ways from where you died.
  
  The graphics in Battlefield Bad Company look good, though some of the textures look jagged, and 
 everything looks grainy. But the beautiful explosions and the destructible environments make up 
 for graphics problems.
  
  The sound in Bad Company is amazing. You will want to play it with surround sound. The explosions 
 sound nice, everything sound real.
  
  The main reason why you want to buy Bad Company is for the multi player. The multi player is a 
 little different though this time around. Instead of having multi player like the original Battlefield 
 where you have to capture control points, the multi player feels more like Enemy Territory Quake 
 Wars, were you have objectives, and you are constantly moving up on the map. But in Bad Company, 
 the objectives are the same, unlike Quake Wars. You basic have to destroy two gold crates at each 
 base, while the other team defends them. There are about 4 bases per map. But the multi player 
 is awesome, and it will keep you entertained for a long time. Now, DICE did promise to release 
 the original Battlefield mode in a free download, which will be awesome, but this new multi player 
 mode is also really awesome, and the maps are fun to play on. You can even blow thing up in the 
 multi player.
  
  With that said, Battlefield Bad Company is one of the best multi player games to come out this 
 year, and it also has an awesome single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narak13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  BF: Bad Company is fun. there is no other way around it, its very fun. I enjoyed it. The story is 
 good and the gameplay is very good.
  
  The single player mode is good. The story is well written and intresting. It's not your normal 
 'lets kill those scum who are from a different country'. The idea is great and it may of just mean 
 the fact i would of done a similar thing it that situation. But the squad draws you in and you 
 care what happens to the characters. The hummor also helps. the cut-scenes are funny and there 
 are moments of pure brilliance.
  
  So to the games unique selling point. Destructuble environments. And yes 90% of them are. Its not 
 like other games that have claimed this. You can blow though walls and knock trees over. This opens 
 up a new tactical angle. You can no longer just sit tight until your health to regenerate, as the 
 wall will not be there for long. Its great. 
  
  The multiplayer is fast paced and good fun. Gold rush is a fun game mode and the destrucible environments 
 just make it great fun. But what would a BF game be without great multiplayer?
  
  The only bad thing is that from the start of the game you have this gadget that will heal you to 
 100%. This does remove some challenge as death is almost avoidable. On higher difficultly levels 
 damage is a lot harder to avoid damage so its just can be justified, but most of the time its makes 
 the game to easy. 
  
  The only other thing is that the controls can be a bit odd, but after 10mins this is forgotten. 
 All in all Bad Company is a great game and is a lot of fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RunAlong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield, a great series which is known for its large appeal to PC gamers all over the world. 
 Probably the best, maybe. Battlefield has never let its fans down for any of their new releases, 
 and this ones no different to me. Yeah, so what if the graphics are not so life like, or if the 
 enemy AI isn't tough and a breeze to pass on story (except for Hard Mode) , but it's still a great 
 game. Battlefield: Bad Company can be considered a bit different then most FPS's out there on the 
 Xbox 360, maybe that's why it a to appeal to most fans of the series, but besides that, let's get 
 to the story. The story takes place during a war, it's unknown which war because I never heard 
 of it being brought up. 
  
  Anyways, you take control of Preston Marlowe, a soldier who was shipped to Europe and got really 
 bored over there. So one day he decided to distract himself and maybe have a bit of fun by trying 
 to land the helicopter, and crashed it. Getting in trouble of course, he was sent to the 222nd 
 Army Battalion, known as "Bad Company". Being sent here is punishment for insubordinates, hellraisers, 
 and troublemakers alike. They were a group that were the first and last to leave, and no one gave 
 a **** about. So, you start off in the middle of the war, with your squad members, Sergeant Redford, 
 Sweet Water and Haggard. Events and such happen, but later the squad stumbles upon something they 
 weren't expecting, some gold. This small gold bar, sets them off to their hilarious and interesting 
 adventure for gold. But I won't continue on with the story so I wont spoil anything. So yeah, the 
 story is great. It gets serious at times but it gets funny most of the time due to Sweetwater and 
 Haggard having dumb conversations or just being dumb when their bored. 
  
  They're 7 playable levels in total, and take awhile to beat, even on normal. If you go straight 
 forward with the story it could probably take a day or 2 to beat the game. Now they're many complaints 
 about the game being too easy on normal, which is why I recommend playing it on hard for the first 
 play through, then again I wouldn't. If you set it on hard, it definitely is HARD, you will get 
 shot the second you look at an enemy, or if they're around. There's no Co-Op play, and they're 
 collectables and other things you can find like gold crates. It will get you achievements if you're 
 into that kinda thing. So enough about the story and on to the online. Now they're mixed reactions 
 on it right now because there is only one available game mode, you're not allowed to talk to your 
 team, only your squad mates, and there's no private rooms for Clan Battles or to just have fun 
 with your friends. But yet, they have announced a patch for these new features like the ones listed 
 above. Now, online mode features a leader board, a trophy award page, and a unique Dog Tag system. 
 The leader board, consists of the top 50000 players in BF: BC, it lists their stats, accuracy etc. 
 But the leader boards are corrupt due to the fact that many people have boosted their way to #1, 
 so don't buy into it if you see some random guy that's #1. They're many good players, some known, 
 some not. The Trophy Awards page shows all your trophies and objectives that you have done while 
 playing the game, it's kinda of like mini achievements. They're a variety of these awards and take 
 awhile to get them all, I only have half of them. And now on to the Dog Tag System. This is a list 
 of all the names of every person you shanked, stabbed whatever. You can have as many as you can, 
 it's just keeps a record to show off to your friends. And you're also able to unlock weapons in 
 the unlock section, by using credits you earned leveling up, you can unlock new weapons from 5 classes. 
 
  
  On to the the online gameplay, they're 7 maps which are based on the campaign maps but different. 
 These are huge maps, which sometimes require you to take a vehicle depending on the map. Every 
 room can take up to 24 people (12 vs 12) , and a full game usually can take from 8 - 20 minutes. 
 There is no option to join a room, it's just random like Halo 3 and CoD4 if you have played that. 
 But you do have a choice to choose if it is Ranked or Unranked, and it takes just about 3 seconds 
 to find a game. The controls are simple and easy to get used to. There is no lag whatsoever, but 
 online can be tough at times. The only game mode available is called Gold Rush. Pretty much it's 
 two teams, the Attackers and the Defenders. The Attackers must destroy 2 gold crates in anyway 
 possible, detonate, shoot it, use bombs and any other way you can think of until it explodes. And 
 the defenders of course, have to defend them until the attackers run out of reinforcements, a long 
 bar consisting of how long the Attackers can keep respawning and it decreases as a player from 
 the attackers side dies. Now if the attackers finally destroy the two crates, the defenders have 
 to retreat to another base further away, and the attackers advance to the base that was once taken 
 over by the defenders. This keeps going on until the map is completely covered, usually ranging 
 from 3 - 6 bases. 
  
  Off to classes, players can choose from 5 unique classes; Assault, Demolition, Recon, Specialist, 
 and Support. Assault is the average soldier in most FPS's. He comes with an Assault Rifle w/ a 
 grenade launcher, grenades, and a Health Injector. The Demolition class is are the shotguns with 
 all the cool and big weapons. He comes with a Shotgun, Rocket Launcher, grenades, and Land Mines. 
 The Recon class the average camper. They come with a Sniper Rifle, Binoculars which are actually 
 laser designators that call in air strikes on vehicles, a pistol or revolver, and a small grenade 
 sized ball that acts like a small radar that picks up any enemy within the range of it. The Specialists 
 are the sneaky types, they go in, find an enemy, and tell everyone about it in some way. They carry 
 a SMG or Light Assault Rifle, TNT, grenades, and a Tracer Gun, can be used to reveal an enemy to 
 everyone on your team no matter where he is by shooting a small pellet at him. And finally there 
 are the specialist, they usually are the medics and a mix of Assault. They carry a Large Machine 
 Gun, Mortar Strike, Medic Boxes, and Grenades. The gameplay is pretty simple, ya shoot, you kill, 
 nothing special. They're plenty of vehicles and tanks alike to mess with and a helicopter. 
  
  That's pretty much it, it's a pretty great game overall, yet they could have done better, but 
 it's still worth the buy. Hope you liked my review, and I hope you'll be reading others that I 
 have made or will make in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HXC_Ninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company, By EA DICE (Based in Sweeden) , is a highly destructible game that will 
 have you wanting more from this game as soon as possible! Playing as Private Preston Marlowe, you 
 are possitioned in B-Company, where they put all of the misfits of the army into. Your buddies 
 include: Sargent Redford, a leader that is only a few days from retirement; Private Sweet a tech 
 whiz that is a bit of a scardy cat; and Private Haggard, a Trigger happy redneck that loves to 
 blow up stuff! Together, you and your friends will travel and listen to your missions from the 
 army, and make your own 'Side missions'. As you traverse Europe, you come across the 'Legionares', 
 a legendary group of mercenaries that is paid all in gold bars. As Marlowe, you and your squad 
 will try and get as much gold as possible while trying to stay alive! Do you have what it takes 
 to be apart of the biggest gold rush of the year? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a "first impression" review... I just got my copy of Bad Company today and I've only played 
 for an hour or so but nonetheless I decided to put down my initial ideas on the game.
  
  I like shooters... my favorite games include titles like Las Vegas, Ghost Recon, Gears of War, 
 Call of Duty... you get the idea.
  
  Bad Company is in those games line but somehow doesn't match up with them... You can blow pretty 
 much everything you see and that IS fun and good but the tactics part of the game is quite weak. 
 You can't control your squad in any way and even the control you have of your character is not 
 too good. For instance, you can't crawl... and you can't hide properly behind objects and walls... 
 those two things are basic requirements, at least for my taste on shooters.
  
  Other thing is that you get shot a lot... as a consequence from not being able to hide and shoot 
 at the same time... so the answer for that is that you can "fix" yourself with an apparently unlimited 
 supplement of syringe shots to your chest... that serves to give the game continuity but takes 
 away precaution and tactics.
  
  All and all, this is more an Action-Shooter than a Tactical Shooter... buy or rent this game with 
 that in mind...
  
  I expect to update this review later on the game but for now, these are my impressions.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villihamson
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  got my bad company disc day it came out and played through the game on hard got bout 485 gs in 
 a weekend i was happy with it then it froze while i was playing online, i just restarted but kept 
 freezing sent it back and same thing happened to it, not red ring of death coz all other games 
 work but that one so got refund and got guitar hero aerosmith. 
  this is a great game i just don't know why it kept freezing, irritating, but was a very addictive 
 game. i was a big fan of battlefield 2 and not once did it freeze probably my 360 or something 
 dunno, doesn't affect the quality of the game but 2 different discs freezing can't just be a problem 
 with my cop it might happen to others, buuuttt my opinion on the game.....
  it's worth getting and nothing like shooting through a wall to kill someone with a tank :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  As this game appearently is going for military realism, and humor, it pulls it off well.
  
  Though some parts of this game are pretty cartoony and seem unrealistic, other parts are quite 
 true to life. The realism in destroying walls and other structures with endless amounts of explosives 
 is believable, though the damage of weapons, the amount of rounds in a clip, the 3D renders of 
 the first person weapons, and other small tid-bits make it unrealistic in those dimensions.
  
  The single player mode finally introduces something new to a Battlefield game, an actual storyline. 
 And a quite good one if I may add. Though corny humorous, it packs the intensity and harshness 
 of a real war.
  
  The online Multiplayer is just as intense as the campaign. Hordes of vehicles, troops of infantry, 
 and  The balance of the classes surely could use tweaking, but 
 for the most part, nothing is unbearably overpowered. As intense as the fighting can become at 
 points, it may seem impossible to formulate a real strategy other than killing any enemy you see 
 with your primary weapon. But if you're lucky, you can lay a trap of C4 under that bridge or lay 
 down an Anti-Tank mine discreetly, but chances are, you will be shot at first sight.
  
  Overall, Battlefield: Bad Company is an above average military shooter. Nothing "knock your socks 
 off" impressive, but still a must have (while you wait for better games.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_joseph93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building but not the 
 roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building 
 but not the roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every 
 building but not the roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every 
 tree every building but not the roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats 
 Nuts every tree every building but not the roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow 
 it up! thats Nuts every tree every building but not the roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance 
 to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building but not the roofs! .... Well it just gives you 
 the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building but not the roofs! .... Well it just 
 gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building but not the roofs! .... Well 
 it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building but not the roofs! 
 .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building but not 
 the roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every building 
 but not the roofs! .... Well it just gives you the Chance to Blow it up! thats Nuts every tree every 
 building but not the roofs! .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikavnieks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  First off single player, you play as one of four renegade soldiers of Bad Company, that go AWOL 
 when they stumble upon something really worth fighting for.
  Let me just say the single player was decent, If there was an objective to get to there was numerous 
 was you could get o it, on foot, vehicle or stealth (sort of) Although it gets kind of annoying 
 having to heal yourself constantly since you will get shot alot of times, There are some really 
 humerous parts in the campaign that you can't help atleast chuckle at.
  Another thing, 90% of the enviroment is destructable, enemy hiding in a house? one shot of your 
 grenade launcher and they'll be fully exposed! For single Player Alone i would give it a solid 
 8/10
  
  Now, Multiplayer, In my opinion the best part of this game, Although you may need alot of practise 
 to be 'good' one game mode? so what! It's great! the attacking team must destroy the Gold crates 
 any way possible, while defenders must do their best to defend the crates and kill the attackers 
 to win, You can unlock gadgets and weapons as you climb through the ranks! and win medals for your 
 style of play, for example, if your a support class and heal your squad you will get the medic 
 trophy/medal, with twelve a side there is just so much mayhem mixed with tactics that keeps bringing 
 you back for more.
  The only bad points are that you can only talk to three other people in your team (your squad) 
 And barely anyone talks so its hard to play tactically, secondly for some people there is only 
 one game mode - Gold rush, but Conquest mode is coming soon! One mroe thing, hit detection isn't 
 that great
  I would Give the multiplayer 9/10 despite it's flaws 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company overall is a solid game, but failed to deliver on my expectations. The 
 campaign was nothing special, not to imply I expected differently mind you. The games music is 
 pretty much the same dry/"classics" you can hear in previous Battlefield titles. I had no issues 
 with the graphics. I'm not one of those people who believes graphics make the game though. The 
 AI was ok, but definitely could of been better in my opinion. The biggest draw for people playing 
 this game seems to be the multiplayer, but honestly I didn't care for it. I can't pinpoint why 
 either, I just didn't like it. The game has one very over powered item in my opinion, and it happend 
 to be my favorite item in campaign mode. The mortar call in Battlefield: Bad Company used properly, 
 and frequently; can make you unbeatable. I also felt that the games title should of been Battlefield: 
 Naughty Company or Sorta Bad Company. Anyone who has beat the game knows what I'm talking about. 
 The worst part of the game however was the lack of multiplayer campaign mode. Multiplayer campaign 
 mode at this point in gaming should be a requirement for games, especially first person shooters!! 
 All in all, Battlefield: Bad Company isn't a bad game, but I'd be hard pressed to suggest anything 
 more then to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  first off the story line was greeeaaatt!!! loved it
  you play Preston Marlow the rookie to the crew that is in this crew that have been to me in trouble 
 or gone down the wrong road. the army basically gets them to do jobs that they dont want to do.. 
 so the character are Sergeant **** they all some how lucked up on some gold but one MAJOR problem 
 there enemies has the gold so they make sorta a pack to go after it while doing so your three comrads 
 gets kidnap so the only person that didnt get kidnap was YOU GUESS IT Preston marlow (you) lol.. 
 so you go after them and yada yada yaha blah blah .. cant tell you the rest.. i be a spoiler....
 
  but the graphics: it gets an 8
  for all of you that likes to play marks men in the game
  i was really disappointed in the sniping ability that they gave me in the game but over all good..
 
  will i play again maybe if it isn't anything else to play
  .. k for you big time achievement people out there fantastic achievements.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivar1987
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  I really had low expectations for this game- I was thinking pointless single player mode with shooting 
 gallery gameplay, static brainless opponents and a weak storyline. In a nutshell I was expecting 
 a repeat of every other Battlefield game- multiplayer aside.
  It's actually a fun and rewarding mix of exploration and shooting. A sense of humour is the icing 
 on the cake. It has awesome weapons, and even more awesome tools. The mortar target designator 
 is particularly satisfying- in fact its worth the price of admission alone. Simply point at undesirable 
 location and let it rain. Enemies could be hiding anywhere so make sure you use it to demolish 
 every building/ tree/ empty space in sight- just because it never gets old. Take your time while 
 playing. I recommend you make time to explore the huge levels in single player- you may find yourself 
 in a position where the objective is caked with tanks and guided missiles and your sitting with 
 your squad 2 miles away with no ammo. Why rush in? Its striking how gigantic the single player 
 levels can be- so grab an armoured van and explore. You'll see weapons and special pick ups marked 
 appropriately with 'X's on your map. Go for the ones farthest away- they're usually the most worthwhile. 
 In one level I noticed an isolated island. Miles from my objective, but whatever. I jacked a handy 
 power boat and checked it out. I was rewarded with the seckciest sniper rifle in the game. Result!
 
  To boost replay value, BFBC gives you a list of every weapon in the game to collect. It's a nice 
 touch, and it's worth you're while because every weapon looks and sounds a treat. You'll also get 
 some achievement points. If you want to squeeze out some extra value, try collecting all the cases 
 of god bars in the game. They're not marked on you're map and in my experience are tricky to find, 
 given the huge maps and many small towns and villages.
  In conclusion, I think anyone who has been playing shooters like COD4 and Rainbow 6 might enjoy 
 this- BFBC gives you an amount of freedom not to mention vehicles to drive that is extra satisfying 
 after all the tight corridor shooting everyone's been doing lately. Multiplayer's excellent too, 
 I can't deliver a thorough analysis of it yet, but it seems pretty tight and fun so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsicloneOblivio
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign is fun and has it's humourous moments. The game is easy, so if you're 
 an experienced gamer, don't be afraid to play it on hard. The ending is very well done and will 
 leave you feeling good, unlike a lot of games nowadays that try to pull as much money as they can 
 by making sequels.
  
  The multiplayer is intense and action packed. There is so much going on around you that you'll 
 rarely be left out of the fight. The learning curve is somewhat steep, that and the fact that all 
 the other players will have weapons unlocked will reinforce this. However, you level up quickly 
 (Rank 5 in approx 1-2 hours of multiplayer. Rank 25, the highest rank, in approx. 30-40 hours of 
 multiplayer) , so you will be able to reinforce your favourite classes early.
  
  Apparently 775 characters are not enough for a review, so I'll end it with this. If you love FPS 
 games, you will put 20-60 hours into it and then leave it forever. If you can get anywhere between 
 20 and 60 hours of gameplay out of a game in the age we live in, it's a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. It combines great physics with interesting game play. Don't like a wall? 
 knock it down. Too lazy to find a door? Knock down a wall. Also, the life injection thing is pretty 
 cool too, but having the entire game being built around that feature is pretty lame. Oh, and the 
 graphics aren't very good
  
  Now for some annoyances and problems here. Having the entire game being based around the injector 
 and physics causes a ton of problems. One, is your easiness to die. I died a good 15 times trying 
 to kill a tank because I didn't have rpgs, and had to use a grenade launcher. Also, the A. I is 
 incredibly messed up. Sometimes it is punishingly hard, other times its incredibly easy. The enemies 
 will occasionally stand in place in the open, and think they're covered. Also, it is too hard to 
 kill a tank without rpg's. If you think you are covered, you usually aren't. If you hide in a building, 
 the tank shoots down the walls and kills you way too quickly. Also, DICE didn't take enough time 
 to make wood float. Thanks dice :P
  
  The multiplayer was my favorite part of the game. I didn't play much multiplayer though, and only 
 hit level 7. They balanced out the grenade launcher for multiplayer, so that was great. They also 
 made you have to buy the life thing. They have an unlock system, so every 2 levels you get a credit (i 
 think) . You can spend these credits on mortar launchers, airstrikes, mines, c4, and the life thing. 
 This system works, but can give you two levels of hell if you buy the wrong thing. Also, getting 
 points is easy, and generous, which is my favorite part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedigoog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company. One of the best FPSs since Call Of Duty 4. What do these have in common? 
 They are 100% the same. The gameplay is absolutely terrific. The sounds and rumbling of the controller 
 really make you feel like you are right there in the game. Is there any more to say? Oh yeah... 
 The bad... The only thing I didn't like about this game was the fact tat it only has one multiplayer 
 mode. Not to fear though, because the BF: BC team is looking ou for the little people. A few more 
 game modes are set tobe released in mid july. Though there was only one game mode for online, even 
 that aspect was great because there weren't to many game rules to memorize. All together, this 
 game, whether it be the awesome gameplay or the massively multiplayrer FPS feel of it, this game 
 is an instant classic of the first person shooter world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewdogg58
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company was the first of the battlefield games i have ever played and now I know 
 why people told me they were so great. It has a surprisingly good story mode where you are a convict 
 sent to the army to do better use of your time then sit in a cell. You arrive meeting your team 
 of four, your Sargent, who cant wait to get out of the army and go on a fishing trip, and two other 
 guys who are stereotypes of convicts, one who has a wide range of knowledge and the other who loves 
 to blow stuff up. You fight against the Russians and their mercenaries for half the game and then 
 are disbanded from the army and the four of you are on your own. You find early in the game that 
 the mercenaries are being paid in gold bars and for extra gp's on the xbox and some extra time 
 to find hidden treasures in the game. The four of you just want to get out of the army and get 
 rich and go back to reality. It was a very fun game not too long but not too short. I personally 
 wished it was a bit longer but they ended it right with the story and there wasn't really to much 
 more to do, and like usual EA left the ending very possible for another Battlefield: Bad Company.
 
  All in all i give BF: BC a solid 9 out of 10 great game!
  ~Andrew Hughes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty221b
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  first of all this review is only about BFBC's Singleplayer mode, 
  among battlefield series i've only olayed the BF: vietnam on pc which which was a medicore game, so 
 i cant say if bad company is the best in the series or not
  but one thing is obvious BC's SP is a total letdown, as usual ur teammates are worthless for example 
 right when a little battle starts ,RPG man shoots his only 
  shot to a pointless spot just to prove that he can shoot, after that he just roams like whole of 
 that conflict like a lovelorn with an unarmed rocket luncher, your mates barely help u or kill someone 
 specialy when u're looking at them, one of another negative parts is lack of variety among the guns, mos 
 of guns u find on the ground are useless, there is no real difference between them and most of em 
 don't have ammo. game has some good ideas ofcourse like cars, boats, etc which u can use them all 
 ,but there is nothing new, what i've enumerated are a part of battlefield's identity from old days, so 
 no reason to get excited about them, by the way conflicts are repetitive as hell, just kill some 
 stupid enemies, set the explosive and go, u can make your way through the walls by shooting them 
 but what a shame u don't need it really sometimes i even forget this ability while playing .
  graphics: oh well ,acceptable but could be much better, u can feel wind blowings among the grasses 
 but explosions just look boring, unnatural and trifled,,
  unlike the COD4 clouds atleast move across the sky but don't look at them carefully, if they weren't 
 on the sky u wouldn't findout that they are actually clouds,. well..
  as usual of recent shooting games characters and guns are really well designed .
  BUT what u'll 
 hear is the only praise worthy part of bad company,. sound track and sound effects, except of car's 
 radio which was pointless to me look.. it's a battle field right? it would be better if they had 
 expended this energy on those countless flaws ,beside that sounds are really really smooth and 
 acceptable, shame it couln't lead the game to higher level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Despite being another first person shooter in an industry littered with them, Battlefield Bad Company 
 stands out of the crowd, if only for a short time. In the singleplayer, you take control of Preston 
 Marlowe, a new member of Bad Company. Bad Company is basically the rogues of the US military. The 
 expendables and ones no-one cares about. This means you get the hardest missions with the least 
 support and expected to die. When you don't, HQ sends you on another mission hoping you'll all 
 die on the next one. Once joining B-Company at the start of the first mission, you will proceed 
 right to the end of the game with 3 squad mates. Sweet-water Haggard and Sarge make up your squad 
 and not only protect and fight alongside you the whole way, but throw in funny comments and remarks 
 along the way. While the story of this game is original, following a similar plot line to the film 
 "Three Kings" where the rogue company goes awol in search of gold, that isn't what stands out. 
 This is the first game that has truly very destructible environments. From start to finish in the 
 seven extremely long levels, buildings, trees, pylons, virtually anything can be destroyed almost 
 completely. While the environment is not 100% destructible, the fact that a large percentage of 
 it is really adds to the game play making players seek new approaches to their play style. Alongside 
 destructible environments are the enormous maps both in single and multiplayer modes allowing plenty 
 of use of vehicles ranging from boats, golf carts and choppers. The maps are so large that a vehicle 
 is needed very often to reach a new objective. It is worth noting also that some missions contain 
 multiple objectives which can be done in any order and more often than not, from different angles. 
 Driving your dune buggy to the nearby hill, you can snipe away the main force of an enemy base 
 then sneak in afterwards and finish them off. Alternatively, lay down a mortar strike, destroying 
 most of the cover then run in, guns blazing at the exposed Russians. Exposed is something that 
 you'll find happens a lot to the player, and less to the AI. The AI is clever in taking cover and 
 returning fire. Tanks and RPG infantry will level any cover you seek to hide behind within seconds 
 so the player is forced to keep moving or find any scrap of non-destructible environment to lurk 
 by. That said about the AI, they are aggressive. Snipe someone from afar and bullets will be streaming 
 your way instantaneously. This is the first down side to the game. Sniping is extremely slow, as 
 is reloading almost every weapon. Snipe an enemy and all AI in the region will open fire on you, 
 knowing exactly where you are. This leaves little scope for sniping an entire base without their 
 knowledge and is unrealistic in terms of the time it takes the enemy to find you. Combine this 
 with relatively clumsy controls and kit layout and it can often become frustrating both sneaking 
 and all out gun fights. I say clumsy because your weapon layout is allocated to the two bumpers. 
 Right bumper switches between your primary and secondary weapon. The annoying thing about this 
 is that a machine gun with attached grenade launcher counts as both of these; therefore there is 
 no small arm to switch to in moments of dire need. It's frustrating, taking heavy fire and in the 
 middle of an intense fight, to be forced to retreat in order to reload rather than expose a pistol 
 and finish the fight. The melee button is also badly positioned, being the Y button. In this case, 
 melee is slow and frustrating whereas it should be the opposite, quick, easy and rewarding (This 
 is where it wouldn't have been hard to take a leaf from other shooters i. e Halo, COD4) . Killing 
 the AI isn't very fun. While the sound effects and the game visuals are stunning as walls blast 
 to pieces and trees collapse under the tracks of a tank, simply mowing an enemy to the ground is 
 sadly boring. There is no satisfaction in a kill and the enemy also dies unrealistically sometimes 
 flipping or twitching into the air. The AI can also see you much easier than you can see them. 
 Quite often you'll search a village from afar, finding no enemies, only to enter it and find it 
 riddled with them. Sometimes the enemies don't load until you are close enough, therefore appearing 
 out of nowhere, and other times they are behind foliage and walls. Unfortunately, you never get 
 the same cover. Enemies will be hitting you with dead accuracy through forests and dense foliage 
 however they will be near impossible to find. Another downside is the health system which consists 
 of an old school number in the corner of the screen that decreases when you take hits. Take a sniper 
 round and the number 100 will go down to 40. The only way to boost your health back up is by shoving 
 an adrenaline needle into your chest which involves switching to it in your inventory, plunging 
 it into your chest, and returning to your weapon. In battles, this gets annoying, plugging yourself 
 every 30 seconds and while the intensity of the game could be insane, this constant distraction 
 along with weapon switches and slow reloads dulls the action a little. That all said, the single 
 player is awesome. The visuals are stunning with massive maps largely destructible and a lot of 
 scope to play it several times. The games story is linear and the objectives, while not completely 
 free, allow a lot of space for different approaches and player interactions. The weapons are all 
 fun to use, and blowing up buildings in whatever method you deem fit doesn't get old. Its great 
 fun planning your attack on an objective by planting C4 on a wall, blasting your way into a warehouse, 
 with guns blazing to take down the first enemies unaware of your arrival. Multiplayer I believe 
 is where the heart of this game lies. Battlefield has always been a multiplayer game, and although 
 the single player is very good and engaging, its the online modes that shine. There is only one 
 game mode called GOLD RUSH which is a basic attack and defend mode. One team defends gold crates 
 while the other attacks to destroy them. At your disposal are choppers, tanks, mortars, sniper 
 rifles, medics, and more making for some intense and explosive battles. The 24 player hosting allows 
 massive tank battles and infantry combat in and around buildings. Destructible environments allow 
 players to deplete their opponents cover before starting an assault. Both sides are great to play. 
 While defending, players must hold out choke points, seeking to down any enemies trying to destroy 
 the gold crates. As their cover slowly disappears, they are left increasingly vulnerable, adding 
 tension and realism to the game. As the attackers, you have a limited number of troops and times 
 you can respawn (which is a lot) so team work and sheer force is required to destroy the enemies 
 dug in hard. Its a great game. Ranking up is enjoyable and rewarding, giving the player access 
 to new and better weapons, making him/her a more formidable foe in the field and allowing him/her 
 to choose what weapon layout to take into battle according to their class. Classes can be chosen 
 at the start of each respawn so players can switch their play method according to what their opponent 
 is doing. All this combined with massive maps, loads of players and potential explosions, who can 
 complain? Battlefield is the first in the field with destructible environments, massive multiplayer 
 explosive battles (surpassing COD3) , and huge maps/missions allowing players to take their own 
 approaches to the game. While it isn't amazing, it is great fun and worth picking up, just to see 
 where the next gen of game physics is about to begin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samjac0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company starts you off as a soldier who disobeyed his superiors, but instead of 
 going to jail you take the choice of being transfered to "Bad Company" . They are a bunch of rag-tag, 
 no-good soldiers deemed *expendable* for various reasons (much like your own) . This game has a great 
 HUMOR-ridden campaign that will give you many laughs, from the awesomely destructible maps (though 
 i find it stupid that you can reduce a building to a frame but not destroy the building) , to the 
 short cut scenes between checkpoints that showing your men goofing off in the background. 
  The Xbox-live experience is what makes the game revolve, however, making the campaign pale in comparison 
 to the joys of going head -to -head against a human player, as well as unlockable guns. though 
 it has a few downsides, like only being able to talk to your squad (usually 4 of the 14 of your 
 team mates)
  and some glitch issues. 
  Overall Battlefield BC is a great must have game for xbox live owners, and though it has a very 
 well written storyline, it seems to be very un-replayable to the point where if you don't have 
 internet i would suggest only renting the game. But it will keep you occupied and happy through 
 out the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is much like the previous Battlefield games both found on PC and on Consoles 
 but given unique twists certainly making the previous titles true age truly show off. 
  
  The most critical addition to the game is ofcourse the Single-Player Campaign, which is something 
 completely new for the Battlefield franshise earlier only appearing as a human-vs-bot scenario 
 or plotless killing. This game features a storyline, unique characters and full-out voice-acting 
 and cutscenes and everything you'd come to except from a single-player title.
  You take the role of a soldier just tranfered to B-Company, or Bad Company after an incident and 
 link up with the guys of the squad and get off fighting some bad guys. It's nothing much more exotic 
 than that, but the game gets a twist when your squad is finding some gold and is off for their 
 (your) own little adventure away from the army. And while this sounds rather flat, it's kind of 
 fresh and very interesting throughout the start of the campaign and probably until the last third 
 of it. As the characters and the cutscene dialoge is the most interesting and fun thing about the 
 campaign it soon gets old, especially since the actual action could use some polish. The enemy 
 is extremely accurate, ending up with you stabbing a auto-injector in your chest virtually all 
 the time during combat while not recieving any help from your squad-mates simply shooting blind 
 and looking stupid and shouting stuff. Even if the comments your squad-mates are pulling off during 
 fights can be fun, it doesn't make up with their useless behavior. 
  
  With this said, the campaign is only a small part of the game which I'd look upon as a big tutorial 
 for getting a hang of things and hunting down some achievements to fill up your gamerscore. The 
 most important aspect of this game is the Multiplayer. With the game you'll end up having the new 
 Offense/Defense Mode called "Goldrush" with you and your squad- and team-members taking rounds 
 attacking and defending gold creates around the maps with two possible crates at a time. While 
 the defenders usually just wait the enemy in and bunkering themselves up the Attackers usually 
 gets alot of well-balanced and excellent looking and sounding vehicles, artillery, helicopters 
 and more cool toys. And throughout the Multiplayer you earn Score to Rank Up and end you with unlocking 
 weapons and tools for each of the five classes with four unlockable weapons each and one special 
 tool, such as the Sniper unlocking a Laser Designator used to scrap down tanks and stationary weapons 
 at a distance by calling in s user-guided bomb.
  The new mode works fantastic and is easy to get into and won't make you feel too sorry over the 
 original Conquest Mode not yet being present in the game. With this said, the original game mode 
 of Battlefield will be launched as a update after launch, for free. 
  
  Overall the game is extremely solid, even if the Single-Player is a bit unworhy the attention given 
 it's worth checking out and the characters and voice-acting is simply fantastic. Technicly this 
 game is one of the best looking games I've played, with extremely sharp textures, nice looking 
 explosions and physics and effects it's simply outstanding. Though there is a problem with the 
 visuals that is a bit of a concern, the image is a bit "grainy" in order to increase performance 
 - it sounds bad but it works, it won't drag down the visual quality enough to threat the experience 
 at all. And this little grainy effects could just as well be compensated with a lovely audio technology 
 being present in the game rendering Dolby 5.1 at its finest with lovely quality, calculations (such 
 as different environments altering the audio echo and such) and dynamic audio levels it's simply 
 a overall very fine piece of technology being present in the game. 
  
  So, if you're into Battlefield you can't miss this one out. Bad Company will make you laugh at 
 both Battlefield 2 and Call of Duty 4, both being great games for its time, but right now it appears 
 like a worthy successor has made it to the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_A_B_33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Battlefield bad company is quiet likely the best in the series and where it lacks in story line 
 it makes up in, online multiplayer. The games campaign is entertaining however after the first 
 few levels the gameplay begins to repeat. Don't get me wrong this game has stunning visual and 
 sound however it starts to get a bit old after a while, i recommend this game to any xbox live 
 junkies cause it will give you a great dose of what you need, more then enough weapons for each 
 class. Sometimes when playing the weapons do wired and strange things for example i have blown 
 up a few helicopters with the specialist class using the primary sub machine gun? reg sometimes 
 seems a bit off and player box's seem a little too tight. All in all it isn't that much of a bad 
 game but it's certainly far from perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company is definitely the best in its series and truly ramped it up several notches. The destructible 
 cover system has definitely been taken to a whole new plateau in what games can have in terms of 
 destructible environments. The campaign is definitely hilarious and told well. The campaign will 
 last you about 8 to 10 hours but is definitely worth the time. The game has a large array of weapons 
 that all look and sound beautiful. The game's MP is also a blast to play. It has 24 player MP, 
 12 on 12, that is just one mode but definitely fun. The mode is basically an attack and defend 
 mode with gold crates. The defenders have to defend these two gold crates at their base and the 
 attackers have to invade their base and either place a charge on it or just shoot at it with anything 
 until it blows up. Once both crates have been destroyed, the defenders base is then moved to another 
 where they will have to defend another two gold crates. Basically, the attackers job is to keep 
 blowing up the gold crates at the bases until ALL bases are captured and the defenders job is to 
 defend the crates until the attackers run out of reinforcements. Overall, Bad Company is definitely 
 a near perfect game with just a small problem, grainy looking graphics but it still looks good. 
 Other than that, its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  First things first, after playing the demo for Battlefield: Bad Company my interests was almost 
 totally losted, and decided to buy Battlefield: Bad Company was a tough decision. Despite some 
 very solid reviews I still couldn't remove the demo experience out of my head. Let me explain, 
 Bad Company doesn't make the best first impression, graphically the first levels in the single 
 player campaign don't look peticularly great and one of my biggest issues was actual combat which 
 seem to be taken very heavily from DICE's first Console Battlefield game in Battlefield: Modern 
 Combat which was released near launch of the console. The actual controls do feel sluggish and 
 slow, a big issue Modern Combat had, but unlike Modern Combat, Bad Company goes on to be a superb 
 shooter once you get use to its few flaws.
  
  Red Faction came to mind when playing this for obvious reasons, the games much talked about 'total 
 destructional environment' doesn't seem to impressive in the first level, but once the action gets 
 going its trully impressive tho defiantly not 'total destruction'. Walls blow apart, things blow 
 apart a lot and generally there are some spectacular explosions... its all so much fun that never 
 gets old and will leave you with a huge gaming smile on your face. But, the destructable environments 
 wouldn't work if it weren't for the games superb, trully amazing sound effects and general sound 
 quality. BC features some of the best sound in any game to date frrom gun rattle to super load 
 explosions, its all so brilliant and defiantly one of the defining aspects from DICE newest shooter. 
 Gaphical the explosions are also superb, with very realistic smoke effect from burnt out vehicles 
 and general style of combat is very impressive. Its where BC trully comes alive.
  
  But its not where BC trully shines, its every aspect that makes the game so much fun and worth 
 every penny. Vehicles are vaired and drive/feel great tho tricky at first (most noticeable is the 
 Helicopter which is a hell of a lot easier to fly then the ones in Battlefield 2) and thats why 
 BC works, its still Battlefield deep in its soul yet they have made it so perfectly suited for 
 the console market. Later levels in the game are also huge and are great fun to travel around. 
 Now onto one of the games shining features, Humour! something not many games do a lot of if even 
 at all yet BC as some fantasti humour all throughout the single player campaign. As a new member 
 of Bad Company, a company of lawless, screwed up soldiers who the US Army can't be bothered to 
 send to jail for crimes they have commited. The story is great, tho it takes a bit of a 'three 
 kings' approach it is very different to what you see in games nowadays, and as there is a war going 
 on around you, all you and your squad care about is the gold. Very funny with great characters 
 in Private Terrane sweat. water, Haggard, Sergeant Retford who just wants his fishing trip and the 
 ever so funny President Zavomir Serdar. Voice acting is great and never takes itself to serious. 
 There is a great mix of weapons and vehicles as you would expect from a Battlefield game and they 
 all feel very powerful, tho tanks and other certain vehicles do seem to get to easily torn apart 
 in the heat of battle when you have enemies with RPG's around. But you can repair them. The game 
 also allows you to often heal yourself with injections, tho this at first seems to make the game 
 feel easy, later levels will find you using it endlessly especially on tougher levels of difficulty. 
 You can die surprisingly easy in BC, especially when a helicopter is on your backside endllessly 
 without any RPG or weapon to take it down. But thankfully you mostly get respawned instantly tho 
 sometimes in specific areas you find yourself needing to travel a little bit to much to get back 
 into the action from the respawn point. The single player is a lot of fun, with great humour and 
 a bit of a cliff hanger ending I suspect a sequel is already being worked on.
  
  Of course you can't have a battlefield game without multiplayer, and on the most part thats how 
 you would suspect it to be. My only personal issue is that there is currently only one mode in 
 Multiplayer, that being Gold Rush. Thankfully DICE have confirme that due to huge demand they will 
 be releasing Conquest (the mode Battlefield is famous for) as a free download in a few months time. 
 You get Gold Rush which is fun, basically a attack/defend kinda thing but works well, tho not as 
 good as conquest in my personal opinion. Multiplayer is solid and fun, maps are generally great 
 and theres still a superb feel to the game. You can also unlock new weapons and the classes are 
 surprisingly fun, for instance the Medic which actually can be a lot of fun to play, almost as 
 fun as the Team Fortress 2 medic. The Multiplayer isn't just the main meat to BC, the single player 
 will probably be a lot of fun to play through multiple times and Bad Company as a game will last 
 a good while.
  
  OVERALL:
  Superb Single Player and Multiplayer Modes, Great Sound and Superb Humour Make Battlefield: Bad 
 Company one of the best shooters of the year! A Must have for FPS fans.
  
  PROS:
  - Humours trully interesting single player campaign.
  - Fun Battlefield orientated Multiplayer.
 
  - Superb Sound, Graphics and general feel to the game.
  - Destructable environments done right.
  
  CONS:
  - Doesn't make a great first impressions.
 
  - Combat and Vehicle controls can take sometime to master.
  - Some questionable blurry textures here an there.
  
  I Give DICE's Battlefield: Bad Company: 
 9/10.
  
  A MUST HAVE FOR ANY CONSOLE COLLECTION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  I have very much enjoyed Bad Company. The memories of my first time ever playing the demo were 
 fantastic. Destroying a wall and bursting into the room, gunning down all of the enemies inside... simply 
 amazing. Never before has such a destructible environment been seen in a game.
  
  There isn't too much to say about the online multiplayer. It is simply fantastic. Fast-paced firefights, 
 large-scale tank battles, artillery raining down, entire buildings being destroyed, and total chaos. 
 Just like a real war. Anyone who enjoys competitive online first-person shooters will definitely 
 enjoy Bad Company. The multiplayer is incredibly addicting, especially with the ranking system. 
 It will make you want to keep playing so you can unlock all of those shiny cool weapons.
  
  However, the single player campaign is very much flawed. Don't get me wrong, I like the story and 
 characters in the campaign, but throughout the campaign I felt myself getting angry. Because I 
 kept dying. The campaign is hard, but for all the wrong reasons. Rather then making the enemy AI 
 smart, tactical, and overall skilled... they made the AI absolutely stupid, but throw such massive 
 numbers of them at you, that it will challenge you at first... but frustrate you later. You are 
 a single four-man team, and you are having all kinds of vehicles and everything thrown at you... sometimes, 
 it almost seems an entire army is battling you.
  
  I like a challenging game. I like games that test your skill. But the single player campaign in 
 Bad Company does not challenge your skills, but rather your endurance. Tanks/armored cars will 
 constantly show up and rain on your parade, especially when sometimes there are simply no anti-tank 
 weapons around. You will also likely find yourself running out of ammunition very quickly. This 
 is the reason why Bad Company's campaign is so frustrating.
  
  The bad part is, the characters are entertaining and interesting, but they aren't fleshed out enough. 
 You will eventually find yourself fighting through boring firefight after firefight, just to see 
 cutscenes and finish the game. I know I have found myself doing this. The reason is that the enemies 
 aren't hard to kill in the slightest. They will run in circles, stand around and reload, fire and 
 miss consistently, scream and yell, but they always get killed... unless about 300 of their buddies 
 show up and obliterate you with sheer numbers.
  
  And yet another issue I have with Bad Company, is the fact that it also suffers from the 'One Man 
 Army' syndrome. Meaning you do EVERYTHING in the game. Your squad-mates hardly help, stand around 
 while you dispatch of enemies, make witty comments when they aren't doing anything, and sometimes 
 even cause you to be detected by the enemy. The characters are great, but the AI in the game, like 
 all Battlefield games... is simply annoying and incredibly stupid.
  
  Overall, Bad Company is mainly for those who want a multiplayer shooter. Those of you looking for 
 a rich single player campaign, look for Call of Duty 4. If you have enjoyed any online first-person 
 shooter, then I'm sure you will enjoy Bad Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrat99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company... Where to begin?
  I'll start with singleplayer first, since that's most likely what you are going to go to first.
 
  You start off with a cutscene saying you've been transferred to B-Company for something you could've 
 gone to jail for.
  Boring stuff out of the way, you'll spend most of your time fragging any Russian who gets in your 
 way between you and the Mission Objective (and there are A LOT) or the Gold, which is the driving 
 point for the story. Fairly standard Melee, Assault rifle most of the time, you might switch it 
 up with a sniper or shotgun, but there's rarely any ammo.
  
  Any point is that there is no consequence for dying.
  Sometimes it even rewards you.
  Say you're 
 in a tank and it gets taken out. You get out just before it explodes, take out everything, then 
 die from reinforcements. You'll simply spawn back at the last checkpoint in whatever vehicle you 
 were in, but whoever died before, stays dead.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Standard attack/defense gameplay.
  Not to say that that's bad.
  I was addicted.
  Anyways, 
 five classes, Assault, Recon, Demo, Support, Special.
  As you gain ranks through exp. you get credits to unlock additional weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  gameplay 8/10 -great but lacked the commander class from BF2 anf BF2142 and could have more big 
 maps like oasis and single player is good but some maps can get repetitive. many missions fell 
 the same
  
  Grafix 9/10 -probily the best they could have done for the 360. but iwas hopeing for more phisics 
 items laft after a wall was blown up like in the really old test videoes.
  
  Sound 10/10 -pobily the best sounding game outthere. the guns sound real. insted of corny sound 
 like in Halo all you hear is lond bangs and there is no generaic back round sound. every gunshot 
 in the ditance is from other players which i think is awsome.
  
  now to be more specific
  
  the good-
  added destuction- craters, buldings, ALMOST everything
  excelent sound FX
 
  
  the bad
  could have had bigger MP maps with 32 or even 64 play maps like in BF2
  its not truely 100% dertuction some walls in bulding are indesrtucable
  MORE MP MAPS!!!!!!
 
  
  the ugly 
  ITS SUPOSED TO BE BATTLEFIELD WERE IS CONQUEST? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed great at first, but a massive mistake on controlls and otherwise blah gameplay 
 failed to impress.
  
  Graphics: A very strong suit for this game. really shows the power of the 360. Explosion, particale 
 affects, dust, sparks, you name it look very real.
  
  Gamplay: This is where it suffered. First, and my biggest gripe, would be controls. YOU HAVE NO 
 ADJUSTABILITY! I grew up with FPS on computer. When they moved to console the used a stick setup 
 called legacy. It was default then, but it is known as legacy now. It is what I'm used to. It isn't 
 offered in this game. First massive screwup. Second on the controls came from the overall just 
 stupid layout of it. You have all these different buttons you hit to get this and that, but it 
 really just doesn't make sense. The average soldier has a rifle, maybe a side arm, and if he has 
 any special weapons purpse (demo or anti arm) then he may carry one of those plus some spare ammo 
 if necessary. This game requires you to just push a single button for each. Kinda dumb when you 
 realy only have a max of 3 weapons to pick from. The game play for single player lacks too. bad 
 attempts at humor, stupid ai, and overall a lack luster story leaves you wantting more. Multiplayer 
 feels alot like BF2 except instead of taking over points you are blowing up chests of gold. 
  
  On the up side the destructive enviroments are sweet. The first time you blow open a wall, 
 charge in an kill everyone in the room that was basically stunned from it, you will feel some magic. 
 The Classes work well too. Just too bad they are exactly like BF2. 
  
  This game is BF2 with a different wrapper (bf2142 anyone?) , but it certainly falls short of what 
 they hyped it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konradak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company (BC) wants to be the bigger, cooler, more popular sibling of its' older 
 brothers and sisters. With a real single player story experience, a large 32 player online component, 
 and destructible environments, BC really looks like it's pulling the punches. Here is a break down 
 of the different parts of the game and my opinions on em.
  
  Single player : 7 / 10
  It's fast, fun, and funny. Best pay to put it. The story itself isn't much more than you would 
 expect from an average game, but it's the characters that really make it better than average. Each 
 character from B Company has their own unique personality and charms. Their funny dialogue and 
 charm makes the average story worthy playing through.
  The gameplay is fun, featuring many vehicles and on-foot sequences. The best part about them is 
 most the time you can decide how to solve a problem without the game holding your hand through 
 it and making you do it their way. The open maps really make the game seem big also, and the missions, 
 even though there are only a few, are really long and enjoyable even on the hardest difficulty.
 
  
  Multiplayer : 9 / 10
  This is where it is at. There are 5 classes to choose from, each with their own different weapons 
 and unique abilities. Each plays well and are very useful in the game. There seems to be more people 
 gravitating toward the 
  Recon (sniper) class than others, but the problem has significantly decreased since launch. Each 
 class has its' own use and none of them seem overpowered. Balance was clearly something that EA/Dice 
 worked on.
  The maps, although not many, about 8 or so, are all big and very well created. Never yet have I 
 wished for more maps or something different, and I've already put more time into it than most other 
 multiplayer games I play. Each plays out differently as vehicle or on-foot oriented maps, and never 
 does either/or feel more powerful than the other. Vehicles are obviously safer and stronger to 
 travel in, but almost every class has something or another to use against them, and stationary 
 weapons are littered throughout to help squash them.
  Overall the 32 player count seems to work just perfectly. One minor thing is you can only have 
 voice communication with your own squad and that obviously creates problems if you want to tell 
 someone not in your squad to slow down so you can repair their tank. Another thing, just like with 
 any other online game, there are those who don't follow the rules and team kill, glitch, bug, and 
 boost. And there are those who just play suck and seem to have no clear idea of what "Defend" means.
 
  This brings me to another point. There is only one game mode, and although it is fun and well 
 made, it just seems weird that the game shipped with only one game mode. To EA's credit, they will 
 be releasing another popular game mode from their previous BF games later on for free, just seems 
 weird it didn't ship with the game.
  One last thing, there is a reward system similar, but better than, Call Of Duty 4's that really 
 makes playing online great rewarding experience. And if you register to the BC website you can 
 view extensive stats about how you play. It's not necessary, but fun and interesting.
  
  Technical : 9 / 10
  Graphically, I find it pleasing. There are a few amazing moments, some parts 
 yucky, and most is just plain good.
  The destructive element of the game really brings new light into the game. The game is more exciting 
 knowing that wall you're hiding behind is only still standing there because no one has found you 
 yet. There are some setbacks though. I was hoping for whole building damage. You cannot topple 
 buildings, or destroy the upper stories. Only certain parts of the walls and the roofs are really 
 destructible. And bridges lol. Also, instead of the walls falling over from the explosion, they 
 instead just disappear into a puff.
  Guess I'll have to just wait for the new Red Faction for that..
  One more thing, the explosives 
 have no splash damage! Did you just shoot that rocket at a guy? Better hope it directly hits him 
 and not the ground around his feet if you want to kill him. Seems a little ridiculous sometimes 
 but, with all the explosions that happen, I'm assuming it's for balancing reasons.
  
  Overall : 8.5 / 10
  Great quality, sound, graphics, and most importantly, gameplay. Definitely 
 a quality purchase if you are looking for something fun, rewarding, and challenging online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nucksfan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a game of extremes. On one hand, when it gets going, the multi player has the potential 
 to be amazing, but it rarely lives up to what it tries to accomplish. The weapons tend to be unbalanced 
 with the most powerful machine gun is easily outclassed by a silenced compact automatic at long 
 range!!! Vehicles are fun but frustrating to use since a tank can be destroyed with what seems 
 to be a single grenade while the tanks shell needs a direct on a enemy to inflict any damage whatsoever. 
 I'm sure you could argue the opposite is true and I wouldn't disagree. This is only because these 
 issues can probably be fixed with a patch, but many people will probably give up on Bad Company 
 before then. It does a lot right, but it could have used some extra polish to fix up some minor 
 issues that have significant affect on the game play. All that aside, this is a "great" game and 
 anyone should at least give it a try.
  The campaign is decent and is a good training tutorial with some story thrown in for good measure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brad_the_one
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield is one of those games that are beloved by many PC gamers and held in such high regard 
 that to consider putting the game on a console is blaspheme, but they rest easy when I tell you 
 that this game is fantastic. I held off buying this game on launch day because a part of me always 
 thought this game wouldn't be any good but boy was I wrong. The single player is great and has 
 a fulfilling story as well as some remember able characters who exchange some witty dialogue, through 
 out the game you grow fond of the rest of B company and genuinely care about them (not that they 
 can die though, because they can't) A great feature of this game is the destructible environment 
 where a lot of the terrain and buildings can be damaged. Don't want to go around the corner because 
 of an enemy tank? Then don't, pull your grenade launcher out and go through the building. It really 
 does add a whole new way of going about a level. This leads me on to my next point, the explosions 
 in the this game are incredible, they may not look as good as mercenaries 2 but they certainly 
 are impressive; from blowing holes in the walls to shoot strategically placed barrels, this game 
 has a great array of explosions and each one makes you look on in awe.
  
  Now the multiplayer is where the true meat is at, those of you who have played COD4 will fit in 
 like a glove here; you have your basic rank up system which is very welcome, as well as a system 
 where you collect dog tags, patches and wild cards which require you do complete certain actions 
 to obtain them. The maps are huge and are varied enough to make each one feel unique, but at the 
 moment there is only one mode available which requires you to either defend or attack gold crates, 
 but I for one think its great because it rewards team work far more than a basic death match would. 
 
  
  Now for the negative points. The first is that sometimes the game can suffer from 'black' syndrome 
 (no I am not being racist, it is a reference to a last gen game) , where by there are lots of barrels 
 and explosive boxes which are a convenient red colour, the problem with these is that it can sometimes 
 make you feel like if you aren't blowing up walls etc then you are playing the game wrong, where 
 they are placed so sparingly that it is harder to try to avoid hitting them than actually try, 
 but this is easily forgiven seeing as the game definitely has the destruction as a key element 
 of the game play. Another negative point is that there are certain 'extra' weapons that can only 
 be accessed through buying the gold edition of the game, visiting battlefield. com or reaching level 
 4 in the demo first, but the weapons on offer are not incredibly better so it isn't such a big 
 deal. This leads me on to one problem with the environment and that is why can we not shoot through 
 thin walls? The thing is, I understand that the thick walls cannot be blown down but why are we 
 unable to shoot through a fence? When you consider that environmental destruction is such as large 
 part of the game it doesn't make sense that they wouldn't incorporate this idea into the final 
 product.
  
  Now I will discuss achievements. There your basic achievements such as complete level X on medium/hard 
 (although if you want to get both you will have to complete the game twice because you don't get 
 the achievement for medium is you part on hard) , there are also achievements such as collect x 
 number of collectable, plus X number of gold. And others such as kill 25 enemies, climb to the 
 highest point of the game and then some multiplayer ones such as reach rank x and collect 50 dog 
 tags, so basic stuff then really.
  
  Overall I would definitely recommend this game. Great single player and very involving multiplayer 
 make this a complete package, even if you love COD4 this a welcome change with some great vehicle 
 combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RilesCole
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  The game shows a lot. And there seems to be a new generation with it. The destructible enviorment 
 on whether you want to mow down trees or just put a few holes here and there in the house. It seems 
 like you can take any approach to your objectives or complete which ever ones are assigned to you 
 at the time. The way you complete them could matter too, you never know what you're going to find 
 at each objective or along the way. Perhaps a new vehicle? Or maybe new equipment? Or perhaps some 
 more secrets along the way... The squad also shows lots of ardreneline. Though, there excitement 
 gets the same after a while and they show the same emotions on cut scenes. The cut scenes aren't 
 to short though, neither or they to long. The campaign gets old after a while though, but multiplayer 
 brings it back up just a bit. It is fun, but rather hard. You seem to move pretty fast, the weapons 
 don't seem to have enough power, and the sniper optics for the scope usually are bad to aim with. 
 But once you get the hang of it, it is really fun to play with, especially when destroying everything 
 in your path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 30 minutes
  
  Score: 9.5 out of 10
  
  If the ATeam was made into a 
 comedy and was also a game than you would have the game being reviewed in this post, Battlefield: 
 Bad Company, in this game you play Prestin Marlowe he's a man who can do almost if not everything 
 the squad can do, I like to think of him as a one man squad but you have others, who will help 
 you during your journey through the game. They are Sarge, Sweetwater and Haggard. Each comes with 
 their own special abilities like Haggard he's your demolitions guy and Sarge.... Sarge commands 
 like no one ever could than there is Sweetwater and he..... well he worries alot. every game needs 
 a pessimist I guess. The game starts out pretty normally your helping the US army against the Russians, 
 I don't remember if this was spose to represent a specific war or not so lets just say it's not 
 and it's a war your fighting for no reason. The one turn on this game has is it's destructible 
 environment your in a building being shot to hell by the Russians your stuck and you can't get 
 out.... answer is simple pull out your gun if it has a grenade launcher ability and blow the wall 
 out, presto you have a nice new door. The game utilizes alot of nice weapons each new weapon you 
 pick up will unlock as a collectibles that you can use later on (I'm not sure because I haven't 
 cracked open the multi player aspect of the game yet. I just completed the story mode) You'll be 
 able to drive anything during this game from troop carriers to golf carts, that's right you can 
 kick russian butt in a golf cart. The game also builds on the sense of family you get with the 
 other 3 members in your squad you'll hear everything from petty bickering to arguments than you'll 
 even see Haggard and Sweetwater play a friendly game of paper, rock scissors. The story really 
 kicks in when a merc group starts to move gold through Russia and your squad finds out, they get 
 a whif of gold fever when they are told they are expendable. The story is great all around. The 
 Sound is great when you fire a gun it really sounds like a gun when you fire it which is nice alot 
 of games today are so generic with their sounds, it's nice to hear such a realistic sound come 
 from a gun. The visuals are nice but could be better at times the look gets a little grimy with 
 the textures. It isn't as clean and pristine the entire game. The only other problem I had was 
 with the control I never noticed if I could change it but it just didn't seem to work that well 
 with me especially the stabbing ability. Pushing Y isn't a good idea you should just click a thumb 
 stick to stab. Last but not least the running, it doesn't seem that your character really runs 
 at all. more like stomps so if it wasn't for these little issues this would have been a perfect 
 game, it's still nice but it could have strived to be just a little better. So it gets a 9.5 out 
 of 10. If you like war comedy games you'll like this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: belzebubthe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer starts promising but the real depth of the gets me when I'm in the middle of a 
 crate defend mayhem constantly healing team mates and slaughtering enemies while coordinating the 
 defense via voice. I'm not this achievement guy - they are pretty well designed in BFBC - so I 
 had no interest in the campaign. I finished it yeah. But it's nothing compared to be in a tank 
 with your mate and supress the enemy with the proper aiming and manouvering of the vehicle while 
 your team blows up the crates. There are a few annoying bugs tho: Sometimes when you change weapons 
 back and forth they stuck and dont show anymore. Sometimes a clear headshot has no effect on the 
 enemy. Sometimes you can't connect ot ea servers at all. Other than these issues which will probably 
 going to be solved by the update (including domination) , this game is going to stay on my top for 
 a long long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyricistvipa
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a major improvement of its predecessor and is a quite enjoyable game. 
 The game story is very entertaining and quite funny. Is it hilarious... no, but is it funny... 
 yes. The main factor that will draw you into the game is the battlefield itself. With BC, you are 
 not constrained to only traveling to your destination one way, but can approach it from many ways 
 since the levels are in a sandbox style and are impressively open. When fighting enemy troops you 
 truely feel that you can... die. Now let me explain my admirable logic.
  
  In other shooters, even great shooters, when you hide behind a fence or a wall or some kind of 
 cover, you are basically safe. That's been routine for a while now. I know when I'm playing Halo 
 or COD that if I hide inside a building, nothing can get me, not a tank or anything unless someone 
 runs up on me with an annoyingly shiney, glowing, completely retarted, sword that does a stupidly 
 rediculous amount of damage because everyone........?
  
  I'm sorry I got carried away there. In BC however, there was several occasions when I tried to 
 hide behind a building and the enemy BLEW THE BUILDING UP! I mean it was just gone, and now I'm 
 getting shot and killed and stuff because some prick in a tank or with a rpg wanted to see me die. 
 GO FIGURE, but the beautiful thing about this is that you can do the same.
  
  In essence this game has shown one of the most true depictions of war and combat, nobody is ever 
 safe. The gun sounds and effects are on point and the enemy soldiers are well trained and a good 
 challenge. I found this game to be really good, and I hope you'll do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuicideVanV2
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Wow. And after being neck deep in this generation's console cycle the moments where I describe 
 a game as "Wow" are getting farther and farther apart. I'll break this game up into a few simple 
 categories for everyone; visuals, sound, game play, and multiplayer.
  
  Visuals are good, but not great in this game. The texture work is top notch and combining the destructible 
 environments with great and varied explosions is certainly eye candy on par with an old Arnie or 
 Sly Stalone flick. The lack of terrain variety hurts this game somewhat, but the excellent lighting 
 changes that accompany each mission make up for it somewhat. The game does suffer from some tearing 
 and frame rate issues, strangely enough I noticed none of these when engaged in the game play and 
 was more bothered by it during in game engine, first person, cut-scenes. The physics of the game 
 leave something to be desired visually. The environments are not as destructible as advertised 
 and each building is merely given a pre-set number of walls and ceiling spots that will disappear, 
 but once they are gone the remaining structure is invulnerable to even JDAMs. Enemy deaths are 
 a source of yawns, especially disappointing because each map is packed with so many explosives 
 you would expect it to be raining men (in a good way) . I guess this was done to get that ohh so 
 elusive "Teen" rating. There seems to be no distinction in how a person is shot and killed in relation 
 to how they die. This may seem like nitpicking, but at this point in video games, with the number 
 of high quality titles available these issues are unforgivable when I'm dropping 60 bones on a 
 AAA title.
  
  Sound... here is where this game shines head, shoulders, and severed torso above any other FPS or 
 combat related game. Enemy soldiers yell in Russian and broken English. A wealth of different firearms 
 crack and punctuate breathtaking explosions from all directions. As a former paratrooper that served 
 three tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan I have never played a game that captured the symphony 
 of battle with such realism. The weapons sound closer to their real life counter parts than anything 
 I've ever heard in gaming or cinema. I rarely encounter a game that despite shortcomings on other 
 major categories I am telling people they have to play it for the sound engineering work. If come 
 January this game is not winning an award for sound I will be deleting my account from Gamespot.
 
  
  Gameplay, like the visuals in this game has its high and low points. The environments for the single 
 player are large and mainly broken up into series of objective building clusters throughout the 
 Balkan countryside and occasional ambush encounters while on movement to these objectives. With 
 dozens of weapons, gadgets, and vehicles at your disposal it is up to you how you go about completing 
 your mission. About mid-way through the game the main character becomes separated from his squad. 
 This was the first time the game's flaws really show. It wasn't that the AI was that good for the 
 NPCs, they can barely kill anything and it is lucky they are invulnerable due to the number of 
 explosions that occur in their proximity. I mainly missed the color commentary the voice work provided. 
 Without that distraction I noticed the game becomes fairly repetitive once you figure out a foolproof 
 strategy that involves a certain Russian mortar ordering iPhone. The responsiveness and overall 
 intuitiveness of the gameplay is not as sharp as Call of Duty 4 or Rainbow 6: Vegas (2) , but the 
 wealth of weapons, gadgets and vehicles keep things slightly above average on the single player 
 campaign. The collection of weapons and gold in the single player mode seems like a well intentioned 
 way to extend this game's shelf life, however searching the huge maps for bars of gold and hidden 
 rifles (even if these are often marked with an X on the map) quickly becomes a chore that you just 
 don't care about. One of the biggest issues this game has is the difficulty level. This game is 
 EASY, even on the hardest difficulty. You have... unlimited lives. The penalty for games like this 
 used to be a loading screen and being forced to take the objective over again from the last save 
 point. In Battlefield Bad Co. you respawn almost immediately at a predetermined point on the map, 
 usually next to some weapons and a brand new vehicle. It is kind of hard to be thrilled by the 
 cacophony of battle when you are running low on ammo, and instead of fighting your way through 
 mercenaries to make it to that ammo box, you just stand still and wait to die so you can respawn 
 with a full ammo pouch of bullets.
  
  Battlefield is a franchise that is no stranger to strong multiplayer action and this game is no 
 exception. Up to 24 players can duke it out in all the standard modes you have come to expect from 
 a FPS. The new mode "Gold Rush" pits teams in objective based gameplay to see who can get rich 
 by killing off the other team and claiming their cache for your own. Call it what you want, but 
 it is just tweaked capture the flag. Whether you put gold, enemy intel, hostages, or a bomb into 
 these games I'm not fooled, it is more or less, capture the flag. One thing the multiplayer does 
 have going for it over the competition is those crazy gadgets, rides and guns I mentioned earlier. 
 However, I have to wonder if those bells and whistles are enough to take on the core gameplay mechanics 
 of Halo 3 and COD 4 which currently reign supreme on FPS multiplayer.
  
  In the end I would say that this game is a must rent for any gamer and a good investment for FPS 
 fans thanks to the fantastic sound work on this title.
  
  All the Way, Airborne.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: COD3RULER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Batle feild bad compony is an awsome shooter. i realy love that everything is destructible . it 
 has a good singleplayer but the ai was kinda stupid didnt know how to take cover but there was 
 usaly so many that the game never felt easy. single player storyline is interesting but whith some 
 humor. theres a great selection of vhecles frome armored golf carts to tanks and helicopters. i 
 feel that the achivements could be harder or at least not have as much points to each. im not saying 
 i got all of em but u know.
  
  multiplayer : the multiplayer is probly what makes this game it is just so much fun with gold rush 
 were you have to eather defend gold crates or blow em up it may sound stupid but this proves to 
 be very fun with the canas to bomb the defender so laser designator to kill the ataking vehicles 
 i like the unlocking system because its all up to u not the crap were u have to get to a certain 
 level to unlock ur favorite wepon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4zumzum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I am disappointed that there is no 2 player co-op but not a big deal. I can't compare this to the 
 older battlefield games since this is the first of the battlefield series for me but when i played 
 the demo I have to admit I did get hooked. Jump in and start shooting with whatever you feel like. 
 Perhaps a rocket launcher or a sniper rifle? The full game has it differences.... when it took usually 
 2 rockets to take out a tank in the demo, is more like 4 in the full game. I haven't decided if 
 the online system of who kills who first is any better than Halo3's. Sometimes I can knife someone 
 2 times and they still have time to pop a few shots at you and KILL YOU! usually 1 knife is all 
 it takes. Shooting can get quirky too... I can use a more powerful gun that shoots decently fast 
 vs a fast shooter but weak.....50/50 who dies first evebn though I was shooting right at the head. 
 EA's system can get overloaded at times but not nearly as laggy as Halo3. The Find all five weapons 
 thing, nuisance but i guess after EA caught soo much heat for trying to charge people they last 
 minute gave this brilliant (yea.... right) concept of find all five for free. In the grand scheme 
 of things, the weapons even out..... it's just a matter of which you're most comfy with. Don't get 
 me wrong, still fun for the most part, but I'm not dying because i didn't get the Gold edition 
 or get it the 1st day realeased. The graphics are awesome. The vehicles are fun to use - heli takes 
 a bit to get used to ..... destructable environment certainly puts a new spin on things so don't 
 get used to hiding behind a wall while reloading a rocket cuz the tank's just gonna shoot it out 
 from you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WitcherGeralt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I've played Halo 3, Call Of Duty 4 and many other FPS's but, in my opinion, this 
 game tops them all.
  The maps are superb, weapon choices couldn't be better and the rewards are top-notch.
  Just when 
 I had been completely burned-out on HALO 3, this game comes out.
  Every player has 1 game that is their favorite and never gets old. Battlefield: Bad Company is 
 mine.
  I'll play it until my gaming days are over.
  
  A lot of people have complained about the "Boosting", guys flipping HumVees over and repairing 
 them while a friend sits in them.
  They rank up quickly. However, EA has slapped those guys with a big RESET of their Stats and Rank.
 
  Well done EA.
  I salute you.
  The Cheaters have been punished and the game is now very well-balanced.
  
  I've reached Rank 
 25 the honest way and am enjoying it tremendously.
  
  A Conquest Mode will be released soon and the guys who want it will be happy and the rest of us 
 will continue to enjoy the Gold Rush Mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickisimo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I played Battlefield 2 for an entire summer when it came out. Though the game had some issues, 
 I absolutely loved the action. I skipped out on the expansion to that and the subsequent Battlefield 
 2142 after some harsh reviews. When I saw the hype leading up to Bad Company, I felt like I had 
 to at least rent it and give it a shot.
  
  Let's start with the single-player campaign. The story actually starts off pretty well as you take 
 on the role of Preston Marlow, a soldier just assigned to Bad Company. A serious Sergeant, a redneck 
 Demo-expert and a motormouth recon soldier don't exactly welcome you with open arms. This B-Company 
 is the unit the Army sends in before calling in the big guns. I welcomed this change of pace from 
 the more-traditional 'you're a soldier in a special black-op unit' shtick. The game has a light-hearted 
 feel to it and it fits pretty well. There are definitely a few moments where you have to suspend 
 belief that 4 of the biggest screw-ups in the Army could pull off something quite that amazing 
 though.
  
  Along the way, the unit decides to try and serve its own needs and the game takes on a somewhat 
 different feel as you try and avoid not only the local forces but the American Army as well. Along 
 the 10 hours or so it takes to beat the single-player campaign you'll fight in various locales, 
 most of which look great. The first hour or two in the game is a thrill. It's only after you get 
 a little past that point that you begin to see the repetition.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the combat is a blast. Seeing cover get blown away by grenades and soldiers 
 hit the deck after you unload on them with a gritty burst is great fun. However, it seemed to me 
 like every mission (with the exception of one) revolved around the idea of "go here, kill everything, 
 walk to the smoke, rinse, wash, repeat". And like a lot of FPS's, the game ends sort of abruptly 
 with a feeling like things really didn't matter much. I applaud DICE for adding a new spin to the 
 classic tale, but in the end it still felt very much like every other FPS that's been done.
  
  Rather than the auto-heal ability seen in some series, such as CoD, Bad Company gives you a 
 health-injector as part of your inventory. Simply switch over to your items and jam that needle 
 in and you're immediately back at full health. There is a cooldown on this ability, but it's pretty 
 short. So, combat devolves into popping out in the open, firing off as much as you can before ducking 
 back behind some form of cover and injecting yourself. The AI is decent at times, hiding behind 
 cover and using emplacements to bring you to your knees. Other times, the AI soldiers stand out 
 in the open, sometimes not even facing you or firing. Add in the fact that when you die, you start 
 off from your last checkpoint with all the enemies that you killed still dead and the game becomes 
 fairly easy.
  
  All in all, the single-player campaign felt like a watered down version of better shooters. The 
 story was a cut above some FPS's, but the gameplay itself lacked the polish and options of Vegas 
 or GoW.
  
  The multiplayer really let me down. Being such a huge fan of BF2, I felt like the multiplayer portion 
 of the game would be great, given that most of the combat felt similar to BF2. I wish that were 
 the case. Once you get in a game (which can take some time, as it seems like sometimes no games 
 are available) , you have one type of gameplay to choose from, and very little in the way of options.
 
  
  There are 5 classes, all of which are useful in their own ways. Pick one, a gun, and then choose 
 where you want to spawn, either in a pre-determined place or with your squad. The game plays out 
 pretty easily, the attackers want to destroy gold crates and the defenders have to try and stop 
 them by reducing their tickets to zero. (which go down every time an attacker dies) . Attackers can 
 try and hit the crates from a distance, but the best method of destruction is to place a charge 
 right on the crate. And, that's basically it.
  
  Having only one gameplay mode wouldn't be bad if it was executed well, but something about Bad 
 Company's multiplayer mode just doesn't feel right. Combat feels awkward, and usually results in 
 someone getting killed before they have any idea of what's going on. Vehicles seem overpowered 
 as usual and without a proper Anti-Tank class, there's less you can do about it now.
  
  Bad Company looks and sounds great, which is perhaps its saving grace. The characters look well 
 detailed and the weapons and explosions look and sound much more authentic than in the CoD series. 
 It's a shame that the gameplay doesn't also hit that high standard. The single-player campaign 
 has its moments and by itself isn't bad, but the multiplayer suffers from dismal gameplay and a 
 single game type. It's sad to see the Battlefield series fall to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkadima
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  At first when I started playing this game, I thought it was amazing just because of the destructible-ness. 
 Well I soon discovered that the destructible-ness was really the only thing it had going for it.
 
  
  The campaign, while funny, is very short and very pointless. Most of the objectives are just to 
 run to a place, MAYBE kill the enemies there, and move on. The enemy AI has its moments of smartness, 
 but for the most part they really just pop in and out of cover until you shoot them. The friendly 
 AI is some of the worst I've ever seen. At most 5 times throughout the campaign did I see them 
 actually shooting at anything, and 4 of those times were probably at a wall or something.
  
  The multiplayer is fun and exciting for the most part, but today I had a strange occurrence 
 where the game deleted all of my progress, experience, and unlockables for no reason! Also, I've 
 noticed that the LMGs are way underpowered, and the pistols are way overpowered, so much so that 
 a pistol can kill you even if you get a head start with an LMG.
  
  Sure, blowing stuff up is fun, but definitely not worth 60 bucks. My suggestion, wait for the next 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company represents a fairly big step forward in the BF franchise, in that, for 
 the first time ever, there's a fully-functional singleplayer campaign. Make no mistake, the multiplayer 
 is back with a vengeance, but a good singleplayer only serves to add to the value of the package. 
 With good gameplay, a good story, and good replay value, Battlefield Bad Company should be an awesome 
 game, but it ends up falling just short of greatness due to a few issues.
  
  The story is actually very good. You play as Preston Marlow who falls in with a ragtag team of 
 rascals in Bad Company. The game's feel is very cynical all around, and there's some great humor, 
 but some of the jokes don't come off too wellat all. Anyway you and your squad will go around 
 the Russian back country blowing things up until you stumble upon a couple of trucks carrying tons 
 of gold. I bet you can figure out what happens next.
  
  Battlefield Bad Company's gameplay is best summed up by its front cover. That grenade with the 
 smiley-face pin says a lot. Basically, in Bad Company, you'll be blowing tremendous amounts of 
 s*** up, and you'll probably be giggling with glee as you do so (that's what I did anyway, hopefully 
 other people do the same, or else I'd feel weird) . To support that, environments are highly destructible, 
 for example, you can choose you use a building's front door, or you can just blast your way through.
 
  
  The singleplayer campaign is fairly well designed. You'll go from objective to objective, and you'll 
 be performing tasks that range from escorting things to (surprise, surprise) blowing things up. 
 The story is told well through cutscenes, but the levels themselves seem to drag on forever. There's 
 also no real penalty for dying, you'll simply spawn not too far from where you were actually killed. 
 On the whole, though, the singleplayer is definitely worth playing.
  
  The multiplayer is what gives this package its real value, though. Bad Company has but one mode, 
 but it's pretty sweet. It's called Gold Rush. One team defends their precious gold while the other 
 tries to blow it up (wtf?) . Gold Rush supports the usual cla. ss based multiplayer, and all the 
 classes are very well balanced. There are only 8 maps, and no Conquest mode packaged inside, which 
 is a bit of a bummer, but at the end of the day the multiplayer is quite enjoyable.
  
  Bad Company's production values are quite good. The maps are very destructible, and the Frostbite 
 engine is (thank capital G) one of the only engines out there which doesn't completely overuse 
 bump-maps and normal-maps, but instead actually (*gasp*) has good textures (omg) ! The sound design 
 is also very good, the music is very calm and casual, but oddly fits, and the voice acting, as 
 well as general sound effects are very well done.
  
  Bad Company will probably last you a while. With a singleplayer campaign that'll last you about 
 8-10 hours, and a great multiplayer mode (complete with the oh-so-common exp system introduced 
 by COD4) will keep you coming back quite often. With promise of new content in the future, the 
 $60 you have to shell out on Bad Company will be worth it.
  
  Bad Company isn't a remarkable game, but it's simply a great FPS. For some reason, we haven't been 
 seeing very many shooters recently, so anyone itching for an FPS will likely be pleased with Battlefield 
 Bad Company.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rKn3sSnIp3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company was an incredibly fun game and really changed my perspective about the 
 series from Battlefield 2. The campaign is a little hard to follow, starting you off in a war and 
 then you have several turns for the worse followed by *SPOILER ALERT* getting screwed by the Army 
 and being left on your own *SPOILER ALERT*, and then all of the sudden the game rapidly brings 
 itself to a close, leaving me highly unsatisfied, with an unnecessary ending that's anti-climactic 
 and just plain stupid in my opinion. The online multiplayer is probably the reason dedicated Battlefield 
 fans are buying the game, and the ranking up/weapon unlock system makes it worthwhile, but still 
 makes little sense. For example, the multiplayer is being advertised as "25 levels, 25 unlocks". 
 Well let's put a HUGE asterisk on that. In order to get five of the weapons, you have to spend 
 an extra $10 for the Gold Edition or reach level 25 (which is actually fairly easy) . Then there's 
 the "Find All Five" weapons. I think this is bogus. Honestly, when I play a shooter, I snipe. It 
 just turns out that to get the Find All Five sniper, you have to pre-order the game. Kinda hard 
 to do considering I bought it after the release. There is one FAF gun for each class, and I've 
 done the requirements on all of them but the previously described sniper, and only two of the four 
 have been unlocked, which makes me frustrated. As far as the other 15 unlocks, the level-up system 
 makes no sense, as you will quickly realize that you get the unlock credits every other level (I'm 
 around level 10 and have 4-5 guns unlocked) so either I'm getting screwed over, not thinking clearly, 
 or you can't unlock everything. The awards in the multiplayer are ridiculous too, and I often speculate 
 how to go about them, and then realizing they probably won't be possible until the release of the 
 Conquest gametype with the next XBOX LIVE patch. Also, the game features an interesting control 
 scheme that's completely unto itself (not in a good way) . For example, to get your knife to melee, 
 you have to hit the Y button to get it out, and when you do, your character instantly swings it 
 (good if you're flanking someone, I just did it to a friend today, but bad if you're surrounded 
 by friendlies, as friendly fire is active so you lose 15 points instantly) . Weapon switches are 
 performed by tapping the right bumper, which really confused me coming off of Halo 3's Bumper Jumper 
 control scheme where right bumper was melee. The good news: move around is still Left Stick, and 
 look around is still Right Stick; at least they got that right. All in all though, Battlefield: 
 Bad Company is extremely entertaining, and once you learn the controls, you'll have fun blowing 
 stuff up all day long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoKeR360
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company sets a new standard, in my opinion. Not only does this game bring a highly 
 enjoyable single player experience, but it also has an addicting multi-player game. Bad Company 
 was announced back in 2006 and made by Electronic Arts. This highly anticipated game was well worth 
 the wait, and you're about to find out why. Bad Company is also the first Battlefield game to be 
 exclusive to consoles. Previous games have been brought to consoles from the PC. This game feels 
 like it was meant for a console, which is good for both Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 owners who have 
 this game.
  
  Story
  You are Preston Marlowe. You are a part of a the B-Company, filled with all the "losers" that were 
 sent to war instead of thrown in jail. Your squad includes Haggard, Sweet Water and sergeant Redford. 
 You may develop some feelings towards each character as you go through out the game because they 
 each have unique personalities you will probably never forget. You're sent to a fictional war in 
 Russia. The army doesn't really care about your squad, you're just sent in so they don't have to 
 waste their highly valued troops. After some time in the game you begin to find boxes of gold. 
 This leads you and your squad on a journey to find a whole lot of gold, and get yourselves into 
 a whole lot of trouble. Throughout the journey you will get a few laughs from jokes that are actually 
 funny from your squad members. This alone ads depth to the story by showing personality to characters. 
 Sure your in the middle of war, but these jokes are just plain funny. It could take away from the 
 reality of war, but overall i think the jokes are funny and help develop personalities of characters. 
 It's really something you never see in a game, especially a first person shooter. The story definitely 
 isn't as deep as a game like Bioshock or Mass Effect, but for a shooter it is very well written 
 and enjoyable.
  
  Sound
  The sound in this game is probably the most realistic war sounding game out there. From rocket 
 launchers, to hand guns, vehicles, or your assault rifle, everything sounds realistic and embraces 
 you even deeper into the game. If you have surround sound i really can't imagine how it would be. 
 This is one of the few games that actually makes me feel like this is real and im there. Battlefield: 
 Bad Company sets a new standard in the sound department and should encourage future games to develop 
 more embracing sound effects.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good, but they aren't the best. You may notice a small film grain. Explosions 
 are done very well, as well as buildings being destroyed. With tons of different environments the 
 colors are pretty to look at, especially the sunsets and rivers. I'm sure you will be happy with 
 the graphics if you play this game because they are good and the Gameplay really doesn't make you 
 think about graphics. If i had to rate the graphics out of ten i would probably give them an eight. 
 If we had never seen games such as gears of war or call of duty 4 you would probably think the 
 graphics were amazing.
  
  Gameplay
  The best part of bad company. You have tons of weapons and vehicles to choose from. Vehicles include: 
 helicopter, tank, truck, mini tank, boat, and a few others. Most first person shooters are narrow 
 and make you follow a certain path. In Bad Company, you choose your way to get to your destination. 
 There is also a large map you can explore if you want to try and find more gold crates. If you 
 can't find an open door, equip your grenade launcher and just blow your way through a building. 
 There are tons of gas barrels and flamable things to blow up near buildings, which encourages you 
 to blow even more stuff up, which is really fun to watch and hear. The explosions are amazing. 
 They seem realistic and not just certain parts destroy on every building. Any part of a building 
 can be destroyed except for the framework. Every gun also feels unique and you will acquire new 
 guns throughout the game and get achievements for acquiring so many. If you die in game, you automatically 
 respawn from not to far away, and any damage you have done, or enemies you have killed are still 
 dead. This may be a bad thing to some people but brings some relief to me, especially since there 
 are some tough moments in the game. AI is also very intelligent for most of the game, as they will 
 hide behind objects and try to avoid your fire, but some do stand out in the open which is fine 
 for me because i can get an easy shot off. You also will have several different gadgets. These 
 can include rocket launchers, air strike attack, drill to repair vehicles, and a few more.
  
  Multiplayer
  This is where all previous games have shined. Bad Company shines here as well. 
 There are five classes to play with online. A few of these include: Assault, Recon, Support, and 
 specialist. When you get tired of one you can always change it up which adds more replay ability. 
 There is only one online mode to play but there are future plans to release downloadable content 
 which will add another online mode to play. Currently the online mode, you are either an attacker 
 or defender. Defenders have to defend their gold crates while attackers try to destroy them. There 
 is also a rank up system like in Call of Duty 4, which encourages you to play more to increase 
 your rank to unlock different types of gadgets and guns. This game is nothing like Call of Duty 
 however. In call of duty 3 they brought vehicles, which in my opinion was a disaster. In Call of 
 Duty 4 they took away vehicles and you had a solid shooter. In Bad Company, they have vehicles 
 and the game is still a solid shooter online. Everything seems balanced. Also one shot will not 
 kill you in battlefield. You need to have a strategy in this game. In my opinion, this is a good 
 change, its not your ordinary run and gun game.
  
  Overall
  Battlefield: Bad Company is a really great game that successfully pulls off both multiplayer and 
 single player very well. I gave this game a 10/10 because i really enjoyed it. No the game is not 
 perfect, but it is something that you will want to keep in your game library, and probably play 
 for quite some time. Any fans of previous games will like this, as well as new comers. I would 
 suggest this to any fan of first person shooters and especially to those who like driving vehicles 
 in games. So definitely buy this game if you like any of the following: explosions, vehicles, large 
 weapon choice, first person shooter, fun online, interesting and funny story, true next gen sound. 
 Hopefully this review has helped you decide whether or not Battlefield: Bad Company is right for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a battlefield fan since Battlefield: 1942. But in past years Battlefield games 
 have not entertained me like 1942 and Vietnam but Bad Company brings back old school all out warfare 
 with new innovative tactics. With its good single player storyline (that will have you laughing 
 a bit) and great multiplayer Battlefield: Bad Company will give you hours and hours of shooter 
 fun. 
  First, the destructible environments are a great touch with trees being mowed down by tanks, artillery 
 holes in the ground, to blowing up walls and putting holes in the sides of buildings, this gives 
 the each game you play a sense of individuality to it. No game is ever played the same. 
  And because its a Battlefield game the all out warfare experience is still there with a variety 
 of transport vechicles, tanks, artillery, boats, and helicopters to choose from. The classes are 
 also the same as in old battlefield games with Assault, Specialist, Engineer, Support, and Scout. 
 The new guns and toys you can unlock also add a bit of fun to choosing which ones to unlock. 
 
  The single player in Bad Company isnt all that bad either. Even though hard feels like more of 
 a normal difficulty the storyline and characters are done well. Your squad will make you laugh 
 over again with their comedic and greedy personality.
  All in all Battlefield: Bad Company is a great game and if you are considering getting it dont 
 hesitate. It will give you your moneys worth. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FURY93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this game at my friends house, i absolutely loved it.
  so when i went home that day i decided to download the demo, however the demo quickly became boring 
 because it was the same map.
  But, ever since i bought the game i have been hooked on it.
  The multiplayer is so realistic and fun! The destructible buildings and veichles make this a better 
 game than COD4 in my opinion.
  The story is a little boring but it is quite humorous, especially with the smiley faces on the 
 grenades. Over all this is great game for any FPS fan
  and the crazy multiplayer will have you hooked within minutes.
  Another great thing about this 
 game is that the weapon classes balance themselves out, so that every person has a weakness, but 
 also has the advantage over another class. Also, the unlockable weapons and equipment make you 
 want to keep playing. The story isn't too exciting, but it is fun to play and has it's funny moments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin_009
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  There are so many things that make Battlefield: Bad Company a very fun game to play. From the massive 
 explosions you can make with some weapons, to getting the dog tag of an enemy player you knifed.
 
  
  The single player mode of this game is a goo 10 to 20 hours long. You start out as a soldier (Preston 
 Marlow) who instead of being put into jail, is thrown into what is called "The B Company" which 
 is known as "Bad Company". You and your squad of misfit soldiers are always the first soldiers 
 to be thrown into a battle as you are "deemed expendable" as the game puts it. Two of you comrades 
 named "Sweet Water" and "Haggard" are like little brothers constantly complaining about each other, 
 while your leader "Sgt. Redford" is constantly telling the two to shut up. Your comrades give a 
 lot of comic relief to the story, and at times they'll make you laugh, and at times they'll make 
 you role your eyes. 
  
  So eventually your squad runs into some mercenaries who are packing gold. According to a story, 
 there is a guy called the "Legionnaire" who only pays in gold. Eventually You and your squad become 
 gold hungry and go "A-Wall". It's not a masterpiece of a story, but it's one that will keep you 
 connected with the characters and interested in what's going on. The disappointing thing about 
 the single player mode is that you can't do Co-Op on it. It would make the single player mode a 
 lot more enjoyable and would have more lasting value.
  
  The single player mode is also a little easy. I beat it on hard my first try through, it could 
 be much harder. You'll die, but nowhere near as much as you should on the hardest difficulty your 
 first time through. So I suggest doing it on hard.
  
  The Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer is where this game lives. You can have up to 24 players in a single match, and 
 their are 5 different classes that include: Assault, Demolition, Recon, Specialist and Support. 
 The classes are very well balance in which each class could change the way of the battle. For instance 
 if you had to many Recon people you would never be able to take the enemy and if you had to many 
 Assault people, you'd be ripped apart by tanks and helicopters.
  
  One feature that is unique to this game is the ability to destroy walls. So if you pointed a grenade 
 launcher at a wall, you would blow up that part allowing you to get into a building through your 
 own entrance. Now where the walls blow is some what preset, but you'll never notice it if you're 
 focusing on the game and not the detail. This feature makes camping much more difficult. While 
 you can still camp, you'd have to be warry that someone wouldn't blow a hole into the wall you 
 leaning against, or blow a wall in a back entrance. It just makes camping more difficult which 
 in the end, is better for the game.
  
  The vehicles of Bad Company are really one of the best parts. You can jump in an artillery gun 
 and rain fire down on enemies. You can get in a helicopter and completely destroy soldiers running 
 in an open area. There are many vehicles that if used well can change the course of a game.
  
  The weapons in this game are creative yet basic. The coolest weapon in my opinion is the laser 
 designator. If you're a Recon class and you've unlocked the weapon. You can bring it out and lock 
 into the coordinates of a tank or other vehicle, and missile will come out from the sky and destroy 
 them. As we all know making big explosions equals a ton of fun.
  
  The sound effects in Bad Company are phenomenal. If an explosion happend a couple yards from you, 
 you'd here a fantastic explosion. It's such a fantastic sound that I have not heard from any game 
 yet.
  
  So all in all Bad Company is a game you won't want to miss. Go and get it now... =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by letting you know that I am a HUGE fan of the Battlefield series, and I absolutely 
 LOVE BF2. Now, I can say something I have wanted to say for a very long time. They have finally 
 brought the Battlefield goodness to the console market! 
  
  For those that may have never played any of the BF games before, if you have a 360, now is a good 
 time to try it out. All of the thrilling multiplayer madness is here in Battlefield Bad Company. 
 Oh, and they included a excellent single player campaign to go along with it! 
  
  I will start with the single player stuff.
  
  
  Story: 7
  As in most war game single player 
 stories, you start off as "the new guy" and are quickly thrown into the heat of battle. To me the 
 story was decent, it's no MGS 4, or HL2 or anything, but it does the job and sets you up for some 
 good fun. Basically you are part of a small squad that somehow manages to become that typical rouge 
 squad that takes orders from nobody. In the end, you are on the search for gold that the bad guys 
 have, this allows for the game to include some exploration that is normally not found in war FPS 
 games. Not only can you search for the gold bars, but you can also search for new weapons. Finding 
 all, or some of these items give you achievement pts. 
  
  Oh almost forgot, the use of brilliant sarcastic humor in conversations between the squad members 
 is funny and probably extremely typical on how guys would be in a situation like this.
  
  
  Game play: 8
  
  Just like other FPS, the controls are pretty simple, the typical left, 
 right, forward, back stuff applies. Using the weapons is fun and satisfying, they feel right, almost 
 as if you can feel their weight. The only thing I found is that sometimes switching between weapons, 
 or special items got to be a little cumbersome when in the middle of fire fights, which is often, 
 not only in the single player game, but also online. I also found that even though you were able 
 to find many different type of weapons, you could only carry one at a time along with one special 
 item, I would have liked to carry 2 or 3 I guess. 
  
  I also would have like to see some kind of cover system, I know that pretty much everything in 
 the game is destructible, but it still would have felt better to be able to look up or around things 
 at times, even if it would be blown to little bits. 
  
  Along with the many different weapons you can find around the battlefield are a few different special 
 items. Things like laser designators, artillery strike call ins and repair tools. Again, you could 
 only carry one special item at a time so you kind of had to be careful on what you picked based 
 on your mission at hand.
  
  Speaking of missions, there are 7 ( I think) Acts all together, that consist of probably 4-5 missions 
 each, ranging from simple attack missions, to escort missions, to flying missions. I felt there 
 was a good variety here and it kept the game interesting.
  
  You also get a chance to drive vehicles. Jeeps, tanks, APCs and helicopters are here in the single 
 player and online. There are also stationary weapons spread around the maps that help counter these 
 vehicles. Over all they did a good job of making the game balanced, at no time does it feel like 
 you are out gunned.
  
  One big negative here is your AI teammates. They are pretty much useless, so much so that it's 
 best to pretend that they are not even there. The good new is, they can't die, so the game does 
 not stop if one gets hit with a RPG or something. Because they are so useless, it seems that you 
 may have a target over your head, and EVERY enemy will see you coming, no matter what. This makes 
 the game very challenging at times.
  
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  People say that this game looks "grainy", they are right, but somehow to me it makes it feel more 
 like a battlefield, as if there is tons of dust & dirt in the air. Vehicles look great, and so 
 do all the explosions going on. They did a GREAT job with the "fog of war" where burning buildings, 
 exploding walls, or flying debris can block your vision. So good in fact, I think it's the best 
 I have seen in a long long time. 
  
  
  Audio: 9
  
  Not sure what to say here expectOMG IN COMING!" gun fire, explosions and indirect artillery 
 fire really lends to a complete audio experience and can help lend to the confusion of battle. 
 Even online, where the maps are BIG you can see, and hear firefights in the distance, they don't 
 all sound like they are right next to you.
  
  
  Online: 9
  
  To me, this is where the true meaning of the Battlefield names shines. Take all of the fun stuff 
 from the single player and throw it into multiplayer, and you have Battlefield Bad Company at it's 
 best.
  
  Currently, there is only one game mode where the attacking team must push their way forward through 
 enemy bases blowing up their gold crates as you go along. Each starting enemy base has two crates 
 to attack, once they are destroyed the enemy base is moved back further, and the attacker then 
 gets to spawn in at the base they just captured. The maps are BIG, but at the same time they are 
 designed in a way that lets you get right back into the fight if you die, it's just not hard to 
 find a fight if you are looking for one. Yes, if you are on the attacking team, and have taken 
 over 3 bases, you will have a hike if you decide to spawn in back at your first base.
  
  There is a good ranking system, points based, pretty much the standard these days. And like other 
 games, the more you rank up, the more points you get to use towards unlockable weapons. There are 
 5 weapon packs to choose from, that can be customized with different unlocked weapons and items. 
 Got a pesky tank bring death from a distance, use the laser guided bomb that can be used while 
 playing as Recon. Got a group of baddies hold up in a house, or on top of a hill, use the artillery 
 strike that can be used while playing support. The tools are all there, you just have to figure 
 out which one will work best for the situation.
  
  
  Dice also gives you access to you online stats via the BFBC web site, you can track EVERYTHING 
 here, trophies, unlocks, ratios, achievements everything. 
  
  
  At the end of the day, this is a decent single player game, and an extremely fun, polished multiplayer 
 experience! It may not appeal to every COD4 player out there, but it sure does bring home the fun! 
 Based on my rankings, I give this a 8.5 outta 10 (had to give an extra .2 for FUN!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: km1498
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I must say that I have never been that big of a fan of the Battlefield series, so when Bad company 
 was first announced I was a little skeptical, I said to my self that I would maybe just give it 
 a rent instead of shelling out the 60 bucks. So I did just that, renting it. Let me just tell you 
 that I was so thrilled by this game that I went out and bought it before my rental period ran up. 
 
  
  Now to get into the details of the game itself, first the story (which is my favorite part of any 
 game) . This is the first real story included in a Battlefield game and the developers really hit 
 the mark. The enemy AI my not be the smartest around but I did find the dingle player mode to have 
 a perfect difficulty balance. 
  
  The graphics are good, nothing that will win it any awards but good nonetheless. I found the destructible 
 buildings to look very nice and was a really cool feature. The sound of the game was good too (but 
 to tell you the truth my tv's sound system isn't the best) .
  
  And now for the best part of the game... the multiplayer. With up to 24 people on a map at a time, 
 vehicles to play around with and great maps, the multiplayer mode will surely take over your life. 
 It's just great fun and very addicting. 
  
  Battlefield Bad company is a very fun game that anyone who is even remotely interested in shooters 
 will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXcArLBXx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company is by far the greatest most amazing game i have even played so far it is like a real 
 time experience because it is so unexpected anything can happen, other things that make it so real 
 are nearly every item wall and room is intractable by that it means it can be damaged or destroyed 
 if you cant find a door on the house you have not got time to waste just pull our a grenade and 
 make your own door you can also destroy other objects like tree's doors, fences. 
  
  other things that make the game realistic are the selection off vehicles that all have there own 
 power and attributes. Sea, land, and air.
  
  The storyline on this game is amazing very difficult with humour the main character in the game 
 is called Pvt Preston Marlow Who had been transferred to B-company ( Bad Company ) bad company 
 is a regiment off troops who have done something they should not of done in the army instead off 
 sending them to prison they put them on the front lines for cannon fire, but Preston joins a small 
 group for 3 soldiers Sgt Redford who is the leader off the regiment , Sweet water clever and talks 
 allot , Haggard clumsy and very funny. 
  
  These 4 soldiers start off on a small mission and kill a mercenary who was with the Russian's, 
 Sweet water finds him and they notice he is not a Russian Sweet water's knowlege also comes into 
 place as he spots the mercenary's moto ( Acta Non Verba ) Witch is action not words in latin the 
 rest off the squad just egnore him and do not belive him as the mercenary's are ment to be a mith 
 and just a story but some say they are have the strongest army in the world and the leader payes 
 his soldiers in gold bars. hagard goes and checks and they find this gold bar from here they get 
 lead on a long journy alone tracking down these 2 trucks full off mercenary's gold. 
  
  
  ( multiplayer ) - multiplayer on Bad Company Is just as good as storymode graphics are very high 
 quality with all the interactable walls just like story you unlock guns with points you get from 
 leveling up it is competertive and fun. 
  
  If You like First Person Shooters And Games Like Call Of Duty 4 I Would Highly Recomend You Buy 
 This Game Because It Dont Get Much Better Than This 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I always that that war was supposed to be hell. Games like GRAW, Call of Duty and Frontlines: Fuel 
 of War have already proven this. However, developer DICE wants us to think otherwise with their 
 new game Battlefield: Company.
  
  Unlike most games, this one actually lives up to the hype that we had given it. Well, sort of.
 
  
  First, we'll look at some of the good things about the game. Probably the best part is its 24-player 
 multiplayer. The Gold Rush mode is one of the best ideas since Call of Duty reintroduced XP. Also, 
 the characters in the game are pretty cool and some of them have funny stuff to say.
  
  However, their is some bad horizontal tearing and the happy-go-lucky sound effects didn't do to 
 much for me either.
  
  In the end, Battlefield: Bad Company is not the revolutionary game that we had hoped for, but the 
 Gold Rush 24-person mayhem did enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company has a lot to offer with more positives than negative comments. The game 
 has a single player and multiplayer option. The singleplayer in this game makes you play as a soldier 
 named Preston Marlowe who was just recently sent into Bad Company. Here he joins the other members 
 of Bad Company. You have the redneck that blows everything up (Haggard) , the computer geek Sweetwater 
 and Sergeant Redford, who obviously is the sergeant of Bad Company. There are six missions you 
 must go through collecting weapons and gold crates along the way, which are basically there for 
 achievement points. The missions are fairly long, ranging from 45 minutes to an hour plus for each 
 one. The singleplayer is solid but does not make this game great. This is where the outstanding 
 multiplayer comes in.
  
  Unfortunately, there is only one multiplayer option, Gold Rush, but it is hell-a-fun. There are 
 two teams of Attackers or Defenders on six huge multiplayer maps. The destruction in this game 
 also makes the multiplayer fun by having the chance to kill someone behind a wall with your rocket 
 launcher if they are hiding from you. The bad about the destruction is that its not very unique 
 as the game goes on. You'll soon realize that on every map there are the same exact structures 
 filled with the same things inside. Nothing. Making destructible environments; good. Same exact 
 things to blow up; bad. Nonetheless, it's still a lot of fun, don't count me wrong on that.
  
  Overall, this game kicks ass. A large variety of weapons and unlockables will keep you playing 
 for a while. Great game from Battlefield, you will not be disappointed. 
  
  Robert Score 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Haven't even started the single player yet and somehow i have probably over 20 hours in this game!
 
  
  So many guns to choose from and the good thing is they minimized the normal number of classes and 
 combined some of the old ones like medic and engineer together... also 8 maps feels awesome because 
 they're so big each map fells like 3 maps thanks to the gold rush mode :)
  Can't wait for the conquest mode ether cause its gonna be free!
  
  Graphics and Sound are FANTASTIC!!! 
 Best I've seen and what more? Most of environment blows up! No more campers inside buildings or 
 hiding around the corner or behind wooden fences.
  
  Though the game is awesome i do think that the ranking system is too fast...
  Don't get me wrong 
 the score system is awesome! You get points for kill assists, healing, destroying the objective, 
 disarming the boom, destroying enemy veichle, saving someone's life or revenging it and a lot more... 
 But this makes you score fast as hell. Not that thats a bad thing cause if they would have made 
 the level up requirements a little higher then it would fix the issue.
  
  Single player: (gotta try it lol)
  Multi player: 9.5
  Graphics: 10
  Physics: 9
  Sound: 
 10
  
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanjackson888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  I may be standing alone with my opinion on this game when I see all of the other reviews claiming 
 this is the greatest thing since sliced bread. But here we go.
  
  Having literally just finished COD4 again but this time on Veteran (including the Mile High Club 
 level - very impressed with myself) I needed a new shooter. Looking at the reviews and videos Bad 
 Company looked to be the one. 
  
  I'll come out with it straight away and admit I was very dissapointed with this. Maybe I should 
 not have played it immediately after COD4 as this has set an unprecedented benchmark for other 
 FPS's to follow. 
  But Bad Company, although looking good with some great open world levels, just does not play right. 
 The controls really let this game down, particulary the aiming. 
  Y - axis aiming is alarmingly sluggish yet the X - axis aiming is really sensitive. As a result 
 you end up over or under compensating while aiming which I find very frustrating.
  
  "Just modify the sensitvity controls then" - I hear you say. 
  
  I would but you can't. Well 
 that's a lie, you can, but you cannot modify them independantly. There is just one sensitivity 
 bar so you can't slow down the X - axis while speeding up the Y - axis. 
  
  I'm not going to write any more about the game as, for me, the controls and playability are the 
 first things that the game must get right. Without these the game cannot excel. 
  I've tried sticking it out but ultimately it ruined the experience for me. 
  
  There are some 
 good ideas in the game and the destructible environments are very cool, although very scripted 
 (a bit dissapointing as well) and the multiplayer, if you can get the hang of the controls, will 
 keep you there for hours but in the end it ain't no COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Nobody can predict or follow the direction DICE is taking the Battlefield franchise. But that's 
 not a bad thing, because it's a journey full of surprises. With Battlefield 2142, fans were a bit 
 down, but also quite impressed that the Battlefield franchise has taken such a good futuristic 
 picture. But when we were shown Bad Company's first preview, no one knew what to think. It definitely 
 appeared to just be another Battlefield entry. But Bad Company was definitely well produced and 
 is polished to the tip, because the game is outstanding and excels in the areas most battlefield 
 games failed.
  To start, we take a look at the most obvious improvement. In the past every Battlefield game has 
 had a story or singleplayer that was really not a story at all or was a crappy story, and the gameplay 
 was just a blend of multiplayer with no characters and very poor voice acting. This time around, 
 we get set up with the very first few minutes of singleplayer, narrated by the main character. 
 Yes I said main character, this Battlefield entry actually has quite a decent story. The singleplayer 
 is very playable, and quite open about what choices you make on how to advance. There are little 
 restrictions other than going out into the enemy artillery zone (out of bounds) but you can use 
 anything around you to kill, and you can even bust through walls explosives and knock down trees 
 with just about anything. The story is about you, who has been transferred to B company (Bad Company) 
 during a war with Russia. Your squad is 4 members, including you, a crazy country demolitions man, 
 a nerdy tech specialist, and the sergeant who just wants to get home and go fishing. You and your 
 squad are cut off from your company, which is bad, because you're already in Bad Company and the 
 army isn't too fond of you, but your contact is willing to help you as long as you help the army. 
 But things get difficult when Bad Company runs into a mercenary force that no one has known about 
 except the Russians. And when the boys of Bad Company spot some gold that the mercenaries drop, 
 the main objective of the game is revealed.
  The visual design for the game is good. Not great not bad, just good, because it's definitely up 
 to date, but isn't gorgeous and full of shine like Call of Duty 4, or Gears of War. The sound design 
 is unbelievable, with surround, you will probably duck when you hear the sounds of sniper bullets 
 zipping by you, or a shotgun going off. 
  Multiplayer is the pride and joy of every Battlefield game, and there's no let-down here. Introducing 
 a new game mode called Gold Rush, where the players are given a huge map in which one team defends 
 their gold that is stashed at each big hot zone on the map, and the other team must destroy this 
 gold with explosives. With the new destructibility of trees and walls, this game is quite a real 
 and furious package, where your heart will be beating. There's also a decent ranking system of 
 25 ranks, plenty of unlockable guns, and trophies.
  But as I said the game has its downs too. The Singleplayer is not long at all, and some of the 
 characters' one liners are just corny. Every Battlefield game is great, because of its conquest 
 multiplayer mode, and Bad Company is great, but there is no conquest mode temporarily, and Gold 
 Rush is the ONLY game type, for now. The graphics are up to date, but occasionally look strange 
 or bad. And not all of the animations are that great. But that's about all of the downs.
  Bad Company is a great addition to the Battlefield Franchise and takes things in what looks to 
 be a great new direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLARA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Battlefield : Bad Company from RLARA
  
  battlefield bad company is a great game ,it have good and bad things ,the bad things = the enemies 
 are soooooo n00bs , you can finish the game with a knife without dificult on easy , i say play 
 on hard if you want a normal game , you find a magnific weapon that you browse a lot ,when you 
 go to the next mission you lose it , the game is short but the multiplayer is lovely ,i never think 
 gold rush is funny until i play , skills is not the most impotant thing ,strategy say if you win 
 or lose ,the tatical destruction , you never gone know how funny it is until you test it ,a enemie 
 is hiden in thats house , KABOOM , now there is a hole in the house and no enemie hide , a lots 
 and lots of weapons snipers to bazokas ,the greatest hole their make better , some funny archvements 
 , one fubby thing is the cutscenes ,haggard and **** are a lot fun , the history isn't a GTA4 but 
 isn't a rainbow six vegas 2 ,is better than other shoters ,is funny ,hummves to chopers , their 
 are so great like the destruction their do, the graphics are good , not the better i have see before 
 but good
  
  BF : Bad Company is one of the better shoter i played destruction is the same thing of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halvas
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  well i was really hoping to get this game and i finally have!
  well lets start that the first movie looks like your in the middle of a sandstorm-
  you see lots 
 of small dots although once i started playing they either disapeared or they didnt attract to much 
 attention.
  once i started playing playing i felt right away that the movement is slow and slugish which is 
 extremly annoying.
  then again i was playing at 3 am in the morning and muted my tv...
  another thing i thought wasnt a good idea was the healing system:
  you walk around and every 
 few seconds you needa stick a needle in your heart to revive your lost hp points which i found 
 quite annoying again.
  i'll try again later and update the review.
  thats the only bad thing about battlefield: bad company.
  if you ignore that slight nuicance 
 the games great is just plain fun blowing up houses and making big holes on house walls.
  if they'd make the controls abit easier to use and fix a few things i'd peursuade people to buy 
 it.
  all in all its a fun FPS and im happy i own it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, it really is. I have played for over a week and I love it. What really annoys 
 me is the multiplayer interface. You get to play with only 4 games. It would be better if you could 
 create a larger party and then in the game create the 4-players squads. I have more than 3 other 
 friends that I like to play with. The servers are crazy sometimes to. They are still struggling 
 with the lag and stuff like that. But the game in general is very, very good. 
  The single player is very entertaining. You need to do a bunch of mini missions in a map. I started 
 the game in the hardest level and I'm not struggling which means that the game is fairly easy to 
 beat, but nonetheless entertaining. 
  
  I strongly recommend this game to anybody who is longing for a different first shooter experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Leo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll do this review in the compliment sandwich format! 
  The Good
  The storyline is a new and interesting direction for the genre. The graphics feature good models, 
 decent textures , and great effects. All of the sound from the effects, soundtrack, and dialogue 
 are well done. The vehicles and extra accessory weapons are fun to use. A good attempt at destructible 
 environments. Great multiplayer. 
  The Bad
  Some fuzzy and blurry textures (I play on a 50" 720p) . The storyline is a bit on the short side. 
 vehicles can be troublesome to use at times (especially the helicopter) . Some examples would be 
 awkward steering and aiming of missiles. You will rarely use all of the various weapons found throughout 
 the game. Enemy AI sits still and takes punishment, and are generally unable to work as a team. 
 
  The Other Good
  An interesting and effective health system. The adrenaline shot keeps the action going while still 
 making it purposeful the find cover. Most weapons feel good. The humorous storyline approach works 
 well and falls flat only here and there. The open ended maps make it possible to develop strategies 
 to take out the enemy, while still allowing you to run and gun if you want. 
  Pick this game up if you've grown tired of call of duty or if you are looking for a good next gen 
 shooter.
  
  Gameplay: 7 - some problems with vehicles controls and short storyline
  Graphics: 9 - great models and effects, textures are a little fuzzy
  Sound: 9 - well done effects, 
 soundtrack, and voice acting
  Value: 7 - short storyline (could have been co-op) great multiplayer
  Tilt: 8 - I enjoyed the 
 story and characters, the destructible environments are good but are overall a bit of a letdown 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Alright. Battlefield. They've been known to create war games such as this one that have taken place 
 in various times. Such as battlefield 2142 and battlefield Vietnam. This one takes place in what 
 I'm guessing is modern day warfare like battlefield 2. But unlike battlefield 2 this game offers 
 lots of high detailed explosions. If you enjoy blowing crap up and seeing big fire balls, this 
 game is for you. With the new battlefield bad company comes with a single player campaign mode. 
 Something that is new to the battlefield installments. Although it is quite fun, it can get quite 
 repetitive and boring after a while. THE worst thing about this game is the amazing accuracy of 
 the bots. If you're one that likes to sneak up on enemy bases and take them all out one by one, 
 good luck. It's not possible. It seems the producers wanted to give you more of a superhero like 
 effect and take out an entire base singlehandedly while blowing crap up. Don't get me wrong that's 
 pretty cool but it's annoying if the bots have pinpoint accuracy from a quarter mile away. The 
 multi player in this game gives a new mode where one team has to defend 2 gold crates at a time 
 while the attackers try to destroy it by placing charges or just blowing the crap out of it. The 
 game is fun but the one and only game can get a bit boring after a while as well. The graphics 
 have far improved from the earlier versions of battlefield yet their single player mode could do 
 with some touch-ups. But they're known specifically for their online play. Which has (in some aspects) 
 improved. You don't really get to fly any jet planes in this one. Which made me a bit sad because 
 that was one of the highlights of the other games. But you do get to fly an awkwardly controlled 
 helicopter. The controls are just too confusing for me in the stinkin' helicopter. You do get tanks 
 and cars and artillery still though. Friendly fire is a mild annoyance as well. But that seems 
 to happen in not only this battlefield but all the other ones as well.
  
  So overall, the game is fun.... for a while.
  The explosions are sweet. The gunshots are the 
 most realistic I've seen in a game. With the cracks of each bullet echoing through the mountains 
 or wherever you are. No realistic bullet reception yet as well. GTA 4 has to be the best game out 
 yet with realistic bullet reception. But then again, in a war game, it would make it a bit too 
 easy. I just like rating on the factor of realism.
  
  So finally I give this game a good
  8.5
  out of 
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostnfoundos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  multiple ways to attack your enemies.. you can flank them.. head straight in with some rockets 
 and a tank, pick up a helicopter and fly around with a gunner bombing the enemy base, and simply 
 snipe enemy infantry... ect.... the only drawback in the multiplayer is when im getting shot and 
 trying to run a way it seems like i turn the corner on my screen but somehow i am still getting 
 shot.. has amazingly realistic sniping.. i also had a huge drawback on the story mode because it 
 seemed whenever i played the enemy always seemed to know where i was.. they always seemed to be 
 shooting at me and always hitting me and it feels like you're teammates do nothing.. i love the 
 multiplayer and will defenantly be playing it for a long time.. i just dont like the fact that 
 many people don't use microphones in this game unlike other games where everyone is using a headset 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I can tell you just from playing the first mission on the demo and playing online from the demo 
 (which i have done but i own the game now also) . THIS GAME IS AMAZING i can't believe i almost 
 ignored it seriously i wouldn't have tried it if my Girlfriend hadn't seen it in the store before 
 it came out and wanted to play so i downloaded the demo and WOW amazing game lets start with graphics. 
 The graphics of this game are defiantly a very key aspect for a few reasons, one reason is well 
 there is a lot of land to cover and a lot of S*** to destroy and it's fun as hell to do but if 
 it were like mercenaries everything would break down the same way every time..... But BC on the 
 other hand just does a fantastic job with physics and it's an all over 10/10 for graphics. Next 
 is game play, The game play in this game is not only fun but it's easy to get used too From driving 
 vehicles to hoofing it long distances you never get bored. Game play gets a 9/10. Moving on to 
 Control, i mean this game is great but if it had a bad control system that would suck the fun away 
 i have never experienced any real problems except for glitches in the demo which went away when 
 i bought the actual game. so control gets a 10/10 (very easy to get used to) . Now multiplayer is 
 where i know most people will get hooked from the beginning the demo only had one map but it was 
 never boring and the multiplayer mode on it was fun =] and i love the little system of enemies 
 don't show up on your radar till you actually spot them than they become visible for your whole 
 team =D. The multiplayer can be challenging at times but killing either a group or one person with 
 just a sniper after a lot of work makes you feel bad ass =] anyway i recommend it also for the 
 story it's great fun just like the multiplayer and it's pretty funny =] . The only reason you might 
 not want the game is if you don't like First person shooters anyways get it and have fun =D and 
 it's only rated teeeen ^_^ lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsikki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Battlefield franchise and the DICE studios have been stunning the fans of First person shooters 
 in both, the singleplayer and in multiplayer fields of gameing.
  
  The innovative studio has been in the front of developing the FPS games sense Battlefield 1942, 
 which was released 2002 for PC. Sense then four Battlefield games have followed with six expansion 
 packs! DICE has always given their fans more and more to chew on, never failing to give the players 
 all what they ask for. Vehicles, weapons and intensive battles!
  
  Battlefield: Bad company is nothing less than we were expecting. Let's start with the singleplayer. 
 Originaly the singleplayer in Battlefield was nothing, but a "must". It was shallow and dull, just 
 a decoy for those who usually don't play online. Now it has a strong storyline, cutscenes to give 
 it that extra credibility, and objectives that push the player onwards in the wartorn East Europe. 
 For seven great acts the player has a group of 3 personal characters as his support, a variety 
 of weapons, gadgets, and vehicles all of which come in handy. And thats just the foreplay! Now 
 we get to the real deal, the multiplayer.
  
  As you can imagine everything in the singleplayer is in the multiplayer, with 24 players online 
 the action just gets better. The new gamemode, gold rush is objective based battle to gain gold 
 from the opposing teams gold crates. Each map grows as the attacers gain control of more and more 
 crates, keeping the map always fresh for new battle plans. 
  
  Ranked matches allow players to gain ranks through points which are gained by giving all you got 
 for your squad and your team! Ranks aren't only for bragging, they unlock a great ammount of weapons 
 and gadgets which you get to choose to fit in to your playing style, keeping the adrenaline flowing. 
 
  
  Thats all you get to see, but in the background there is the new marvelous Frostbite engine, allowing 
 the players the freedom of total destruction. It is bringing the world, dirt and gravel flying 
 all over the place, smoke blocking your view to the enemy. All this is what you don't think about 
 when you play but with out the Frostbite working hard in the background just to please the player.
 
  
  Tremble in fear Cod, Frontlines: FOW and all you others whoom dare call themselfs "next-gen" grow 
 up! Feel the Frostbite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia_hitman01
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  6 months ago- Battlefield Bad Company.... Hell YES! BF2 was awesome on the PS2 and 360. This is 
 one to watch out for... Can't wait!
  
  Present Day-I would love to sit here and write about just how great this game is but it's a disgrace 
 to the Battlefield series. The single player campaign is so weak that I cannot force myself to 
 play it. Eveywhere I turn there seems to be a RED barrel next to any enemy position. Shoot it, 
 it blows up and kills everything-BEEN DONE BEFORE. 
  
  It's much easier to pull out ur NOOB tube and fire off a few grenades rather then shoot back at 
 your enemy. 
  
  Every 20 seconds you're forced to heal yourself, most of the time it's in the middle of a firefight. 
 Kill a couple, duck, heal, shoot, duck, heal....
  
  LAG- Plenty of it for anyone outside the centre of the universe, oops, I mean, The USA.
  
  
 SCREEN TEARING- Whenever your inside a building and move your player about, the screen gets torn 
 to pieces. That, for me, just ruins the otherwise great looking game.
  
  NO PRONE- This is the main reason I HATE this game. In BF2, if you found yourself in the midst 
 of a firefight, it would be tactical to hit the deck. Now all we can do is squat like a female 
 on the toilet. 
  
  This game is not worth your time or money. Recall this piece of garbage and go work on it for another 
 6 months, no make it a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company, is a amazing game. The Graphics are superb, The gameplay is amazing, the sound is 
 awsome and its just so real. The Game actually gets close to how the army really is. When i saw 
 the preview on Television it looked very stupid but no it's nothing close to stupid. You are the 
 newest member of the lowest army branch called The Bad Company. Where you and 2 other dillweeds 
 have to help fight Russian forces. You will mostly do alot of the work mainly cause the two other 
 morons are wussies, I think the comander is the only one who helps you. I mean if you are looking 
 for a great game pick this up. This is not my game but i love going to my friends house to play 
 this game. Right when i get my xbox back i am picking this game up and some Xbox Live. I am really 
 pumped. The game is so realistic if you shoot at a tree it falls down -.-. thats how realisitic 
 it is. It is a great game easily 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok the single player campaign does have some issues. The friends in your company are about stupid 
 but really funny to listen to. The enemy always knows exactly where you are and have very good 
 aim. But those aside the game is very fun to play and entertaining, what a good game sets out to 
 do. The multiplayer is very fun, just I haven't played too much of it yet as I am still getting 
 used to where everything is and exploring the maps in private. So all in all I have always owned 
 all of the battlefield series games and this one surprised me very much as I thought Modern Combat 
 sucked and i have a good friend that will not buy this because of how bad the last one was and 
 he is scared that this will suck too. But it is a very good game and i recommend anyone who is 
 on the fence about this one to go ahead and give it a shot. It is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacohashi
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay I may as well get the bad out of the way, campaign, now on the plus side, it has a very funny 
 script, and the voice acting is decent, but thats about the only good. 
  
  CAMPAIGN:
  
  You see, when you play campaign you will notice at least 2 things very early on
  
  1. Your teammates 
 are borderline retarded
  2. Your enemies have perfect aim, and always know where you are
  
  From the first level on, your teammates cannot hit a stationary enemy about 10 feet away, whereas 
 you will notice yourself getting hit at every angle and going "where the **** are they??!!!" So 
 after you take out the close by enemies (and I mean just you, these teammates are for nothing more 
 than fodder) than you will spend several minutes just trying to figure out where people are (even 
 if they are on the radar, which is often misleading)
  
  Now there are 2 things EA did to try to help
  
  1. an infinite healing syringe that only requires 
 time in between use
  2. when you die and start from the checkpoint, the enemies you killed then will be dead now, weird, 
 but it helps obviously
  
  Still it does not excuse the amount of suckage in the campaign, so lets get onto multiplayer!
 
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  Okay, now let me start off by saying that this is one of the BEST online shooters I have ever played, 
 and why is that?
  
  1. Large destructible environments
  2. Many vehicles, and they all are practical
  3. A unlock system to get different weapons and 
 abilities depending on 
  your playing style
  4. Fun and  the name)
  5. A moderate amount of maps, which are 
 all very fun
  6. A fresh new multiplayer mode, called gold rush, and coming soon, a 
  Death Match type.
  7. Many "class" types, all with their own uses
  8. A "dog tag" system that 
 makes knifing both fun AND rewarding
  9. Many different stationary turrets (about 5 different kinds)
  
  Well I am gonna end the "list" 
 there and go into more depth
  
  The destructible environments are FUN, when you play COD or HALO, there is always the problem of 
 campers, around corners and such, well hell, if someones camping, fire an RPG into the wall on 
 the opposite side, and they are exposed and frightened! Whats that? a sniper on that tower? fwoooshhh! 
 BLAM!!........... problem solved, and its never been more entertaining!
  
  Vehicles range from: Dune buggies, Humvees, Helicopters, Tanks (both light and heavy) , boats you 
 name it! My one complaint with the vehicles is that bullets have ZERO effectiveness on any kind 
 of tank, so if your out of explosives and a tank comes along, consider yourself ****ed : (. However, 
 since you can change classes at any time, its not a problem to die once, then RPG/rifle grenade/grenade/50 
 CAL the hell out of your opponent.
  
  The unlock system is interesting, there is not to many options for guns, however, its the special 
 items that make it very fun.
  
  Assault: a healing syringe that will put you to full health when used, it has a cool down time 
 however (assault rifle users)
  
  Demolition: Anti tank mines that know the difference between friend and foe, so it is very helpful 
 when fighting "tank whores" however, it does not work on lighter vehicles, but feel free to shoot 
 them for one hell of an explosion. (shotgun users)
  
  Recon: A laser guided bomb, you must first target a vehicle or turret, and keep it there for several 
 seconds, than a bomb drops, and you are given a birds eye view and control over the bomb! it is 
 hard to aim, but VERY satisfying to kill people with, it also looks cool from all angles. (sniper 
 rifle users)
  
  Specialist: C4 is the specialists....... specialty, throw and detonate, simple as that, more than 
 one can be laid down, but they are ridiculously powerful even with just one (obviously, its C4!!) 
 you can even stick these to passing vehicles for a funny explosion, the one problem is that you 
 don't have much of a throwing arm, so getting close enough in firefights can be difficult. (sub 
 machine gun users)
  
  Support: Mortar strikes, similar to the recon, however, this can be targeted just about anywhere, 
 and mortars will rain down a few seconds later, very satisfying to get kills with, but less effective 
 versus vehicles, as the mortars hit where ever you marked in the first place. (large machine gun 
 users)
  
  The challenges are cool, and differ depending on MANY factors, such as kill streaks, several kills 
 with a certain gun, killing 5 of the same vehicles, even killing 2 of every class on the opposing 
 team, so half the time you don't even know when you have achieved something until you see that satisfying 
 reward appear on the screen :D
  
  The maps are all fun, and are all fair, whether you are on attacking or defending sides, its a 
 blast either way.
  
  The multiplayer mode called "gold rush" is a fun and innovative game type. The attacking team works 
 to either: 
  
  1. destroy "gold crates" by planting a charge and waiting until it detonates
  2. destroy "gold 
 crates" by destroying them with other means eg: bullets explosives etc
  
  The defending team defends against the attackers, and can disarm charges that are planted, however 
 it takes about double the time to disarm a charge than it does to plant it, so you need to be quick.
 
  
  Their are a total of 5 classes, all available from the get-go, and none are ignored:
  
  Assault: Assault rifles are their primary weapon, with mounted grenade launchers, grenades, 
 and a healing syringe. Obviously this class focuses on small explosions for attacking infantry 
 or blowing up things.
  
  Demolitions: Shotguns are their primary weapon with an rpg/rocket launcher, grenades and anit tank 
 mines. This class is for taking down the big SOB's in tanks that just wont go down, and the shotgun 
 is designed like the COD4 shotgun, so it is useful at mid range, so you aren't completely restricted 
 to close quarters combat, although it is most effective in that area obviously.
  
  Recon: Snipers are their primary weapon, with a pistol, laser guided bomb, and proximity sensors. 
 Since in this game enemies are not marked when they fire, but rather when fired upon, it can be 
 hard for a sniper to stay safe, so throw these around, and nearby foes will be marked right on 
 the map, these not only help you, but everyone. Now sniping in this game is different because of 
 the fact you must "lead" your shots, since the maps are enormous, aiming ahead of targets is how 
 to bring them down. In the long run, these are the least helpful class in most cases, because of 
 the fact that there are so few people that are proficient with them.
  
  Specialist: Sub machine guns are their primary weapon, with C4, grenades, and tracers, these are 
 used to "tag" vehicles and people, what does this do? well for one it marks them on the map, and 
 two it makes all rocket launchers "heat" seek onto them, So even though you may not be able to 
 C4 the tank in some cases, tag it for the rest of your team so its easier on all of you. The SMG 
 weapon is oddly effective at surprisingly long ranges, because of the fact that SMG's give up accuracy 
 for fire rate, so for those who love tp spray bullets everywhere, this is for you.
  
  Support: LMG's are their primary weapon, with the mortar..... thing..... umm it looks like a walkie 
 talkie :P they also are equipped with med kits, and a drill. The drill can repair vehicles, so 
 waiting behind your friendly tank and healing can be an incredible asset. The medkits can be thrown 
 on the ground, or right onto people for a full heal, the incentive to heal people is that you are 
 awarding 10 points (the same as a kill) or 15 points if it is a squad member ( i will explain squads 
 later) .
  
  There are MANY turrets that range from A. A guns, guided missles, grenade launchers, and heavy machine 
 guns, my only complaint is that A. A guns are essentially useless on infantry, as odd as that may 
 sound, if you play the game and constantly shoot a person with the A. A gun, he can take around 
 30 seconds of constant shooting to die, so he can just run up and kill you. A gun that rips apart 
 a helicopter made useless on other things? a terrible and very unrealistic idea to say the least.
 
  
  The knifing system is fun, when you knife someone, it is a one hit kill, and nets you their "dog 
 tag" which basically nets you points depending on their rank, and in addition, lets you keep their 
 tags to be viewed later.
  
  Whew........ A LOT of pros there, here are the cons:
  
  1. Knifing while fun, is random, you can knife a guy from 10 feet away 
  sometimes, and others 
 you can't hit someone from 1 cm away even 
  after several swings, a patch could fix this and make this MUCH better.
  
  2. Squads are an 
 interesting idea, your team is grouped into squads and 
  may spawn near any living squad mates when you die, and you 
  communicate between each other, 
 the problem? They are the ONLY 
  ones you can talk to, so yelling for help falls on deaf ears if they are not
  in your squad, 
 even if they are right beside you.
  
  3. The website sucks, why is this a con for the game? heres why:
  
  in order to unlock certain 
 special weapons, you must sign up at the EA site and sign up for newsletters and other various 
 things, but the site is so broken and crappy, 95% of people cannot get most of these because of 
 the crappy site.
  
  4. Artillery is TOO good, the attacking side has artillery at their main base
  and can fire just 
 about anywhere towards the defending team, it has a
  long reload, but since you can destroy an entire team so easily, it can
  be much to cheap, that 
 being said, you are also defenseless while on it
  so you can be sniped easily if the defenders get close enough
  
  5. Getting in and out of vehicles 
 is instantaneous, so if your trying to kill a
  tank up close, the driver can simply instantly get out beside you and 
  kill you with ease.
 
  
  So even though the cons significantly bring down the game, its still fantastic, if you like blowing 
 stuff up in large environments with your friends, then you will LOVE this game.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Bad Company is a great singleplayer experience. Although the multiplayer aspect is enjoyable as 
 well, I found myself being less frustrated and more immersed in the singleplayer campaign. 
  
  I played through on normal difficulty and the game felt just right. I was having a hard time 
 in the later missions but nothing seemed impossible. I had numerous ways of dealing with the enemy, 
 which i enjoyed very much.
  
  I would sometimes snipe them from really far away, or use the airstrike beacon on the structures 
 to soften up the areas. Still, it was challenging enough to where i could not cheese through it.
 
  
  The sensitivity on the analog was way too aggressive when giving full input so i had to tune that 
 down to 3 bars. Movements and driving felt a bit sluggish but worked fine with the pacing of the 
 game. My only complaint was with the camera settings when in 3rd person on the vehicles. You could 
 easily get into angles where the vehicle would block the entire field of view. Also, almost every 
 vehicle seemed to have trouble climbing small slopes and hills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoopiePee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  For those familiar with Battlefield: Modern Combat , you will remember the game mode, Conquest. 
 You want war on a non linear scale , more so than Gold Rush? Its not included within this years 
 Battlefield: Bad Company! Dont click away just quite yet! Currently going through "testing, and 
 verification...", our beloved conquest mode will return in the form of a patch very soon. Yea, 
 who ever said fans dont have a say in whats being produced! FTW!
  
  Multiplayer, hands down! Is the way to go for this game. You got different playable classes to 
 benefit your squad and the entire team. You got a whol array of arsenels at your disposal, included 
 vehicle weapons ect ect. Tired of playing on small maps ? Want to get that sniper that hides behind 
 walls? You can blow stuff up man!!!! Almost everything blows up! This will satisfy the explosive, 
 concrete vaporizing demolistionist within you. HELL, i dont even care if I spelt that wrong, this 
 game is just plain amazing! 
  
  Im not even going to talk about single player, this game in this type of series should be all multiplayer. 
 Go get this game! If you dont, I will exploit your mother.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  The xblive Mpdemo was the main selling point for this little star in the ever expanding battlefield 
 universe. D/L Now!!
  
  The full version, provided me with a funny, intense and well worked single player mode, and a corking 
 online mode, where opposing teams fight over pairs of gold crates (objectives) . The main BF conquest 
 mode is apparently coming in the form of an update at some point on live. In the meantime, we have 
 a good assortment of maps over which to batter the opposition. Buildings are satisfyingly destroyable, 
 sniping is fun, vehicles are nicley balanced, and there are enough unlockable weapons and promotions 
 to keep you occupied (or resting from cod4) at least until UT comes along.
  
  There are lots of nice touches throughout the MP mode and highlights include- field artillery, 
 mortar strikes, laser guided bombs (controlled for the last 5 secs or so of flight by you!!) I only 
 now play this and COD4 online- as these two offer the best xblive fps out there. Yeah yeah halo 
 is superb but gimme a choice between an M16 or a plasma rifle and I'll opt for the former. I feel 
 more engaged with real world settings and weaponary. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all, graphics are pretty good, and there are many different authentic weapons to choose 
 from (when you unlock them) . Of course being able to blow up buildings is fun. Sound effects are 
 poor. The guns sound too hollow.
  
  The Single player campaign is alright. Even on medium difficulty you find that you will end up 
 healing yourself more than actually shooting at enemies. The campaign lacks a story line. You basically 
 run around with 3 other worthless teammates that do nothing to help you, trying to collect gold 
 bars. Missions are not related and the cutsceens do nothing to tie the story to the gameplay.
 
  
  Also, there are WAY TOO MANY tanks in the game. Everytime you make a turn you literally have enemies 
 shooting you with tanks. Not to mention that they can shoot you with ultra un-realistic accuracy 
 and rarely ever miss. The bad thing is that the enemies never shoot at your teammates. 
  
  Overall, an ok game, but definetely not on par with COD by any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  First let me start off by saying that this is the best Battlefield yet. Dice's Frostbite engine 
 has this game looking amazing. Character models, environments, textures, and color palette all 
 look amazing. All this with a steady framerate make this one of the best looking games yet. I would 
 go as far as say it looks as good as COD4 and maybe even better. 
  Now as far as the gameplay, well it hold up perfectly. My only gripe would be the helicopter controls. 
 LB to descend and LT to ascend? Why not RT to ascend and LT to descend? Its a minor gripe though. This 
 time around the tanks also feel more like big strong dominant machines, as they push over trees 
 in their path making way to the battle. Another thing that I've noticed is that the colored dots 
 over players heads that show if they are friendly or enemy don't always appear in time, which results 
 in some dissapointing friendly kills.
  The sound work is brilliant also. Vehicles sound like they should and gunshots sound distinct as 
 they tear through buildings.
  This game in my eyes deserves a 9.5 and not a ten simply because of the sparse multiplayer maps, 
 which I'm sure will be available for download shortly. This is a must-have for FPS fans and I would 
 recommend it to anybody who is playing COD4 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamafan1359
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  You start as Private Preston Marlow who is put into a group of soldiers known as B-Company, which 
 stands for Bad Company. These people have been put in this company for doing various "bad" things 
 in the Army. Your three companions are the Sarge, Haggard, and Sweetwater Throughout this campaign 
 you will laugh from things that Haggard and Sweetwater do and say. During the cut-scenes, them 
 two will play Rock-Paper-Scissors and do other things like play golf with their weapon. This company, 
 despite being "bad" are assigned to do the hardest task of all of the Army and will always leave 
 to tell there tale. Your companions do little to help you and are invincible, so everything relies 
 on you and your decisions. The AI is this game is pretty smart, if you are hiding then they will 
 try to flank you and make you move from your location, but of-course you won't be able to go far 
 because most everything is destructible. That is one of the keys to this game, blowing things up, 
 and let me tell you, it is a fun thing to do. Almost all of the weapons come equipped with a grenade 
 launched that deals the destructive blows to the walls and environment. There is a good balance 
 of weapons and vehicles that you use throughout the campaign, but you will mainly want to stick 
 to the things that go BOOM. The sound in this game, especially with surround sound, is phenomenal. 
 All of the weapons sound like they should and the explosions also sound great.
  
  Overall, the single player is an enjoyable experience and you will want to check it out. There 
 is good humor mixed in and the game is pretty long, probably about 8-10 hours on normal. But enough 
 of the single player, the multi player is where this game shines and is what built the Battlefield 
 franchise.
  
  At the time that this review was written, there was only one game mode, known as gold rush, which 
 is a fun game mode, I just wish there were more than one mode. EA has announced that they will 
 add Conquest mode in a later DLC pack, which will be highly accepted. But for the time, Gold Rush 
 is just fine. One team is the attackers and one team is the defenders, and the defenders defend 
 the gold while the attacked try to destroy it. Whoever is successful in their task, gets the victory, 
 and you will gain experience. The whole multi player mode is built around the experience and level 
 growth. You get experience for things like killing an enemy and completing an objective, but you 
 can also lose points for killing an enemy and such. After each game, your total experience for 
 that game is then added to your total and you can gain levels and gain starting weapons. This system 
 works very well and is effective and I like it. Everything about the MP, is just plain and simple 
 fun. A great moment was when I blew a whole in a wall with an RPG, assassinated the guy in there, 
 and destroyed the Gold, ah, so much fun. The MP is very well, but they need to go ahead and add 
 conquest, or they may lose a lot of people that got old of Gold Rush.
  
  Overall, this game is fun and an enjoyable experience. I recommend this game if you are into Online 
 games or just like shooters. The explosions are what this game was built on, and it succeeds in 
 that manner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The Battlefield series has always been serious and full of war, it seems as though DICE want's 
 to change it up a bit with this one. Something new to the series is an actual single player campaign, 
 not just a series of missions with no characters at all as in previous Battlefields. The character 
 include you of course, Haggard (the demo expert) , Sweetwater (the nerdy one) , and Redford (the 
 squad leader) . Then they find out a mercenary group is paid with gold and go AWOL to get some riches. 
 The single player campaign is kind of funny, which some will like and some won't. But the multiplayer 
 is just as Battlefield fans will remember, all out war and chaos. The only thing missing is conquest 
 but that will be available for download sometime. You get upgrades and promotions just like 2142. 
 The buildings are able to crumble which is neat, but just neat. The vehicles are somewhat confusin 
 when driving. All around this is a fun game for non serious war players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psu5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was pretty disappointed with BF2: MC, so I was questioning whether or not to 
 get this game. After playing it, I question why I questioned buying it.
  
  Campaign: Very good story, and is very fun. The Frostbite servers enable you to blast things like 
 walls, trees, bridges, etc. It was a very lengthy campaign too. Also, hidden in each level are 
 gold bars, which is like finding skulls in halo, and there are also collectable guns to find.
 
  
  Multiplayer: This is what really stands out. BFBC has a ranking up system, which isn't as smooth 
 as COD4, but pretty solid. Whenever you rank up, you get credits, credits can be used to buy guns, 
 mortar strikes, laser designators etc. The scoring is similar to COD4, where you usually get 10 
 points per kill, but there are so many bonuses. For example, you get a headshot bonus, assist bonus 
 of up to 6 points, I've never been so excited to get an assist. There are also bonuses for assisting 
 your squad. Your squad usually consists of 5 people, and they point them out on your map, and you 
 can only talk to your squad too.
  
  IMO, Battlefield Bad Company is a must get game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company brings something new to console shooter fans, but the game trips itself 
 in a weird way in multiplayer.
  
  This time there actually is a story in a Battlefield game, though it's still pretty much just a 
 long tutorial to the real meat of this game: multiplayer. You play as Preston Marlowe, a guy who 
 is forced to enlist in army for his crimes against the society and is placed among others of his 
 kind. B Coy is also called Bad Company and it is used as a cannon fodder to do all kinds of dirty 
 work. For this reason these guys find another motivation to war: gold lots of it. Story reminds 
 a movie Three Kings, but who cares. It's nice to see something new in a war game like this aside 
 from the usual honor, glory and patriotism.
  
  Graphics are very good quality and Battlefield has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of how it 
 looks. Unfortunately graphics in multiplayer doesn't look as good as they do in single player campaign. 
 It's not a huge leap backwards, but you will notice it.
  
  Sound design is the best in any game yet. Guns have a real punch in them, people scream in a real 
 manner and a distant mortar fire sounds very different from a grenade exploding right next to you. 
 This really sounds like a battlefield and a nice home theatre doesn't hurt the experience either. 
 Musical score is something new in a shooter: it creates a light mood showing that this game is 
 not supposed to be taken too seriously.
  
  Game uses a new Frostbite engine, which greatest advantage is the destructibility of buildings 
 and environment in general. Pretty much everything can blow to pieces, but still for some unknown 
 reason you can't shoot through walls like in Call of Duty 4. In order to shoot an enemy behind 
 a wall you will need to use a grenade launcher under your rifle and then shoot him, for example. 
 Blowing stuff up is generally fun and Bad Company gives lots of opportunities to do so. Unfortunately 
 in time you'll notice that there is a pattern on how the buildings collapse just like you might 
 remember in another EA's game: Black.
  
  Gameplay is a typical first person shooter and the ability to look through iron sights is becoming 
 a standard in this kind of games. Controls are generally good, but you can't go prone and the use 
 of a knife is a lot slower than you might remember in Call of Duty 4. Save system uses checkpoints 
 and 3 different difficulty levels are nicely balanced giving just right amount of challenge, but 
 still don't create unnecessary frustration to player.
  
  Enemy AI is behind it's time. Usually they just stay where they are and shoot you on site. They 
 don't try to flank you or do anything else for that matter to create a worthy fight. But it's not 
 the enemies that make this game worth playing: it's the environment.
  
  Environments are huge and the draw distance is amazing. On top of that it all looks life-like and 
 the frame rate stays solid all the time. Missions are always objective-based which means that you 
 don't need always kill everybody: just to do your job at hand. Big maps give an important chance 
 to think your strategy: should I do a frontal assault or should I move quietly from the back? Unfortunately 
 sneaking is not a real option here, because your AI controlled team mates shoot immediately when 
 they see an enemy and you can't give any orders to them. Here lies another drawback: why there's 
 no 4 player co-op like in Halo 3? Story includes 4 guys so the setting would have been ideal for 
 blasting stuff up with 3 friends.
  
  Shooter is only as good as its guns and Battlefield: Bad Company has lots of them. Some of them 
 can only be unlocked in a specific way like being a pre-order of the game, sign up to email newsletter 
 or to play the free demo up to specific rank. Different weapons could have used more variety, but 
 they all look different and sound unique, at least to a certain degree. Aside from guns there are 
 other interesting gadgets to use like tanks, jeeps, trucks, helicopters, artillery, C4 to blow 
 stuff up, the ability to call for air support and the ability to regenerate your health. All of 
 this brings more strategy to gameplay and in time you'll learn to master everything at your disposal.
 
  
  Single player mode is linked to multiplayer: when you equip a unique gun in a single player game, 
 you'll also unlock it in multiplayer. This gives more reason for multiplayer oriented gamers to 
 play through the story mode as well.
  
  Multiplayer has one and only one mode to choose from: Gold Rush. Objective is to either attack 
 or defend a series of gold crates and in the process kill a bunch of enemies and blow stuff up. 
 Conquest mode is also coming as a free download sometime in the future. Gameplay happens in one 
 of 8 maps, which are varied and large, but still there are only 8 of them. While playing you'll 
 receive points just like in Call of Duty 4, but you still need to choose from a few classes like 
 assault, recon and support.
  
  Bad Company's multiplayer is clearly designed for clans and groups of friends playing together 
 in general. Still different party functions are a joke: why there are only 4 players in a squad, 
 when there are 12 people playing on the same side? Why sometimes a squad is divided to different 
 sides of the confrontation? Why a squad doesn't stay together after leaving a game? All these problems 
 make it hard to create any strategy on how to attack or defend. In the end multiplayer just boils 
 down into hunting points and that's it. I would also recommend not to create your own squad, but 
 to go to war as a lone wolf.
  
  One of the biggest problem is that different sides are way too similar in their appearance. It's 
 very common to run beside an enemy only to get a burst of rounds in the back. This is made all 
 the worse by the fact that you receive penalty points by shooting someone on your own side.
  
  Servers seem to have problems regularly. Sometimes you get to a game and no problem, but other 
 time you just can't do it. This reminds me of troubles I had with NHL08, so it must be an issue 
 in EA's servers. This does not help to give an edge to Bad Company, because usually Call of Duty 
 4's and Halo 3's servers work seamlessly.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is no Halo killer or Call of Duty slayer, but it gives a nice change of 
 pace and blowing stuff up in an open environment is always fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torontomapleafs
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  First off i would like to say i never played the Battlefields for the PC, but i loved BF: MC for 
 the PS2 and Xbox360. 
  
  Story:
  One thing i really was anticipating about this game was that it actually had a story driven campaign! 
 You are an army reject sent to Bad Company and you play as the new guy. Your a 4 man army and you 
 basically take on an entire army by yourselves. The members in your squad are quite humorous at 
 times and i really started to like them. As for the gameplay it is awsome that you can blow up 
 anything you want and i think Dice really did a awsome job with the Destructible environments. 
 It plays like alot of other FPS campaigns where you kind of run and gun, hide behind cover, heal 
 your self and repeat. Which some people may like and others may not. Overall the Campaign is nothing 
 Spectacular, but i was just happy that it had a campaign. 
  
  Now on to the MP
  This is where the game starts to stand out among other FPS. As of now their is only one game mode 
 which is gold rush (they plan on releasing Conquest mode later on in a update) In Gold Rush their 
 is an Attacking team and a defending team. The attackers try to destroy the gold crates by either 
 blowing them to hell with explosives or planting a charge and waiting for it to blow up while defenders 
 try to disarm the charge. While of course the defenders just have to try to stop them from blowing 
 up the charges while killing the attackers so they run out of reinforcments.
  
  Dice did a really good job on balancing the maps so their is a fair chance for either team to win. 
 Their are vehicles such as, Helis, Boat, tanks, and jeeps. Yes their are still destructible environments 
 online an they work just as good SP does. Their are 5 diffrent classes you can chose from (Assualt, 
 Recon, Support, Specialist, and demolition) with each class you get to select a gun and you can 
 buy more guns as you rank up. Another neat thing about the online is that you have squads of 4 
 and you can chose to spawn with your squad, or at a safer checkpoint. 
  
  My favourite thing about this game is that you feel like your in a real Battlefield. The explosions 
 are very nice sounding and looking and the gun fire is in my opinion the best in a video game. 
 Another thing is that you don't find many campers in the MP just because you won't get any kills 
 if you camp. And this encourages people to actually play the game mode and makes for alot of fun. 
 
  
  I reccomend this game to anyone who likes FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Bad Company soldier! A company put together by DICE and EA, where all the criminals 
 and low life's in the Army are sent as cannon fodder. So strap yourself in prepare for some intense 
 situations.
  
  You'll find yourself taking the role of Preston Marlowe, the new to Bad Company, as he joins his 
 squad on a quest for gold. The story is similar to the movie, Three Kings, only it's set in forested 
 areas through out a majority of the game. It can be funny at times and has a nice cast of characters 
 that really fit into the rag tag bunch of misfits that Bad Company was made for. After greed gets 
 the best of them during one of their missions, Preston and the rest of his squad find themselves 
 getting the shaft from the government and decide to steal the Legionnaires gold stash, while they 
 evade capture and certain death.
  
  The graphics are nice but aren't as visually good as say, Call of Duty 4. Blowing things up looks 
 incredible but Half-Life 2 takes the cake in that category. The sound however, is the best I've 
 heard. You'll hear ringing in your ears and temporarily go deaf depending on how close you are 
 to an explosion or death and the guns, even though most sound identical, still sound great.
  
  The gameplay is smooth but the controls take some getting used to. There are some hit detection 
 issues but it's nothing too serious to really break the game. The game gives you a nice amount 
 of weapons to collect, vehicles and gadgets at your disposal. One of the best gadgets in the single 
 player is the holy syringe of life, that instantly heals the player to full health. There's also 
 no penalty for dying in the single player campaign. It's like BioShock, and totally takes away 
 the fear of dying. There are very few missions where the game actually makes you restart from dying. 
 Single Player is at most, 10 hours long and offers a lot of replay value. Your allies have some 
 bad A. I. There are times where they'll take out some enemies but other times they'll leave all 
 the work up to you and it can be quite ridiculous. All the while, the enemy AI can spot you from 
 a foot ball field away and is incredibly accurate. That is one reason why the game's no penalty 
 death system can be useful. Firefights can get very intense as things explode around you and bullets 
 whiz past you. One of the disappointing things about the game is the destruction. Walls blow up 
 in the same way and you can't destroy an entire house. The frame of the house is always left standing 
 along with staircases, and the other floors are left intact. Some of the explosives like the grenade 
 launcher and recon's JDAM are also very weak and can only kill an enemy if you land a direct hit. 
 But the one thing explosions do bring is that feeling of a war zone, they can change the terrain 
 slightly and make things more intense as you dash through an explosion and gun a guy down on the 
 other side.
  
  The multi-player features one game type at the moment called Gold Rush. One side is trying to steal 
 the gold while the other side is on defense. There's plenty of things to unlock, like guns and 
 gadgets, in multi-player which gives the players more motivation to get out and level up. There's 
 also a wide variety of rewards for completing various objectives in a match. You can also collect 
 Dog Tags from other players by introducing them to your knife. Aside from unlocking achievements, 
 they do nothing for the player but provide bragging rights. C'mon, you know there are those times 
 when you want to stick a knife in your friends. Well now you can and you'll have proof to boot!
 
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is a great game that people looking for a good multi-player game to play, 
 or any fps fan should try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMIGHTYxMIDGETx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  The vehicles add a great touch to a game that is already very realistic and action filled. Unlike 
 halo and call of duty there is no health regeneration, which means you have to play it safe and 
 use your game credits wisely to buy the necessary equipment and weapons. GREAT GAME to say the 
 least.
  The maps also basicly have 4 maps in 1, so they are massive and entertaining , for lot's of close 
 quaters fighting and far open sniping. The game has seven maps included and is coming up with a 
 new gametype within the next update of the game. Now the campiagn is something else, each level 
 is pretty long and some easy and others quite hard . but unlike other games in battlefield u get 
 to bnow your sqauds personalitys and humor , which takes the game to a whole new level and expirence. 
 So go out there and buy it , i reccomend the gold edtiton~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-unit_9001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Bad company is a good game but had potential to be much greater. The squad characters in single 
 player campaign with their humor really livens up the single player experience which is new to 
 the Battlefield series. In my opinion, they should have the same characters w/ maybe a few new 
 ones on the next one, and of course it looks like it could setup to be another as the way the game 
 ends. Not saying that it leaves you hanging but instead making you WANT another one w/ a clue or 
 two. Destructable enviroments are great and should be in every game b/c on this game there's no 
 way to just sit in a room w/ a teammate or two and just guard the main entrance door, that's just 
 not going to work! There are points to be made about the multiplayer though, like... bringing the 
 squad system from single player into the multiplayer. Should have just kept the squad system into 
 the co-op single player and left the multiplayer traditional BF style. 12v12 is great but sometimes 
 I feel like it 4v12 w/ only being able to communicate w/ 3 others, now this is a problem that seems 
 like it may get resolved due to much feedback that DICE has had. Small weapon mods and statistical 
 changes would be good along w/ a few sight changes. Why iron sights on all weapons except Sniper 
 Rifles? Every class should have a pistol. Other than those points, I'm looking forward to playing 
 Conquest mode and anticipating the updates that they'll do in this game. Overall this game is great 
 and I'm very happy that I bought this game and it looks like I may be on it for quite some time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinjohns0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Bad company is a good game but had potential to be much greater. The squad characters in single 
 player campaign with their humor really livens up the single player experience which is new to 
 the Battlefield series. In my opinion, they should have the same characters w/ maybe a few new 
 ones on the next one, and of course it looks like it could setup to be another as the way the game 
 ends. Not saying that it leaves you hanging but instead making you WANT another one w/ a clue or 
 two. Destructable enviroments are great and should be in every game b/c on this game there's no 
 way to just sit in a room w/ a teammate or two and just guard the main entrance door, that's just 
 not going to work! There are points to be made about the multiplayer though, like... bringing the 
 squad system from single player into the multiplayer. Should have just kept the squad system into 
 the co-op single player and left the multiplayer traditional BF style. 12v12 is great but sometimes 
 I feel like it 4v12 w/ only being able to communicate w/ 3 others, now this is a problem that seems 
 like it may get resolved due to much feedback that DICE has had. Small weapon mods and statistical 
 changes would be good along w/ a few sight changes. Why iron sights on all weapons except Sniper 
 Rifles? Every class should have a pistol. Other than those points, I'm looking forward to playing 
 Conquest mode and anticipating the updates that they'll do in this game. Overall this game is great 
 and I'm very happy that I bought this game and it looks like I may be on it for quite some time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is the first Battlefield game that have a story on single player and for 
 that, i give lots of credits. I've played Battlefield 2 Modern Combat and for honest i'm not quite 
 like it. But for this game, it is awesome!
  
  The story is quite simple, just bunch of guys --Haggard, Sgt. Redford, Sweetwater and our character, 
 Preston Marlow -- stuck on Russia fighting a war. Eventually, they find that they fighting a group 
 of mercenaries paid by gold bar. But EA Dice make it interesting by adding humour on the company. 
 Too bad EA Dice doesn't add subtitle on the game (it is very bad actually)
  
  The graphics look wonderful. The problem is the game is lacking of details. The game provide highly 
 destructible environment but after we destroy a house, we barely see the debris. Sometimes there 
 are some object that doesn't blow to pieces altough we shoot it with a tank. Some vehicles, in 
 magical way, blow into air when it destroyed. Same thing happen to the bodies. Other funny thing 
 is when we left our friend behind, they will suddenly 'fly' to catch us. It is a shamed for a great 
 game like this. The gameplay is great, it is fun to blow up houses with M203 grenade launcher. 
 we can also blow up things with c4, frag grenade, RPG, stinger, rocket launcher, russian artilery 
 beacon, and US Army artilery. but, it will be more realistic if our friends can help us a bit. 
 One thing that helps us, if we are killed, the enemy that we have already killed will remain dead. 
 So we don't have to destroy the same tank over and over again each time we died.
  
  This is the first time i review the sound of the game, i do it because the sound is teriffic! when 
 we shoot in the house or when we fire from the hip, we will hear some echo, it is great!
  
  So, i really recommended this game. Bad Company may not replace CoD 4 as the greatest modern FPS, 
 but it is enough to make us happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Get your squad of 4 friends together and do battle against each other. The multi player in this 
 game is strong and fun. Intense action as you either defend your base or fight a front line battle.
 
  
  The single player campaign is enjoyable, but definatly not the selling point of Battlefield: BC 
 In this day and age of coop gameplay in single player campaigns, their is no excuse for not having 
 it in Battlefield. The AI is not the brightest, and there is no sense of accomplishment when you're 
 done. 
  
  Now to the multiplayer. Instense fun and action, this game is no snipers paradise. If you find 
 a good spot to snipe, expect to get bombarded by mortar shells after your second kill or knifed 
 in the back by a sneaky specialist. Players who love to camp will get pwned repeatedly in this 
 game, and loose the battle quickly. One of the negatives is your whole team can't talk to each 
 other, another inexcusable act. The focus is definitely on teamplay, and not being able to communicate 
 with the whole team is often frustrating.
  
  The graphics may not be the best, but the sounds and fx are AMAZING. I gladly trade a little graphic 
 play for a wall being blown to pieces from a artillery strike. 
  
  There is no comparing Battfield: BC to Call of Duty: MW. They are two completly different games, 
 but if you want action and fun and the end to camping, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_manthe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I personally like Battlefield: Bad Company's multiplayer better than Call of Duty 4's. When I play 
 Call of Duty 4 I find myself trying to blow holes through wall but nothing. I think every future 
 FPS should have destructible enviroments. The enviroments aren't 100% destructible but they're close. Like 
 not being able to fully blowing up buildings or even card board boxes. Unlike past Battlefields 
 this one has a storlyline. You're a soldier in Bad Company and you go on a wild goose chase all 
 over Eurpope trying to find lot's of gold so Haggard can buy that Truckasourous Rex he's always 
 wanted. The graphics in Battlefied are average. The multiplayer is top notch. Like other milatary 
 online games you get a ranking and you get your kills and deaths etc. get tracked. It is extremely 
 addicting. You can play with up to 24 players online. At the time there's only one game mode online 
 but in the next game update there will be a new game mode. That's why I beleive this game deserves 
 a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alm1ghtyTallest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game since the day i bought It I have been addicted to it. The single player was 
 decent but nothing special. The multi-player has been the hit for me. If you have friends that 
 will want to play this game with you and be serious about it this can be a great game. With the 
 squad feature you can each use a certain "kit" and go into battle ready for the battle! But without 
 that most people will not act as a squad when you join a random game or care to drop you a med 
 kit when you need one. One of the biggest downfalls to this game is when I am on the urge of dying 
 a support guy will just look at me and even if he is on my squad I'll say "Heal me" and he will 
 just go on into battle. (If you pick support learn how to do it!) If EA sticks with updating/patching 
 this on a regular basis it could be the hit of the summer. Overall its a great game (online) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rich949
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  Before the game came out, I was indeed excited and waiting in anticipation, as most other FPS fans 
 were. I bought it 3 days after it's release, came home, put it in my Xbox 360 and hoped for the 
 best.
  
  I started playing the tutorial in the first mission. It actually played rather well. I couldn't 
 help smiling when I blew my first hole in the house nearby. Destructible environments were two 
 words which came up whenever the name Battlfield: Bad Company showed up, and I loved that first 
 blast in the wall. The game progressed, and I was hoping for more opportunities to blow holes in 
 walls, and I got them. Only drawback was, everything looks the same. All the buildings are bland; 
 they look like they were rushed because there's absolutely nothing inside them. This made it feel 
 like you were just blowing a hole in a cardboard box. Boring.
  
  One other annoying aspect was the health system. It's not like CoD4 or Halo where your health gradually 
 regenerates, you have to inject yourself with health every time you take a certain amount damage. 
 I found myself looking at the health counter more than I was looking at what was in front of me. 
 This really distracted me from the action. Playing the game on Easy was actually more fun than 
 playing it on Normal because you could actually focus on the action more.
  
  Also, the enemy AI is very much stupid. They will absolutely not take cover, although you will 
 get the occasional rebel who stands behind something that covers everything but his head. Another 
 very annoying thing is that you will almost NEVER know where you are taking damage from. Sure, 
 they give you those red semi circles, but spotting where the enemy is exactly is usually very difficult, 
 and with unwieldy controls, it makes it all the more frustrating.
  
  As for the weapons, they lack punch. They sound devastating, and that's really one of the major 
 upsides to this game. But shoot a guy, and he takes about 10 shots or something to take down, no 
 matter which gun you end up using. Unless it's a shotgun. You're given the challenge of finding 
 collectible weapons, but that's a useless addition since you cannot select any unlocked weapons 
 at the beginning of a level. You will always receive your default weapon. Except in one mission, 
 where you start with a pistol. The pistols seem to have more of a punch than the assault rifles 
 or LMG's do.
  
  There were too many outdoor environments I feel. Over time, everything gets repetitive; the missions, 
 the objectives. I found myself laughing at one objective: "Stop Haggard from invading a neutral 
 country." Something to add to the already decent humor in the game.
  
  Death isn't so frightening in the game, as you will simply respawn at your last save point. Unfortunately, 
 sometimes your last save point is ways away, meaning you'll have to trek all the way back to where 
 you were fighting. Very annoying. I'd rather die, and then just start again from a checkpoint, 
 with all the enemies I killed last time alive and waiting.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company feels very much like the PS2 title, "Black". The enemies in Black are 
 stupid, they take loads of ammo before they die, you are given so many bullets that you won't even 
 feel guilty if you just fire blindly, and the guns don't have any punch in them, though the sound 
 is deceiving. Even the graphics are similar.
  
  Overall this game was a let down. The destructible environments are probably the only "exciting" 
 thing happening in this game. I'm a hardcore FPS fan, and I'm absolutely sure I wasn't asking for 
 too much from this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company has something for all fans of FPS. It has a funny and engaging single 
 player campaign which is short and sweet. It also has a very engrossing and fun multiplayer portion 
 which basically is the selling point of the game. The single player and the multiplayer for the 
 first time in Battlefield's long history have finally been equaled. The campaign mode this time 
 around is a joy to go through and has a story centering around the (mis) adventures of Haggard, 
 Sweet water, Sergeant Redford, and Preston Marlowe. What makes Bad Company's single player so fun 
 this time around is the fact that it's such a leap ahead from previous entries into the series. 
 The story isn't amazing or innovative since most of the elements are taken from old war movies 
 a la Three Kings and Kelly's Heroes, but the story is engaging enough to keep the player interested 
 in the plight of the main characters. The characters are also well developed and we learn a lot 
 about them throughout the game, each one has a unique personality and they all have their own brand 
 of unique and funny dialogue. Sometimes this dialogue comes off as corny but this is shadowed by 
 the hilarious dialogue that perforates of the campaign. This time around the graphics and sound 
 in Battlefield have been greatly improved and they are truly beautiful. The frostbite engine in 
 my opinion is the future of war shooters. The rich and vibrant colors are great to look at and 
 the textures and environments this time around look great. The explosions are also excellent and 
 truly do steal the show. All the models are also excellent, faces are modeled nicely and guns look 
 great. The graphics are nothing short of superb. The sound is also amazing and will make you feel 
 truly engaged in the battle and chaos around you. The gun shots have a deep and loud sound which 
 is appropriately disturbing. The multiplayer takes the best parts of the graphics and sounds and 
 puts it all into a fun and downright addictive mode known as Gold rush. Despite the fact that most 
 Battlefield veterans (like myself) are disappointed at the fact there is no conquest, there is 
 not much to fear as it will be released in the future as free downloadable content courtesy of 
 the Xbox live marketplace. Gold rush mode in itself is very fun and worth a try. It is simple attack 
 and defend gameplay in which the attackers must destroy the gold crates and the defenders have 
 to defend it until the time limit is up or the other teams reinforcements go down. Some of the 
 maps in the game aren't that great but there are far more then enough great ones to keep you engaged. 
 Who really cares anyway since in the end you're just going to blow the maps to shreds anyway. Battlefield: 
 Bad Company is truly a great game and well worth plunking down 60 dollars for. Don't be fazed by 
 the awful Battlefield: Modern Combat, this console Battlefield is no wimp, it packs a strong punch 
 and has everything going for it. With a vibrant community at the present moment and a great campaign 
 there is nothing stopping you from this great game. If you have second thoughts even after reading 
 this review there is a demo on the Xbox live marketplace but be warned, it doesn't do justice to 
 the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my first BF game i have ever played before. My friend told me there was a cool demo 
 out for it so i downloaded it and gave the game a try. The demo was great! So a couple days latter 
 i bought the real copy of it. 
  
  The story mode was great, a little to short, and fun. But one thing was when i played this game, 
 i noticed that it was EXACTLY like Call Of Duty !!!!! The same controlls, the same story line, 
 and mostly the same guns ! 
  
  Next, is the online part. This is the one thing that is not like call of duty becasue BF online 
 is amazingly better ! When i was logging into online BF i was like "oooo ya this is gunna be just 
 like Call Of Duty online" but i was rong its better, cooler, and way more INTENSE !
  
  So overall this game was pretty good in different ways but the one improvement they could have 
 done is change it from Call Of Duty ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_The_Cage
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first downloaded the demo on live I wasn't quite sure this game would made my cut, but after 
 I rented it I knew I had to buy.
  
  As most of you know the battlefield series stands out for its multilayer faction of the game. BF 
 Bad Company changes that totally, as you find yourself on a true single-player campaign as opposed 
 to previous installments. You are part of the B company.
  
  You will find that the characters will grow on you, as you'll find yourself laughing a few minutes 
 by the situations you will encounter. regarding the game play if you've played a lot of CoD 4 as 
 I have you'll find the controls a bit awkward but after a few minutes of play you will find just 
 right. As of military games we are living on a post CoD 4 era and we tend to judge everything by 
 it. Well I highly recommend you get this game or at least rent it, to find out that it's more than 
 a rental.
  
  Vehicles!!, yes! you can drive different types, as they add to the whole experience, as you can 
 bring the destruction mayhem up a notch. Just imagine yourself driving a tank through the enemy 
 lines quite interesting huh? 
  
  Now to multi-player, the destruction mania extends to it, thats right you will find yourself tearing 
 through walls to find your prey (if you will) , the games has kinda a perk system a la CoD but with 
 another name Classes. The multi-player mode is called Gold Rush, in which teams are slitted to 
 defending and attacking teams, the whole purpose of the attacking team is to destroy two gold crates 
 and the defending team purpose is self explanatory. When playing rank matches you will gain Xp 
 and unlock points that you will use to well unlock stuff, if you get the standard edition as I 
 did you will have to wait until rank 25 to unlock the guns that come as a "bonus" in the gold edition.
 
  
  To conclude BF Bad Company made rethink my anti-EA policy now i think they can actually make good 
 games. The single-player campaign and the multi-player mode you'll find yourself pleased.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andynator_FIN
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I was little unsure for this game when I played the demo. I didn't know that should I buy it or 
 skip this one. And when walking in the shop one day I saw this game and thought that what the heck... 
 I'll buy it. And it sure was worth it.
  
  Single-player game was good as Gamespot wrote in its review. It totally sucked me in and as the 
 characters in the game got greedy with the gold... so did I. The story was simple, but it worked. 
 Game is full of funny acts in cut scenes. Characters are like real ones from a movie. The movement, 
 facial expressions and dialogues are well done.
  
  The game itself is either fast action or little hiding. It's easy to see where enemies are so the 
 player can choose that will he/she rush right in or sneak there and surprise. I played on normal 
 difficult and the game was hard enough. There were many difficult places to get through but they 
 all took couple times to pass. Sometimes player will need more luck than skills to win some enemies. 
 For example when driving with jeep you can get in middle of a tank, helicopter, light tank and 
 a dozen of enemy soldiers.
  
  Single-player game is good but it was a way too short! As I said I got sucked in this game so played 
 it a lot. It took me only three days to complete the missions. Levels are very large and it takes 
 a long time to complete one but there's only few levels.
  
  But luckily there's a massive and well designed multi-player game. As in single-player game you 
 will hunt some gold. Or then you can defend it. This might be very similar to COD4 but I can't 
 say it for sure because I haven't played it online. One friend of mine said that Bad Company has 
 little more action and it's faster than COD4. Levels are well design except couple of them. When 
 playing online the players on the server are so various kind. In one round you might have pro enemies 
 and next round you might lead the game on score table.
  
  But there's one big bad thing on multi-player game. Anti-tank person (Demolition) has way too low 
 damage on rpg. It usually takes three shots to destroy a tank!!! And that is my favorite class.
 
  
  But all in all Bad Company is very good entertainment. If you like 1st person shooters... this 
 is a worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tbonezzzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  This is going to focus on the muliplayer and address some of the concerns going around.
  
  There is a piont in the begining were you havent unlocked the class weapons, that you feal that 
 there is something wrong balance wise. After you unlock everything you understand how tight the 
 player classes are. I dont know how people could have said some of the things theyve said so far. 
 We are just know starting to figure out in the MP how all these classes work so sweetly together.
 
  
  The levels are emence and a work of art. The scale of these levels are perfect. With 5 or so groups 
 of crates, youre almost always on the move. Each of the 5 sets crates is like its own MP arena, 
 times the amount of maps. Even then with destructable walls the crates play differently. There 
 are so many buildings that when you get to the crate your looking around at the various 2 to 3 
 story buildings wondering if there is a sniper looking at you. 
  
  Also the Team killing (killing your own teammates) and booster (fixing a car you flipped over to 
 rack up pionts) concerns you may have heard about. I havent seen a booster in 3 days. Ive played 
 muliplayer 4 or more hours a day. Even then they are left with the top rank at the top with the 
 sharks. IMO some of these guys griping about it are making it too much of a big deal. Team killing, 
 Ive seen one outbreak of team killing in the last 3 days in one game. It was on the other team 
 and we mopped up the crates so fast the game only lasted 3 or 4 minutes it seemed. In my opinion 
 both are not that big of a deal.
  
  Single player is alittle clunky to me, but the multiplayer is sick. I dont have the words. Ill 
 probably still be playing this in a year.
  
  Single player: 8.5
  Multiplayer: 10.5
  Total: 9.5
  
  Bad company I cant deny. Bad, bad company till the day I die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I was one of this games biggest detractors from the start, i had numerous arguments with other game 
 spot users about the lack of single player. However i have since revised my opinion and, to be honest... i 
 cant get enough of this game! Even the single player is excellent. From the destructible envioremnets 
 to the multitude of weapons covered , i am continualy amazed at how well it all works. The multi 
 playergame is a fast, frantic experience with seemingly endless achievments, perks and earnables, 
 though if i do have any problems is the fact that you dont find out who was in your four man or 
 less squad until after that paticular session has ended. It would make for better planning if you 
 knew and it would also beat the unskilled idiots who wait at a re-spawn point to get cheap kills! 
 The vehicle warfare is as real an experince you can have without leaving your armchair and the 
 amount of players you can go up against is brilliant. If i have any problems with it it is that 
 there is only one online game mode, goldrush. Maybe this (or so iv heard anyway) will be rectified 
 with a download, i do hope so. When it comes to the single player i am also in awe of this title. 
 To put simply you can get lost in the expanse of this game, The only game i have ever seen with 
 this ability was Operation Flashpoint way back when. The storey is objective based and i dont want 
 to spoil the plot, so all i will say is that the mission side of things is not all you have to do. You 
 are tasked with collecting gold and collectible weapons from the out set but in a land enviorment 
 this size the rtasks are made that little bit harder. I could probably go on and on about this excellent 
 title but i would be giving it all away wouldnt i? So its probably best if you go an buy the game 
 your self and see what im talking about. Oh and finaly i better apoligize to all those who i have 
 argued and dissagreed with in the run up to this title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfie600
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i bought this game when it came out and started playing the SP i think its briliant but the 
 cool factor of this game is the Mp but thats what i think...
  
  Graphics: the graphics are awesome altough grainy but the enviroment being completely destructible 
 and the Framerate smoothly running you wont notice that small flaw you can truly look back at the 
 battlefield and say Wow this is war! and see the craters and Blown off buildings torn apart by 
 Explosions of Rocket and Artillery Strikes.
  
  Gameplay: pure BF godness you will find here. adding a full SP expierence and MP new fun mode GoldRush 
 you will be entertained Conquest aside. Theres a bunch of Vehicles you can choose and weapons to 
 pick as well, Although map variety is something some people will hate you wont notice that since 
 you will be hooked trying to kill everyone with the variety of weapons you can use from Simple 
 Guns to Tanks and Jeeps and helicopters all the way to Artillery strikes and explosives handled 
 by you
  
  Controls: The controls are well implemented and its basically handled like any other FPS you may 
 find on the market generally except for some minor changes to the interface.
  
  Sound: The effects on this game are simply amazing you actually feel inside the battlefield all 
 the guns sound just right and you wont hear anything cooler then a RPG flying by your head belive 
 me...
  
  ReplayValue: The SP may be over quickly but the MP will surely keep many players hooked including 
 me until new maps and Conquest is added.
  
  I trully reccomend this game to anyone that likes shooters and teambased games since this game 
 is all about that having some fun with your buddies over live. thank you!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wattss78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is 24/7 kind a game. i mean like you blowing the crap out of a wall. and plus you dont 
 need to open it. and online i love how you can get in cars or trucks and run over thing and blow 
 up things. and overall of it the game is like BOOM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i mean like every freaking thing 
 on there is BOOM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and you ask me "well ya guns and bullets are good but cars 
 trucks van"well they got the most amsome cars and trucks and van. they got hummer that have gun 
 on. they got those truck that you see on german war moives that carey people every were. they got 
 tanks that you can murder people with and they got even heil. those thing got hard to drive at first 
 but AMSOME!!!!!!!! this game is masif murder to your foes!! i say that this game is AMSOME!!!!!! i 
 recomend it to you. i say over 95% of the game is AMSOME!!!!!!! but the uther 5% is bec. i really 
 dont get the story line of the gold and stuff but it a amsome game!! later -wattss78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogglies5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer - 10/10 Gold Rush is extremley fun along with its other multiplayer buddies! 
  
  Campaign - 9/10 I loved the dialouge an the characters with attitudes. The destructible envirments 
 made it to be very very fun but I often find myself on the run. Action is somewhat, unreal. Its 
 like four vs. four thousand. ot to many missions but they are long, which is good. Even though 
 they are Canon Fodder, do soldiers really have to travel back and fourth through the map like that?
 
  
  Story - 7/10 There isnt really to much to the story, sadly. But whats there is good. After Haggard 
 single handedley invaded a neutral country, they are courtmarshalled butescape before doing so. 
 They go renegade for awhile then get captured to take down some terrorist. ~~~ :/ Im this far into 
 the game, sadly. I cant say anything more about it. I only spent this much time on it because I 
 LOVE BLOWING STUFF UP!!!~~~
  
  Graphics - 9/10 They are very good considering that the battlefield is massive. Although you will 
 see some things pop into view while at high speeds. The models are solid and teh cinematics are 
 superb.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10 Blowing things up is very real compared to the crummy last-gen world where nothing 
 gets crunched or blown up even in a tank! The 'blowing stuff up' rule also works on you too but 
 I always found myself on move too many times but there is some solid objects in-game that help. 
 Campaign is unreal. Somehow, four badasses (excluding Preston) function as a army. It has that 
 4vs. 4000 feel to it. Weapon variety is solid.
  
  Sound - 10/10 Guns sound very real and the sounds of war are all around... just that the war around 
 you might just be a small encounter. Either way, it is very real! voice acting is fantastic and 
 vehicles sound just great.
  
  Value - 9/10 BBC is just a great game which are rare these days. Which is funny becuase with next 
 gen consoles and the opening of inuotive (typo) new doors. Well, BBC opened them.
  
  BBC is very mind blowing with a 'Shock and Awe'. It is a must own providing fun for gamers for 
 a very long time. For people who love mindless arcade action and for gamers who love constant explosians. 
 Provides enough realisticness to be a combat simulater (typo) . Also has the great Battlefield experience. 
 Ai has a few quirks along with a few other things but they are easil tolerable. Overall, it is 
 a very exciting and inuotive (typo) game that will suck you in their world and ito the boot of 
 Preston Marlowe!
  (Especially Gold Edition! lolz)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcorps1110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Yes I said it! Although the 4 new maps gave CoD 4 some life again, online play was just getting 
 old. Bad Company throws you straight into huge maps with outstanding options. Even though you've 
 heard the graphics are grainy, dont pay attention because they're incredible. It reminds me somewhat 
 of GTA IV's grainy textures. It really doesn't take detail away from the picture. The sound is 
 the best I've heard in any shooter to date. Their is a ranking system, plus unlockable weapons. 
 No perks or anything like CoD has, but it keeps it closer to realistic combat... well atleast as 
 real as a video game can be. 
  
  If you aren't online with xbox you might want to rent this game. It has a pretty good/halarious 
 story line but it isn't super long. I finished it in three days and I'm an average gamer. But everyone 
 is different and I could see someone wanting to play through it a couple times. But the backbone 
 is definitely in the online play.
  
  Pros: 
  -Pretty much everything blows up. I was worried that this feature would be the focus of the game. 
 Luckily it plays a realistic part in the way you fight. If I feel like it, I'll pull out CoD and 
 play for a while, but I catch myself feeling a little unsure about taking cover behind a wall... 
 and rightfully so! Bad Company's destructible levels keeps it going at a fast pace. 
  
  -Although I enjoy it, you aren't limited to being a rifleman. You have helicopters to tanks, artillery 
 to tow missiles, snipers to demolition men.
  
  -Stunning sound and graphics.
  
  Cons: 
  -The only complaint I have is some of the targeting. I'll be sniping from some hill or 
 building and pull a head shot on the opposing team and the enemy will run away injured. Although 
 I get a kill assist I'd much rather have the kill of course. Or I'll shoot missiles from a helo 
 and they'll land 5 feet from a guys and it doesn't take him out. It really only occurs online but 
 it can get frustrating when you're losing, lol.
  
  -I wish they had made it rated "M". I'm sorry I just like the blood. Plus the occasional 10 year 
 old on my team trying to tell me what to do makes me want to throw my xbox out the window.
  
  All in all, if you like FPS there is no question you want this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barry1991
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Any one else think this isint as good as you thought it would be ? to be honest i thought it was 
 going to be great i am a battlefield 2 and battlefield 2142 player but i just think that this game 
 is a crack on the surface to the franchise. OK i admit the sniping in it is extreme and the sound 
 and graphics but the terrible singleplayer campaign where it is impossible to fail a mission all 
 that can happen is a set back. The fact that you can blow apart buildings is good but way too far 
 overrated. the fact you cant go prone also makes it terrible. the A. I are as good as the A. I on 
 a playstation 1 game they are completly and utterly useless ive completed the game in hard 1st 
 time around i had to double check if the game was actually set to hard and was amazed wen i found 
 it was and in easy??? well lets just say your squad can do all the work all you have to do is drive. 
 multiplayer isint all its cracked up to be either with the various modes in GTA IV and Call of 
 Duty 4 that just give the consumer that little bit of variation in the game. But Bad Company starts 
 without any conquest i mean the fun is out of it already with this new mode they have all it lets 
 you do is all crowd into one area and destroy some of these boxes.
  
  The Good: Destructable Inviorment, Sound, Graphics, Weapons
  The Bad: Terrible A. I, Very Bad 
 Online Mode, Horrible Vechicle Handling, Just no Thrill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parsa12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game for people who love multiplayer. The game lags really bad and that's because 
 of the huge amount of people playing on low amount of servers. Still, when you get into the game, 
 you are going to have a lot of fun but beware of the map, Oasis, because that's the map of the 
 glitch. There's a glitch that you have to run over a stone with a jeep to flip the car. Then the 
 support repairs the car and the guy that repairs the car gets point for repairing. the support 
 guy can repair as long as he wants to rank up to the highest level. ( one match = rank up from 
 1 to 18) but there has to be some guy in the middle of the car. This is the glitch that the map, 
 Oasis, has but beware of the map. This game has a lot to offer. This game isn't as difficult as 
 ninja gaiden II. You can chose from normal difficulty setting to hard difficulty setting in custom 
 matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow I thought only the multi-player would be great but as it turned out the single player mode 
 is great too. The humor in single player is great and you end up caring for all characters at the 
 end of the game. The length of the single player missions is actually quite long but fun. There 
 are a good variety of level designs and I love how pretty the whole environment is destructible. 
 The vechicles are easy to drive and fun to use but they become a ittle bit harder to use when you're 
 under fire from the enemy. 
  
  The multi-player is fun but the only problem is that they only have one game type and that's gold 
 rush. Which at first its fun but after a while it get a little old and you want to do some conquest 
 but there isn't any. Once they get team deathmatch and conquest it will be good. Overall this is 
 an excellent game both single player and multi player. If your a fan of the battlefield games then 
 you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief150
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  At first I was quite sceptical about this game thinking it would be a knock off of call of duty 
 4 or just a plain bad game. I was wrong! this game is quite good in replay value and fun factor.
 
  
  Story 
  
  The story in BBC is pretty funny. 4 soldiers deemed expendable by the military and now they are 
 on a journey looking for a truck load of gold bricks. Ya thats pretty funny.
  
  Gameplay 
  
  For the most part its a typical FPS game. but what really shines in this game 
 is what Frost Bite wanted to achieve. BLOWING HOLES THREW THINGS! Ya that what i said earlyer in 
 the review about the replay value of the game it just went up. letting you try diffrent maneuvers 
 through the game increasing the replay value. You can also drive many diffrent vehicles in the 
 game from solid gold helicopters to tanks and apcs. There is also in the game some handy gadgets 
 such as morphine that heals you and recharges overtime. A power drill that can fix vehicles, russian 
 morter launch systems. ETC. Overall great gameplay
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is pretty good. The sound tracks of old blues and Hawien music makes it feel like a not 
 so serious game.
  
  Graphics
  
  Very good for an Xbox 360 title. The only problem is that there is some horizontal tearing in the 
 game but it doesent really annoy me.
  
  Conclusion
  
  This is a good game to just lay back and blow holes threw things flying gold helicopter and stabing 
 yourself with a morphine sering. This game is for anybody who wants a few laughs in there games.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dippy88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Ok,
  
  I didn't think a game could compete with COD4 until COD5 came out, after various dissapointing 
 online games that have hit the shelves since then (Frontlines: Fuel of War) I was a little scepticle 
 about this game, I downloaded the demo when it was first released and was fairly entertained by 
 it, but it never game me the "wow" factor, maybe because of the repeative map on the demo which 
 I hated, anyway a few hours of playing this I got bored, and kind of branded it a disappointment. 
 As things where going to be tight with cash this month with all the bills to pay, I decided that 
 I wouldn't buy the game.
  
  Payday came along and my friend picked me up from work saying that he wanted to drive to blockbuster 
 in Chatham because it had run out from our local store in Maidstone, as it was a friday and I had 
 no work the next day I agreed. I then told him I was not going to bother buying the game as I didn't 
 think it was all that, but anyway we got to the store and he brought it, I was looking at one of 
 the videos on the mounted TV screen of various gameplay videos i'd never seen before, and I thought 
 it looked awesome, so after about 5mins of pondering wether to buy, I brought it, I wasn't over 
 excited about getting home and playing, and I didn't get in till about 1am that night/morning.
 
  
  I wake up about 11am and decide i'm going to play, I chuck on my Xbox shove the game in and have 
 a go at single player, and again I wasn't overly impressed with the single player, yeah its decent 
 but it's not brilliant, but as a keen and veteran member of battlefield games I knew that the single 
 player is not the main appeal of the Battlefield franchise. I get a Xbox alert from my friend inviting 
 me to a online multiplayer match, I accept and immediately i'm thrown into a fantastic battle which 
 i'm instantly like "man this is insane!" buildings blowing up, bullets flying past my head and 
 people getting blown to bits all around me, the carnage was insane!
  
  So anyway, i'm playing for about 2 hours and i'm still really enjoying the game, and getting rather 
 good at it. My friend also is really getting into it!! I really like the way the classes are balanced 
 aswell, in alot of games one class will own another class, but here things seem to be alot more 
 balanced in different situations which is awesome. I didn't really like that you couldn't speak 
 to everyone on your team which I think is something they should address in up-coming patches, and 
 the fact there is no conquest mode which will be added in later which is a relief! But, these are 
 only minor con's and the pluses completely outweigh them. 
  
  The maps are really cool to, some your in a desert, some in a small eastern european village and 
 other in a large farmland, and many more.
  
  Since that day of buying it i've been playing it everyday after work and I am hooked! I can't belive 
 this game could match COD4, which is has and more!
  
  I will give this game a 9/10 because of the way the squad system works and the fact there is no 
 conquest mode. But it was really close to a 9.5/10 because of how great the multiplayer is.
  
  Thanks for reading my long story/review, hope this has help make your decision on wether to 
 buy the game or not.
  
  ~Dippy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I want to start this out by saying that this game is getting an undeserved bad rap about 
 a few key things. First, is the graphics. Grainy? Bland environments? Are you kidding me? I play 
 this game on my 42" Westinghouse 1080p LCD TV and it looks AMAZING!!! And I am amazed at how full 
 and rich the environments are. The different grass, trees, flowers, etc. It's really cool. So here 
 is my breakdown:
  
  Graphics: STELLAR!!! When stuff gets blown up, it looks fantastic!!! The way the smoke dissapates 
 and seeing a sillouette through the clouds of smoke from a wall you just blew up is killer! The 
 character models also look really nice as do the buildings and overall surroundings. Solid outing 
 graphics-wise.
  Gameplay: Love the controls for this game! I actually had to turn the default sensitivity down 
 because it was so sensitive but that's great because I'd rather have to turn it down than turn 
 it up since most games don't let you turn it up enough. Running is done very well as are most other 
 character animations. The overall gameplay in single and multiplayer is very solid. The only thing 
 I would like to have is the ability to lay in the grass and not just kneel... Oh well, not a big 
 deal.
  Audio: BEST AUDIO EVER IN A VIDEO GAME!!! My 7.1 Surround Sound has never been better! I can actually 
 tell just by the sound what I'm running on. You can tell the difference between knee high grass 
 and short grass! That's how good the sound is in this game! Also, the way voices change when inside 
 a house, the way you lose your hearing if a bomb goes off near you... The list goes on and on. 
 I just hope other games try and do what DICE has done with the audio. It's amazing!
  Overall, this game is just a pure blast to play. The single player is fun and quite open which 
 is nice because it makes the replay value very high. Throw in a fantastic multiplayer and you have 
 a game that every 360 owner should buy. Blowing stuff up never gets old and only adds to the gameplay. 
 GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  In Battlefield: Bad Company, not one man is safe. Not a man behind inches of steel in a tank, not 
 a sniper hiding in a tower, and especially not GI's treading the fields of war. If the previous 
 Battlefield games were action packed, you haven't seen nothing yet. Thanks to a greatly done single-player 
 campaign, and a superb multi-player, Bad Company is easily one of the best shooters of the year.
 
  
  Dice has created an amazing new engine, something that allows the environment to be torn to pieces. 
 Places you believe are safe havens are can be leveled with a well placed grenade or a tank shell. 
 If there's a home in your way, and you don't fancy the use of doors, blow a gaping hole in it and 
 climb inside. The system is flawed however, as not all buildings can be destroyed. Wooden structures 
 will often withstand a mortar strike, but bricks will fade to dust. Small technicalities aside, 
 Bad Company is all about breaking and entering.
  
  One of the great features of Bad Company is the single-player campaign. A real campaign with a 
 fleshed out story, not just a collection of maps and bots. You play as the protagonist Preston 
 Marlowe, a man who has been assigned to 222nd battalion, also named B Company. This platoon is 
 essentially compromised of misfits and cast-offs that are deemed expendable by the U. S. army. In 
 short, this battalion is sent into the front lines. B Company consists of grizzled veteran Sergeant 
 Redford, techno nerd **** and Haggard; a man with a fetish for blowing stuff up. Together, you 
 fight in a Russian territory to take control of certain installations. When the army leaves B Company 
 hanging, the squad goes AWOL in pursuit of mercenary gold. The story isn't exactly Bioshock, God 
 of War, Mass Effect type quality, but the great characters as well as the unlockables, the campaign 
 is easily worth the effort. The greatest appeal to a Battlefield game in the end is its multiplayer 
 however. There is a great leveling system, as well as a ton of usable weaponry. They range from 
 laser designators and C4 to G36 American copies called X8M and Austrian AUG's. The vehicles also 
 provide loads of entertainment is pursuit of blowing stuff up.
  
  In the end, there is little to flaw Bad Company. The campaign is good, but your friendly A. I.'s 
 make you feel like you're tackling the war alone. Also, many of the weapons don't have the real-life 
 statistics they truly should. But with the quality of the multiplayer as well as the insurmountable 
 number of weapons, these blemishes to do affect the game overall quality. To conclude, fans of 
 the Battlefield franchise finally have a console version to enjoy, but Battlefield: Bad Company 
 is good enough to appeal to those that love the First-person-shooter genre in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This is Battlefield: Bad Company, a game that looks similar to a few other things that you've played, 
 but if you look closer there is a new and unique experience to be discovered. 
  
  The developer's DICE have put a lot of work and sweat into developing this title. They felt that 
 they had to develop an ambitious title to stand alone from every other Battlefield title they have 
 worked on in the past. In order to do that it was built from the ground up by developing the Frostbite 
 engine. It reshapes the Battlefield and really expands what you can do and expect from this game.
 
  
  It's everything that you've come to expect from the series, but with the all these new changes 
 it really adds to the excitement of this game. Welcome to Bad Company, where not everything is 
 as simple as they used to be. You are Preston Marlowe, an individual who has been sent to B Company 
 for his actions which should have put him in prison rather than fighting a war. The same can be 
 said about the rest of the squad, they've all been placed here for their reasons. They are expendable 
 soldiers so if they don't make it than it's really not a loss for the people that put them here.
 
  
  Start off with the single player campaign and explain what you can expect from it; an action packed 
 thrill ride from start to finish. The very first level starts you off with a steady pace until 
 you get used to the controls and the tone of the constant fights. You can fight on foot or by utilizing 
 the weapons on near-by vehicles. It sets the pace up well with the story being told through cinematic 
 cut-scenes or through the time it takes to get from destination to destination. There's a good 
 amount of variety that plays throughout the entire game. 
  
  The game is almost like an open sandbox, you have your objectives, but the way you accomplish them 
 is up to you. The tactics are your call and the way you strategize your attacks could really mean 
 the outcome in any situation. Another aspect that really shows off the power of Bad Company is 
 the destructible environments. It reshapes the Battlefield, a quality that hasn't been realized 
 to its full potential till now. DICE got it right and their efforts really paid off making this 
 game as great as it is. Not only does it look good, it changes the way you fight. We'll all so 
 used to fighting behind cover and Call of Duty 4 showed us that hiding behind thin objects isn't 
 a smart idea, but in BF: BC entire walls come down, buildings blown to pieces since one of the 
 main focuses on weapons are grenade launcher attachments and a lot of heavy artillery that's used 
 in all points in the game. It keeps you on edge and teaches you to think on your toes. The single 
 player experience really offers a lot and with all these new features it sets you up as a better 
 fighter when it comes to the online experience. 
  
  The online is really where this game shines. It takes everything you've come to know from the single 
 player and incorporates all of that into an immersive and addictive experience. As of now there 
 is only one game mode being Gold Rush, but it's a solid game mode and really holds up the themes 
 of this game. They have plans on releasing new modes through downloadable content for those of 
 you that are concerned. First let me say that it supports up to 24 players and it has a good matchmaking 
 service like a lot of the newer games out there. 
  
  The objective of this game mode is to succeed in acquiring as much gold as possible or defend what 
 you already have from those that are trying to take it from you. It sounds easy enough, but once 
 you get in there the action and level of difficulty really steps up which helps if you try the 
 single player game first. 
  
  The Attackers must plan their attacks and take out the two gold crates located at the defenders 
 base, which the defenders are doing everything they can to defend it. If they do succeed than the 
 defender will defend their next base. They have five in total and the attacker's goal is to take 
 out all of them without using up all their reinforcements. If the defender's finish off all incoming 
 reinforcements than they have defended their gold successfully. The online has full leaderboards 
 and stat tracking in tact. There are also awards such as patches and trophies that are given for 
 completing certain challenges that really add to the depth of the game. Another interesting thing 
 about that is you can earn them as many times possible so the game never gets dull, you'll always 
 be achieving something. There are 25 ranks in the online portion and unlockable weapons along the 
 way. The online experience really offers up a lot and is one of the more refreshing experiences 
 that I've had online.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company does a good job at successfully making this an interesting title, maybe 
 even the best in the series. They delivered on their promises on making an immersive and creatively 
 new game for any fan of the series or FPS titles in general. A lot of things are done right in 
 this game and it can be seen within the first few minutes of picking up a controller and playing 
 it. If you haven't checked it out than I suggest you put this one on your list on summer games. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is game is mostly a multiplayer Experiance game like any other 
  battle Field you are up to 20 player 10 v 10 On match online Some gun are a bit too powerfull sometime 
 at far distnace like UMP can sometime Kill you at 50 yard with few bullet. compare to an assault 
 riffle beside that
  The Grenade system : when you trow a Grenade is not the best i saw
  sometime im pretty sure i did aim in the window the grenade just bounce on it and reflect near 
 my ally force or somewhere not where i did launch it 
  at firs tin the beta the grenade was too powerfull people complain
  so they made it less powerfull
 
  also the ballistic of grenade isn't good as in Battle FIeld 2 where you can hold the Grenade : 
 till it explose and trow it at right moment in ur enemy face
  or somewhere that he won't Quit camping like Behind a rock you got a grenade. you aim the rock 
 ? it bounce on rock wohoo. and go back to w/e place
  unlike quake wars enemy Territory who use a better balistic when you climb a cliff you can trow 
 a Grenade. that is can be bounce to 3 time. and explose if you got the skill like a real grenade. 
 it can go as ur imagination go :) and physic allow you to i hope the new one they make gona have 
 a similary battle field 2 Grenade ballistic
  
  The Game play is only 8 map . hope they add more. waiting new game on gun till that il play this 
 awsome game that is Battle Field bad company 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManWithGlasses
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  BF: BC comes with a single player game, buy you're not really playing it, are you?
  
  The range of weaponry is delicious and the destructible environments are definitely the icing. 
 The way the battles can escalate slowly from small sporadic gunfire to artillery strikes and utter 
 massive chaotic desctruction is simply amazing and something I've really never seen in an online 
 squad game before. The sound is actually much more realistic to my naive ears than most games, 
 and while you can take a lot of damage and still live, between the sound, the visuals and the great 
 gameplay it still manages to feel incredibly realistic at times.
  
  Maps are really well done, and massive - at least they seem to be so far. They're definitely made 
 for the gameplay too as they're all long and narrow to accommodate the unlocking nature of Gold 
 Rush. That is not bad thing as it also serves to really focus combat more than the BF2 style zone 
 control. There's just one area that people care about (or should at least) .
  
  Two things to fix: why no radio like BF2? That was a great tool. And wtf no prone? Wtf?
  
  
 If you like squad shooters, give this one a shot. BF: BC is to CoD4 what the war is to a skirmish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The long-running Battlefield games were more renowned in the PC than they were in the consoles. 
 The folks at DICE looks at several flaws Modern Combat had and decided to pull Battlefield into 
 a more natural evolution which focuses on destroying walls, trees, fences and whatever stands between 
 your gun and the person your aiming at.
  
  Bad Company is foremost, a multiplayer game like all the other Battlefields. The attempt of Bad 
 Company creating a singleplayer aspect is a noble one at that but its filled with uninspired, tame 
 humor along with very cheap AI. The mission design revolves around the objectives you will do in 
 the game's multiplayer and theres no real motivation to continue because in the grand scheme of 
 things, it feels as if you are playing through one long tutorial to prepare yourself for the game's 
 multiplayer. The AI will never do things like destroy cover, never will attempt to flank you and 
 if you were to be in a distance, the AI would instantly detect you. The game's singleplayer is 
 filled with AIs that would instantly spawn as soon as you step into a town, that removes alot of 
 freedom that would have probably redeemed it's singleplayer campaign.
  
  Luckily, Battlefield : Bad Company truly shines when you play it's multiplayer like all other Battlefield 
 games were known for. The game has it's share of vehicles from speedboats, tanks and APCs that 
 you could ride on. The game plays like your standard Battlefield game and it takes a while to readjust 
 to Battlefield's control scheme for the controller but once you quickly learn the ropes, it provides 
 an authentic Battlefield experience that Modern Combat couldnt quite live up to. From what ive 
 played so far, the guns as of now feel very balanced and never feels as if it tips the favor towards 
 someone that payed for the guns verses someone that just jumped into the game's multiplayer.
  
  The game's health system is the old-school "100 health" but to make up for health you inject 
 this syringe to instantly regain all your health back but the question is that if you have the 
 ability to inject yourself with this syringe that instantly regains all your health than what would 
 have been the difference if Bad Company were to use Halo's health system instead? After getting 
 shot a couple of times you go back than after regaining your health you go back into the fight 
 anyway but the fact that you have to pull out a syringe and inject it becomes rather repetitive.
 
  
  The guns themselves feel like your typical modern-based FPS but that isnt necessarily a bad thing 
 given that today's standards, most current-generation guns sounds good and is satisfying to shoot, 
 which is probably the prime factor of what differentiates between a good FPS and a bad FPS. Thankfully 
 Bad Company is a good FPS.
  
  Finally every single Bad Company map usually starts off with a place filled with houses or cover..... that 
 can be blown apart to pieces. The theme of blowing everything up is something that Bad Company 
 in particular does very well and the only thing that surpasses Bad Company's destrucability is 
 Crysis. Disappointingly, you cant do things like destroy a support beam that would topple the house 
 like it would when you take out the bottom pieces in a game of Jenga. Instead when you shoot at 
 a specific part of a wall, it would simply swap the wall with a broken wall whereas in Crysis it 
 is actually fully physics based where you could chip off piecse of the wall. Its minor and probably 
 would have been impossible for both the 360 and PS3 but it would have been an interesting scenario 
 if there were to be a tree nearby an house and you shoot the tree in a specific angle to somehow 
 allow the tree to crash into the house. Still with the destructibility, you can create scenarios 
 where you destroy a specific part of the house and the enemies within the house would have to probably 
 run away because they're now exposed only to be flanked from the otherside of the house with a 
 tank.
  
  Battlefield : Bad Company is a great multiplayer game that lives up to it's Battlefield legacy. 
 Although skeptics would say that the console Battlefield experience isnt a true one, I would counteract 
 against this statement by saying that there are no other Battlefield games that has almost full 
 destructibility which really does change the gameplay as well as it's environment. Overall, I recommend 
 Battlefield: BC to those that are looking for fresh new take on a multiplayer shooter and highly 
 recommend fans of previous Battlefield games to check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldsniper1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has played and enjoyed the previous BF titles will surely love this one.
  
  Bad Company is the first BF game to have a story driven single player campaign. The story itself 
 although told before in other media specifically the Three Kings film is exceptional and engrossing. 
 You play the part of Preston Marlowe assigned to bad company for a particularly bad incident involving 
 a helicopter. While carrying out your missions for the army in an unknown war zone against Russia 
 your squad comes across gold bars and begins thier quest that takes far and wide in search of thier 
 fortune. The campaign works similar to a BF multiplayer when you die you respawn as if nothing 
 happened, the enemies you defeated before dying are still dead and that Battle tank that just ran 
 you over is still parked with its gun pointing at the rest of your squad. 
  
  The multiplayer is where it is all at though. The BF series is famous for its amazing multiplayer 
 gaming beginning with BF 1942 and the events of world war 2 leading up and into the future with 
 2142 fighting a futuristic war over the last of earths precious resources. Bad Company is set in 
 modern times similar to BF 2 and BF MC. Most of this gameplay has been carried forward however 
 the established game play has been improved in places. 
  
  The biggest improvement by far is destructable terrain. Is that pesky sniper in a window giving 
 you problems fire a grenade at him and laugh as the wall in front of him turns into dust!!! When 
 compared to BF 2 there are several more weapon and equipment unlocks all varying depending on the 
 particular class ranging from laser designators to medical injectors and 50. Cal rifles to UMP 
 sub machine guns. 
  
  A new game mode is available in Bad Company and is called Gold Rush. two teams attackers and defenders 
 have to attack and defend 2 boxes of gold bars at several bases. If the attackers destroy both 
 boxes the frontline is expanded and a new base is established for the defenders with two new gold 
 boxes. This carries on for about 3 bases before a win is incurred for the attackers. The defenders 
 win simply by destroying the opposing forces tickets represented by a red bar that depletes with 
 every attackers death. The familiar conquest mode (capture the flag) is being released fairly soon 
 so look out for it on XL. 
  
  Overall a very good game but there are some niggling issues. IMO the weapons seem very underpowered 
 and the laser designator is ridiculously over powered. No death revives using shock paddles (Defibrilators) . 
 Lack of available helicopters and a small range of maps. The squad system and communication system 
 is absolute rubbish and could have been implemented exactly like that used in BF 2142 or even BF 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  battlefield: bad company for the xbox 360 was just a badass fun video game. this was the first 
 battlefield that i have ever played. and i must say i was very impressed. if you like call of duty 
 4. then your going to like this one. the story was pretty good. your a group of soldiers in bad 
 company. thats a group of soldiers who have made some mistakes on the battlefield. while your on 
 a mission one of the group members finds some gold on a mercenary. so then you all choose not to 
 follow orders. and the army no longer helps you. they consider you outsiders. so your all now looking 
 for the gold. theres one part in the game where you even stop your armys movements so that you 
 can get closer to the gold. the gameplay is amazing. the graphics are godlike. there are alot of 
 weapons in bad company. you get to drive alot of vehicles, such as a tank, hummer, chopper. there 
 are more also. you even get to drive a golf cart. the group members from time to time say some 
 pretty funny stuff. there always playing paper rock scissors. and you will laugh out loud. either 
 way you really need to play this game. i loved it. it was by far the best first person shooter 
 i played for ps3 or 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexsurf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is one of the funnest games to play. While EA tries to rush you through the campaign with 
 numerous checkpoints and all damage remaining when you die, they make up for it with amazing multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer is one of the best around. With all the destructibility this game offers multiplayer 
 is complete mayhem. Walls being blown off, tanks and trucks exploding and bodies flying. The new 
 Gold-Rush mode is entertaining and the class system works perfectly. Can't wait for the conquest 
 mode update. The only flaw is the short single-player and lack of co-op. This would have been an 
 amazing game with co-op. The multiplayer and explosions defiantly make up for it though. This is 
 one of the funnest games to play. While EA tries to rush you through the campaign with numerous 
 checkpoints and all damage remaining when you die, they make up for it with amazing multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer is one of the best around. With all the destructibility this game offers multiplayer 
 is complete mayhem. Walls being blown off, tanks and trucks exploding and bodies flying. The new 
 Gold-Rush mode is entertaining and the class system works perfectly. Can't wait for the conquest 
 mode update. The only flaw is the short single-player and lack of co-op. This would have been an 
 amazing game with co-op. The multiplayer and explosions defiantly make up for it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUMBOSAUSAGE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I would like to start off by saying the gameplay is so deep in this game i found myself lying in 
 a large foxhole after. The games graphics are better than call of duty 4 and u can blow almost 
 anything up like a spider. The game is also funny and that is good. The online multiplayer is also 
 graphic like a can of wedding. I would say this game is like a double bacon cheeseburger while 
 call of duty 4 is like a tesco value burger with no bun im not saying call of duty 4 isn't good 
 but if u play it after this it just feels boring like an old man. the only bad thing about this 
 game is it didnt come with a free wii and that was kinda unfair but it is a graphic game there 
 is also lots of cars and other fun stuff you can do so that alone gives the game 10 percent of 
 its deep gameplay the enemy ai is ok they tend to shoot you for some reason and i dont find that 
 very funny because i keep dying but no thats ok because you have this thing that brings your life 
 back called the life 2. I dont know if thats copying half life 2 in anyway but it sounds graphic 
 anyway this review of a better game than call of duty 4 is coming to an end so if u like first 
 person shooters with nice graphics, stuff you can blow up, funny, deep, graphic and great multiplayer 
 go and steal one thanks for reading yours sincerely rick roll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vadoc81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is Swedish developer DICE's recent foray into the console first-person 
 shooter arena. Sporting some impressive new upgrades to the age-old Battlefield franchise, the 
 most noteworthy of which being the new highly destructible environments, Bad Company aims to reinvent 
 the first-person shooter genre. Does DICE's sophomore attempt at developing a console shooter fizzle, 
 or does Bad Company flatten the competition?
  
  The Battlefield series has never been known for its singleplayer gameplay, historically featuring 
 a clone of the multiplayer experience, but replacing bots for human players. All that has changed 
 with Battlefield: Bad Company. DICE decided to add some flair to the Battlefield formula by including 
 a worthwhile and solid narrative that manages to stand apart from the other cookie-cutter stories 
 most FPS's suffer from. By putting an emphasis on light-hearted fun and straying away from a high-intensity, 
 drama-charged experience, Bad Company becomes a game that is much more focused than its competition 
 and, ultimately, easier to get into and enjoy. Essentially, Bad Company knows it's a video game. 
 
  
  The storyline follows the events of B-Company, a. k. a. "Bad Company", a squadron within the U. S. 
 army solely designed for the misfits and ragtag soldiers that aren't cut out for the real deal, 
 but are rather better suited to be cannon fodder as deemed by the military. You play the role of 
 Preston Marlow, a soldier whose boredom led him to take a helicopter on a joyride, sequentially 
 landing him a spot in Bad Company. Marlow joins three other members of B-Company: Sergeant Redford, 
 a fairly authoritative figure who keeps the squad in line, Haggard, an explosives expert with a 
 penchant for things that go boom, and Sweet_water, a well-read communications expert who feels 
 he is misplaced in B-Company. 
  
  DICE did a wonderful job of creating intriguing personalities with genuinely humorous interactions 
 that make the virtual actors believable and lifelike without requiring you to feel excessively 
 attached to them. It's this balance that makes up the formula of Bad Company's singleplayer experience, 
 creating a cohesive and tightly knit feel to the storyline. Speaking of story, while Bad Company 
 isn't going to be hailed as one of the greatest story-driven games ever, it should at least be 
 mentioned that the game makes an admirable effort of creating a fun and logical string of events 
 work into the fabrics of a narrative. 
  
  While the beginning does tend to seem a little slow and feels as if it leads nowhere, once the 
 action kicks up and the squad is left to its own devices, things start to crank up considerably. 
 That being said, the pacing in Bad Company is excellent, comparable to the likes of Halo in terms 
 of knowing when the player needs a break from running and gunning and would like a breather. The 
 game employs an auto-checkpoint system that essentially spawns you back at a predetermined spot 
 every time you die. At that point, all enemies that you killed before dying remain dead, and any 
 progress you may have made in terms of objectives stays. While some may resent this due to its 
 inherent exploitability, it works just fine within the contexts of the game, and keeps things from 
 delving into frustrating repetition, especially on the harder difficulties.
  
  But, let's be honest. The Battlefield franchise has never been known for its solo affairs, and 
 the same holds true in Bad Company. Multiplayer is the star of the show here, and man, does it 
 shine bright. Bad Company features incredibly balanced, smooth gameplay that simply feels right, 
 and has an incredibly deep ranking and stats system to boot. There is also a dog tag collection 
 system, which involves a "dog tag" being awarded to the player after a knife kill is executed against 
 an opponent. It's more for bragging rights than anything else, but it's an ingenious little addition 
 that fits well with the presentation of the game. In addition to the dog tag system, there is a 
 deep unlock and awards system, which is composed of rewarding the player for accomplishing certain 
 tasks such as leveling up or getting a specified amount of kills with a badge or weapon. 
  
  While the only incentive for completing the awards is personal satisfaction and achievements, 
 it's still a robust and deep system that extends the lifespan of Bad Company's multiplayer experience 
 considerably. Combine that with the detailed stat tracking and screenshot system that can be accessed 
 online on the game's website, and you have an incredibly compelling multiplayer experience that 
 will keep you playing for months after the game's release, even despite the game's single mode 
 and fairly small amount of maps. It should also be mentioned that, thanks to EA's dedicated servers, 
 Bad Company handles 24 players in one game with complete ease. That's right. Host advantage is 
 negated, everyone has super speedy connections, and the experience is BS-free.
  
  All of this would be fairly cool on its own, but it's the gameplay mechanics of Bad Company that 
 tie everything together and fit a pretty little bow on the top. The tactical destruction capability 
 of DICE's proprietary Frostbite engine is incredible, enabling players to destroy just about anything 
 in the game world. While destructible environments have been done before, they have never been 
 executed this well. The concept doesn't feel gimmicky, and snugly fits with the gameplay by allowing 
 players to carve their own paths through the sandboxes that await them. 
  
  Sniper sitting in a building, but you're too far away to take him out? Why waste ammo? Call in 
 a mortar strike and destroy the entire building, taking out the sniper with devastating artillery 
 rounds. Once you realize how many avenues and opportunities this kind of concept opens up, you 
 begin to see just how special and unique Bad Company really is. One big disappointment about the 
 game however is the lack of the ability to go prone. Battlefield games on the PC have always had 
 this feature, so why was it cut from Bad Company? It becomes extremely frustrating when you're 
 taking a huge amount of fire and can't lay down behind a roadblock because your head pokes up in 
 plain view, despite your attempts to hide while crouching. Besides this fairly obnoxious flaw, 
 Bad Company shines with honed, focused gameplay and balanced experiences in both the singleplayer 
 and multiplayer modes.
  
  Of course, this is a next-gen game, and as such, it must look and sound the part. This is where 
 Bad Company really shines. An impressive sense of scale is conveyed to the player, with sweeping 
 vistas and sloping landscapes that make you feel like a small part of something much bigger. Explosions 
 are beautiful, sending chunks of dirt and, in the case of a building, concrete slabs flying through 
 the air. A nice, light grain filter is applied to the game, making it appear more cinematic. The 
 lighting and texturing are impressive as well, and thanks to the Frostbite engine's power, the 
 game runs at a relatively smooth clip of around 30 FPS, with very rare occasions of slowdown. Unfortunately 
 for standard definition TV owners, the game will play in a widescreen mode that has the screen 
 partially taken up by small black bars at the top and bottom of the screen. This proves to be a 
 minor annoyance at first, but quickly becomes hardly noticeable. However, as nice as the graphics 
 are, they pale in comparison to the incredible sound effects that Bad Company has to offer. HDR 
 Audio (High Dynamic Range Audio) allows the battlefield to come to life with incredibly realistic 
 gunfire, explosions, and best of all, bullet whizzes. Every sound is rendered in real time, so 
 firing or reloading your weapon outside will have a much different sound effect than doing so inside 
 a building. Gunshots crack satisfyingly in the distance, while tank rounds whistle eerily as they 
 rocket past your head. There is simply too much to say about the incredible audio in this game.
 
  
  All in all, Battlefield: Bad Company is an ambitious game that mostly achieves what it was going 
 for. While it doesn't reinvent the FPS genre, it certainly shakes it up quite a bit. The graphics 
 and sounds are a spectacle and look very much at home on the next-generation of consoles. Overall, 
 Bad Company is a great success and DICE should be incredibly proud of themselves of the product 
 they have put out on store shelves. Battlefield: Bad Company is easily worth your 40/$60 of hard-earned 
 cash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the following text is only an opinion, based on my online ( 15 h ) and singleplayer 
 ( 6h ) experience. I beat the game this morning, and decided to give it a highlight on the forums. 
 Feel free to comment on my statements, but please don't take it personnal, again, i'm just stating 
 an opinion.
  
  Single player portion :
  
  The game had a very interesting premise. A bunch of goofballs cracking jokes every now and then, 
 with cool mo-cap cutscenes and lots of redneck music. Sounds like a pretty cool action movie to 
 me, and it seemed fairly interesting. The game, otherwise, didn't totally deliver on it.
  
  First of all, the story is pretty underdevelopped, and could have been much better. I'm a writter 
 ( for a french canadian magazine, and no, english ain't my mother tongue, so sorry for the typos. 
 ) and I get food on my table that way, so that may be why i'm disapointed with what they've come 
 with.
  
  Like I said, the premise was awesome, but overall it was poorly executed.
  
  I've seen some pretty goofy moments, but most of them were online trailers exclusivities, wich 
 is completely stupid ( like the MGS4 parody ) . DICE could have added them very easily into the 
 game, but they chose not to.
  
  Still, you've got some pretty funny moments to see , but the best ones where in the trailers shown 
 on various websites and yet, absent from the game.
  
  Alright so whats the point of complaining about the story in a BF game ? You're right, lets move 
 on.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  The whole gimmick of blowing walls up seemed pretty interesting, but when you realise that every 
 single house in this game is designed the same way, and that every single one of them are lacking 
 DOORS ( what the hell DICE, no doors on houses ?! ) , it gets pretty sketchy. None of them have 
 anything in them, they're just there for you to blow up, wich is dumb. I love me some destruction, 
 yet this game makes it feel forced when all the buildings are presented with the same textures 
 and lack of everything. Once you'll get into a president pallace, wich is ENTIRELY empty.
  
  That said, the game offers you lots of interesting and new weapons to tool with. While they 
 are all good looking and fun to shoot, they all feel the same. From the vast array of assault rifles 
 offered to you, they all more or less have the same recoil and damage ( even if the stats shows 
 there's supposedly differences ) .
  
  Wich means, I can kill a dude while spray and praying with any variant of the AK, or the XM8 and 
 the AUG with the same results. I wasn't expecting total realism, but then again, it feels kinda 
 flat.
  
  The vehicules have pretty bad controls to them ( left trigger to accelerate, what the hell ? OK 
 for tanks, but they should let you switch it, and you can't. ) and their physics is pretty goofy. 
 It happened to me a lot to just bump in a small rock or unmovable wood crates and then see my entire 
 vehicule spin on itself. The helicopters are okay to control, but they're overpowered since you've 
 got infinite missile, wich is bad, because in the last BF installements, you needed to go refill 
 sometimes, adding a realistic break on your rampage.
  
  You can collect gold bars and weapons, but all this is useless. The gold bars don't give you anything 
 but achievements ( wich is dumb considered the premise of the game ) and as for the weapons collectables, 
 you can't even select them at the begining of the level, they'll give you your trusty M4 ALL the 
 time except for one mission.
  
  Your Squad-mates are a bunch of brainless monkeys, and you'll have to kill everyone on your own, 
 because if they actually SHOOT BACK, be prepared to call that a memorable moment. Haggard has a 
 rocket launcher on his back, and not once he used it to destroy one of the dozens of tanks I've 
 fought in the game. Once I was just strafing around a tank, waiting for Haggard to shoot ( he had 
 his rocket launcher aimed at the vehicule ) and after 3 mins, he didn't shot, leaving me to run 
 away and get killed since I had no C4/rockets.
  
  
  As for the MP, I guess it's all a matter of personnal opinion, but with only one game mode and 
 uninteresting unlocks that can be all gathered pretty fast, the game got boring pretty quickly 
 for me. Plus, the fun you'll have is entirely up to weither or not your allies are competent, and 
 not everybody has mates who owns the game. Weapons have a supreme arcade feel to them, and no matter 
 wich one you'll use, it won't change the course of your performance. AR have about 50 bullets per 
 clip each ( okay.. what the hell ) and submachine guns CAN'T be aimed in the iron sight ( what.. the.. f) .
 
  
  Once I was shooting a dude, and he ran towards a tank and instantly popped inside and killed me 
 with a well launched shell. A friend of mine was passing by and she said, '' what the hell, did 
 he just teleported in that tank and automatickly shot you ? '' and I said like.. yeah, it seems 
 so. 
  
  I think that DICE should evolve the BF games and at least get some mounting animations to make 
 the whole thing feel a little more believable and less frustrating, just like that tank moment.
 
  
  
  Overall, I feel like the game could have been much better, and yet it failed on many levels of 
 its execution. Bland level design, empty houses and buildings without doors, underdevelopped characters 
 and disapointing cinematics compared to those shown to hype the game makes it a game that can be 
 describe has '' almost, but not really. ''
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Alright well when I first got the game I was feeling a little bit of negativity towards this game. 
 But if I never got the game then I never would've enjoyed it. Battlefield: Bad Company is out for 
 the ps3 and 360 and I must say it is fun. Blowing buildings up with a grenade or a grenade launcher 
 is fun and the gunfire is actually pretty descent. You play as a soldier who is apart of Bad Company 
 which is basically a team of idiots. At some times, the game will try to make you laugh but, in 
 my opinion, it is just plain bad. THANK GOD sometimes it's funny or I'll would've blown my head 
 off already. Now the game also comes with intense multiplayer that'll keep the gamers happy even 
 if the single campaign sucks. So let's go over the good and bad:
  
  GOOD: Great ways to use explosives; Intense multiplayer; great graphics; destructive environments; 
 good weapons to use.
  
  BAD: Poor humor that'll probably make you slap yourself in the face; story could've been better.
 
  
  One more thing if you get this game get the golden edition of the game. For some reason they want 
 you to pay $10 more so you can use ALL the weapons. Yes the silver edition gives you less guns 
 to use. If it wasn't for this and poor story I would've gave this gave this game a higher score 
 but Battlefield: Bad Company receives an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pizzaro13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  BBC is the best in the battlefield series. First lets talk about the game play. The graphics are 
 amazing at best and can be compared to GTA IV and better than Call of Duty 4. The single player 
 campaign is a little disappointing in the fact that you can't play as co-op but the rest of the 
 game makes up for that. In campaign you can collect gold bars which are optional like Call of Duty 
 4's Intel items. You unlock achievements by collecting them also. This game is more of a funny 
 than serious game which adds to the greatness of it. The online play is wonderful but right now 
 not many people have the game so i cannot right a full online review. But from what i have tested 
 out online it is very good with no lag and large games. Each game can hold up to 24 people which 
 makes it very good. My favorite thing about this game is the Frostbite engine. Developed by DICE 
 it allows the player to destroy 90% of the environment including vegetation buildings vehicles 
 walls and much more. For example if you are looking for a way into a building in Halo or Call of 
 Duty you might spend 5 minutes looking for the entrance but in BBC you can just blow up a wall 
 and step right in. When you are in a tank you can just mow down trees and plats leaving a path 
 of destruction in your wake. I think that the Frostbite engine is perfect and developers should 
 use it more. Overall the game is my favorite game i have ever played right now i recommend everyone 
 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gripfill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  What can be said about this game, its a definate buy and certainly one of the top shooters out 
 there for the 360 at the moment... with Unreal coming out just a week later, most thought that Bad 
 Company would fade into the distance but i can see this really giving UT3 a run for its money!
 
  
  The single player is certainly gripping and keeps you entertained with constant action and long 
 missions, but the one player is nothing compared to what the multiplayer (live) gives you! The 
 fact that most of the surroundings are totally destructable gives it a somewhat unique element, 
 imagine your team-mates are on the other side of a wall and you have no way of gettin to them in 
 order to save the day... well now you do, simply equip your grenade launcher and blow a hole through 
 the wall..!! Its amazing, the explosions, the sounds, the detail in the buildings after they've 
 been blown to smithereens, its got it all!! This games well deserved its release and most people 
 will love it! To those that don't, WHY!?
  
  THIS GAME IS A DEFINATE BUY WHETHER YOU HAVE LIVE OR NOT!!
  
  My personal top 7 shooters on 
 the 360:
  
  1: Call Of Duty 4
  2: Rainbow Six Vegas 2
  3: Halo 3
  4: Battlefield Bad Company
  5: Bioshock
  6: Army Of Two
  7: The Darkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NecKruM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Vraiment bien conu ce dernier opus. Autant en mode solo qu'en multijoueur. Le mode solo est vraiment 
 bien scnaris, on croirait participer  un film de grand cran. Les personnages principaux ont 
 leur propre personalite. Ni trop facile, ni trop difficile, il ce joue bien et est tres accrocheur. 
 
  Le mode Multijoueur nous laisse profiter du nouveau mode de jeux "la conquete de l'or" . Tres bien 
 pens. Le fait de dvrouiller des armes et des objets spciaux ajoutera des nouvelle stratgie 
 en multijoueurs. Le controle des vhicules n'est pas trop difficile, on s'y adapte apres peu de 
 temps. 
  Alors, au plaisir de vous revoir sur le champs de bataille pour une partie de tuerie et de rue 
 vers l'or. 
  Finalement, flicitation aux crateur de BF: BC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  I'm really having a hard time deciding if this is the best in the series yet. BF1942 is a game 
 I played for years and is still played by lots of people. BF 2 is really good but is a system hog. 
 But this game is just flat out fun! But really when it comes down to is good because of its gimmick 
 (the destructibility) . Which all games use a good gimmick to sell.
  
  So what are the pros of the game?
  
  -Obviously the destruction factor! Tanks, rpgs, arty, 
 gun nades... etc They before terrain and blast away anything from walls, shacks, fences, trees... etc. 
 At the end of the game when you get a usually good shot of the map it looks like a diffrent map. 
 Holes all over the field, blast marks, fallen trees, blown up stuff, most buildings torn apart! 
 Its wonderful!
  
  -So what else? As with any newer BF game you get unlocks... for free this time. You just rank up 
 and get them! They do offer other ways such as "Find all Five" or buying the Gold Edition which 
 gets you Level 25 (your highest rank) weapons. And in general you rank up and earn more unlocks 
 towards some new guns and/or fun toys like C4, mines, arty strike, bomb drop (you guide it) and 
 a health kit thing for your self.
  
  -Theres I believe up to 24 people on a map which makes for some good strong matches. Not many games 
 on console allow so many which has always been a setback for team games!
  
  -I personally think almost EVERYTHING is well balanced... almost. More on that later. Even unlockable 
 stuff isn't really any better or worse then any other class weapon you have. 
  
  -There is now a single player campaign which is comedic but I haven't played that fully yet. What 
 I have played was fun but online is where its at.
  
  -The game really pulls you in. If your like me a good game that does everything right makes you 
 feel like your really there! Its great to be shooting from a hummer and see a RPG fly by and take 
 out a wall and swerve you off a road! Then you rush out and into a building only to have a blast 
 rip apart another section as you madly try and find the shooter! All the while you hear the battles 
 raging around you! 
  
  -Which brings up the sounds. For one the sounds are great and once again it just pulls you in. 
 Say you see a tank and you run inside to escape it and assuming it doesn't see you (cause it can 
 drive through the building) the awesome sound it makes as it rumble by is amazing! And with the 
 rumble on the controller it makes it all so real!
  
  Theres just so many pros about this games! I'd take the demo for a spin if its still playable online. 
 If not somehow try to play the full version of this game! It rocks!
  
  There are some negatives. This is more of a general list. Some people don't mind, others do:
 
  
  -Chopper has a problem. We either need more versions of choppers. We need to remove the chopper. 
 Or it needs to be weaker. Now there is also a good portion that think the opposite and say its 
 needs to be stronger. Also either way the chopper is EXTREMELY hard to control. Beware.
  
  -Tking is a problem if you want to use the giant Artillery gun when on Offense. EA is hopefully 
 doing something about that.
  
  -Teamwork tends to work but usually people seem to do there own thing in the squads. Oh yeah squads. 
 When connected you are put on a squad of 4 guys. Sadly not often anyone uses their mics. If they 
 did teamwork would be alot better in some cases. But usually most people know what the going on.
 
  
  Other complains people have are..... things look grainy. Which I don't see, most people don't. 
 Maybe its their tv? It also might be the look of the game. The whole war theme. Also people aren't 
 to thrilled that Conquest mode isn't available at least for 1 month. I look at as more replayability 
 down the road.... and hey its free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCamGrdnr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Name a FPS on 360 and I've probably played it, some good, some not so good. Thankfully Battlefield 
 Bad Company is definently in the good category.
  This is the military combat game we've all been waiting for since this current generation of consoles 
 came out. In this game you can truely wreak havoc on the battlefield, from hitting that tank with 
 a JDAM, or blowing up the wall that that pesky sniper was hiding behind, this game has it all.
 
  
  Yes I said it, you can blow up the wall, not since Red Faction has a game had this much environmental 
 interactivity. Cant find a door? Make your own with a grenade, Is a Tree blocking your view? Cut 
 that bad boy down with automatic weapon fire. I could go on and on about this one gameplay mechanic, 
 but this is supposed to be a review isn't it? Time to get to it.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is the most recent battlefield game made for consoles, and like its predecessor, 
 Battlefield: Modern Combat, this game is focused on class and objective based multiplayer. But 
 unlike BF: MC this game has an actual campaign mode, and while BF: BC's campaign may not win many 
 awards for originality or story in its single player experience, it's still not a bad way to spend 
 15ish hours, and it's great practice for what we all are getting the game for anyway, its multiplayer. 
 And I'll tell you right now, it is AMAZING. All though it is missing the bread and butter conquest 
 mode, (right now anyways) gold rush is a solid interpretation of "Attack and Defend" and should 
 keep you occupied until well after Dice and EA finally patch conquest back into the game.
  
  But how does the game play? Control wise, this game may take some getting used to since its 
 default controls are a little different than COD4 and Halo 3, but it does offer more than one configuration 
 all though I havent found a way to customize them (if there even is a way) , and the Helicopter 
 controls were down right impossible, for me anyways. The on foot controls are pretty solid, and 
 the vehicle controls are good but a little quirky at times.
  
  As far as presentation, this game doesnt dissapoint, it captures the sounds of battle perfectly, 
 from the distant thump of a 120mm tank cannon, the deafening bang from a too close for comfort 
 frag grenade, the sound will immerse you in the game. The visuals are good, with really good smoke 
 effects, and the world blows apart beautifully, and the world looks really good before you blow 
 it away as well. That being said, the game as a grainyness to it that is noticable even in 1080p 
 (kind of like Mass Effect before you turn off the film grain option.) and some the textures seem 
 blurry to me. The game has good graphics, but just not as good as Call of Duty 4, but graphics 
 shouldnt make or break a game in my opinion.
  
  All in all this a very good game that any fan of military shooters should pick up with out a doubt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, the single-player started out slow and I was a bit worried from when I played the demo. 
 The opening cinematic setting the base for the story took a few minutes to watch. It basically 
 explains what "Bad Company" is. (Bad Company is a band of misfit soldiers.) Once that was over 
 some stuff happened (I think I was in a helicopter that blew up. I forget.) and then there was 
 a boring and rather easy training mission. At this point I thought that this game was a waste of 
 of $60. But once I got into the game I couldn't put it down! If I didn't want to use the front 
 door, I made a side one by driving an armored car into the side of the building or using my grenade 
 launcher attachment to blow a hole in it. (Later on I got an RPG. Talk about a kid in a candy store!) 
 Or I could put C4 charges on the wall, run away to a safe distance, pull out the remote detenator, 
 and witness the oh so beautiful sight. Another one of my favorite things is the fact that I can 
 make any vehicle a rolling bomb. (C4 charges are my new best friend at this point.) I plant a C4 
 charge on each side, drive it into the open, atrract enemies, and pull the trigger. You have to 
 try that, especially in multiplayer, Bad Company's most beautiful and rewarding element. The control 
 setup will feel right at home to anyone who plays FPS's (especially Call of Duty 4) . This is an 
 improvement from Battlefield 2's horrid excuse for a control setup. Quite frankly, Bad Company 
 feels completely different from the second entry, in a good way though. A new feature is the ability 
 to sprint. This comes in handy if you have to run from building to building (which you will have 
 to do to avoid being blown to pieces by invading tanks) . Also, as you progress the twenty-five 
 ranks/levels you will earn "credits" which can be used to buy new weapons or "gadgets" for the 
 several classes. (Some weapons have to be unlocked by progressing through ranks.) For instance, 
 in the Assault class, you can use credits to buy an "Auto-Injector", which is a syringe that will 
 fully restore your health. Also, you have an unlimited amount, but they have to "recharge" between 
 uses. The multiplayer matches are just as explosive as the single-player and more fun (even though 
 single player is a blast) . Although, as of today, the only mode is a mode where you either have 
 to Defend gold crates or destroy them (compare to Call of Duty's "Search and Destroy") , but eventually 
 the "Conquest" game mode (the Capture the Flag mode that was Battlfield 2's multiplayer. You could 
 compare this to capturing command posts in Star Wars Battlefront) will be available for download. 
 It will be free, of course, but later there could more downloadable content to come. Also, this 
 game's sound is absolutely amazing. It would be sinful not to play it in surround sound. This game 
 is definately worth a good play through. If you don't have Xbox Live, rent it. If you have Xbox 
 Live, buy it. The multiplayr is worth $60 in itself. Thanks for reading! Also, the classification 
 is hard. It is "immersive", "engrossing", "best in series", "guilty pleasure", "highly addictive", 
 andgood multiplayer" and much, much more. Revolutionary or Ambitious probably describes it best, 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjo_123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i picked this game up a day ago and im done it was kindo short but not once was i board not 
 once. The enviorments are almost fully distructable and the guns were good ok so now you ask why 
 not a 10 well really its that reason on the single player campaign i mean ill admit this the cod4 
 campaign but it was fun to blow stuff up. Ok so what gives this game such a high rating for me 
 the multiplayer its way way better the cod4 where its too fast this one is at just the right speed 
 and when you die you dont really fell like your already back in the game there is no penelty for 
 deaty but i still see people just running not to die and i dont care if i can kill a person before 
 i die im good but it dont work that way cuz you can stay back and shoot long rage sniper or whatever 
 you wanna do and you dont gotta kill you can be a soupportt class fix vehicals to get points or 
 a medic so there it is a 9.5 and a 5 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diegoroots
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The game does has its ups and downs but in the end the creators made a highly enjoyable game with 
 addictive game play to match up. The Everything blow up system as i call it sets a whole new mark 
 for games out there, plus with the addition of the frostbite engine makes everything seem more 
 realistic. With its small details added it made a big difference. The graphics are not only good 
 for a normal tv it sets a new standard for the HD in my opinion. The level up system is set perfect 
 its not too long and its not too short and its just the amount of work you need to achieve that 
 general rank.
  An added bonus is that it is possibly the best in the series to add a new level to the already 
 well known battlefield games. The Online Multiyplayer is very good and sucks you in once you get 
 that first knife in th back of your enemys back. The big maps also set an enormous amount of area 
 to not only play with your squad but to possibly go lone wolf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cakeisntalie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company has great singleplayer, multiplayer, sound, and graphics.
  
  The singleplayer is nice, with a story and all, because previous Battlefield games focused on multiplayer, 
 not so much singleplayer. An enjoyable experience.
  
  Multiplayer, Battlefields big mode. Its better than ever, and the new mode gold rush, while it 
 can get repetitive, is really fun. However, i miss conquest, but EA is adding it after launch, 
 so its coming. The destruction fits really well, and its hard going back to other games because 
 you get so used to the destruction. Sometimes, you may just blow stuff up just for fun and not 
 even focus on the battle.
  
  The sound is amazing, realistic sounding explosions, echoing bullets in quiet places, its just 
 great.
  
  The graphics are good, not the best, but the explosions look great.
  
  Overall this game is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheelman112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Most people on my friends list keep asking me this question: buy, or rent? Well heres the answer, 
 buy if you liked the demo, rent if you did not like the demo or did not download it. In honesty, 
 it not the best fps, not even close, I still think Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3 are the best, but 
 Bad Company is on an entirely different scale. Blowing crap up hasnt been so fun before, and the 
 graphics are outstanding, the difficulty is perfect, and you have the option to pick it, unlike 
 some games like GTAIV. The controls in the vehicles could be improved, a lot actually, I think 
 it's one of the only games you pull L to accelerate, but once you get used to it, it's not so bad. 
 The only thing wrong is the physics of bodies, you shoot two guys and they fall exactly the same, 
 but that's not a big deal, but it's probably the ONLY thing wrong. The sound and voice acting is 
 incredible, you can't easily mistaken the difference between the emotion and voice of each character, 
 and the fact that the Russians can either talk english with an accent, or Russian like, well, a 
 Russian. Now I'm gonna move on to the multiplayer... Not what I expected. The one game type gets 
 old, fast, REALLY fast, and the lack of variety of weapons isn't so great either. And if you come 
 from Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3, you need some serious adjusting to get any good at all. It's also 
 annoying how that you have to rank up in order to get a single unlock credit, yeah that's right, 
 ONE, and you don't know what gun, gadget, or attachement you should get, but the multiplayer is 
 always gonna be fun, it's just not GREAT. Some of the maps are good, but some maps, like Oasis, 
 get annoying, espacially when you finish a match as the Attackers, then start a fresh game as the 
 Defenders, your on the same map, but if your not top picky on maps, don't worry about it. All around, 
 this game is astonishing, definatly worth the wait and the bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overshine
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Until now, we've never seen a central effort to bring the Battlefield series to home consoles. 
 2005 marked the release of Modern Combat, which was soon followed by an Xbox 360 port, both of 
 which became second focus to keeping the PC titles updated. Today, DICE sends us a great big apology, 
 with the apt title of Battlefield: Bad Company.
  
  Let's start with the first item on the menu: singleplayer. You've no doubt heard a lot about Bad 
 Company's characters and their insatiable hunger for gold. The squad you're lumped into serves 
 as the army's official cannon fodder, until they hear the calling and decide to fight their own 
 battle. It's not controversial in the slightest; the game does a nice job of evading any political 
 issues to keep everything light-hearted. Even while fighting an onslaught of enemies, the game 
 tries to lighten the mood with some swift punchlines, which can occasionally be more distracting 
 than funny. It won't be winning any awards, but the storyline does plenty to keep you entertained.
 
  
  Despite this, online is still where the game shines. You fight on 8 maps. Doesn't seem like a lot? 
 The catch is that as you push the enemy team back by destroying their gold crates, more of the 
 map opens up. This basically creates anywhere from 3 to 5 "bases" within a map, each providing 
 a different challenge and requiring new strategies. There's no shortage of variety either, with 
 persistent characters and some nice unlocks which add to your character's strengths.
  
  What will surprise most gamers though is the sheer re-playability of Bad Company's online mode. 
 It makes you tell yourself things such as, "It's morning ALREADY?!" or, "Crap, I have school in 
 2 hours!" It's hard to grow bored of this game when it offers so many things to try: some funny, 
 some bizarre, some completely unintentional. You'll often find the game does a nice job of sucking 
 you in and it's hard to escape.
  
  What we've been given here isn't a glimpse of what other Battlefield games deliver. Digital Illusions 
 has carefully re-crafted a sharper, more infantry-focused experience -- one which I believe overshadows 
 the problems that mass vehicular warfare and mile-wide maps present, all without ditching the spirit 
 of the franchise. Bad Company plays nothing like a Battlefield game, but still manages to feel 
 remarkably like one. It's a refreshing blend of warfare that will have you strapped to your couch 
 well beyond midnight. You simply have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has good graphics, sound, a good story line and weapons but is made great by the highly 
 destructible environments. 
  
  Graphics-9.5 although the graphics aren't the best in video games, they are in the top five. Although 
 the characters faces look a bit grainy, the environments look epic, the guns real and the explosions 
 are simply incredible.
  
  Sound-10.0 gunshots echo across the landscape and explosions are so loud and sharp they made me 
 jump. You can hear trees topple, helicopters hit the ground and houses get blown to the ground.
 
  
  Story-9.0 although the story isn't as good as the rest of the game, any shortcomings are made up 
 for by the story's characters. Although yours is typically quiet, the rest are very well developed, 
 for a video game. Sweetwater and haggard bicker throughout the story as sergeant Redford tries 
 to get haggard to stay put and repeatedly tells Sweetwater "Sweetwater, would you just shut the 
 hell up." The story is genuinely funny at points, and the characters make it interesting all the 
 way through.
  
  Voice acting-9.0 the characters will make comments depending on how the fight is going in addition 
 to the scripted moments. All of the acting is well done with the exception of the occasional flat 
 line.
  
  Weapons-10.0 this game probably has more guns, bombs, and various other things that go boom than 
 any other video game. All the guns feel both realistic and powerful; the range of guns is good 
 (from sniper rifles to shotguns to rocket launchers) , and the air strikes and bombs will blow you 
 away (if you're standing too close to them, they will literally blow you away) . And, of course 
 these are all made better by the destructible environments.
  
  Vehicles-10.0 the tanks are great, the choppers are great and anything else you can drive is great. 
 Need I say more?
  
  Destructibility-9.8 I've been waiting for a video game that let me make this a category. Although 
 you can't completely level houses (the floors, corners stairs and framework will remain standing) 
 this is easily the most (if not only) destructible game ever. Apart from houses, everything is 
 completely destructible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamoMandoa
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game, i had high expectations for it, mainly becuase ive played previous 
 battlefield games myself. Now the singleplayer mode is a great way to occupy your time, but where 
 the game really shines is in its online multiplayer. Tons of achievements for 360 owners, many 
 different weapons and gadgets to unlock, and tons of ranks to rise through for bragging rights 
 among your friends. this is a must have for FPS lovers everywhere. now probably the most outstanding 
 feature is the fully destructable enviornments that are available. Im just going to say it right 
 now, the experience is probable just as you imagined. boxed into a small building by a tank? whip 
 out yous grenade launcher and make an escape hole through the rear wall. in the middle of a field 
 with no cover? toss a granade and hop in the foxhole it leaves behind. Now some of you might be 
 wondering about the sometimes invincile vehicles these games seem to sometimes have. im here telling 
 you that there not. im not saying he vehicles are weak or anything, but they take a more realistic 
 approach. if youre inside an open air light jeep or buggy, you CAN be shot through the windows 
 and they DO take significant damage from small arms fire. now take a tank for instance, and small 
 arms wont cut it , itll take C4 (which has been greatly improved from other games) or an RPG or 
 another vehicles main cannons. now the last imporvement is the knifing. it has been greatly imporved 
 over other games with contact issues with the knife, and out can rapidly cut through a line of 
 enimies if needed, and you have the health to spare. the only con with this game is that the singleplayer 
 mode can get old after a while, and your soilders seems to have to heal himself every 6 seconds. 
 other than those two cons, this game is a must have for the summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is just plain old fun. I love CoD4 and this is nothing like it, and I am glad. 
 The game play is less serious and if the single-player monologue doesn't get you laughing then 
 you should check for a pulse.
  
  You can tell with that the developers enjoyed shooters but with humor and a twist, in this case 
 the gold. The graphics are nice and the sound is really first rate as is the soundtrack to the 
 game.
  
  There are some glitches and small things that I have been able to overlook because of the fun of 
 the game. Things like blowing a hole in the side of a building and the guy on the other side remains 
 standing seems unbelievable but then again I think the developers were should for destructive fun 
 and they achieved that.
  
  My biggest issue with the game comes with online play and has nothing to do with the game itself. 
 There are some players (TheLastToFall and SteelyHomoBobo) to name a couple who are immature in 
 their comments and game play. I observed 'TheLastToFall' berating another player for causing him 
 a team kill. TheLastToFall drove his vehicle into a building where the other player was standing, 
 he hit the player and killed them. Come on that is your fault. I've seen others but these to bozos 
 were the worse and take away from the gaming experience. They are now avoided in my player list.
 
  
  Unlike CoD4 which seems to have a bit more mature community I have found many people like these 
 two in the game and hope they thin out now that the demo is winding down.
  
  Other then that I would seriously recommend this game to anyone who just wants to have fun playing 
 a shooter and listening to some funny dialog in the singleplayer game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammoth666
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company is a great game and fun to play. I think a lot of you COD4 fan boys need to get a grip 
 and go play COD 4. This is Battlefield mechanics are the same as all of the Battlefields. I played 
 both COD and Battlefield on the PC before the Xbox 360 and PS 3 where even though of. COD 4 is 
 a good game but, it was missing a lot of things that Battlefield has always had. Let's add something 
 that this game has that a lot of war games don't have except Fuels of War "Vehicles". There are 
 not many of them and its always fun. Destructible environments WOW best aspect of this game. Makes 
 you think twice about camping behind a wall. The way I see it if you don't like the game don't 
 buy or play it. I am sure we won't miss you. As far as people not understanding that this game 
 is very tactical with your 4 man squads. Points are earned within a squad you just have to know 
 how to play the kits and as a squad. Graphics and sounds are great in this game I don't understand 
 what some of you are talking about that say it's lacking. The lag was bad for a few days but, seems 
 that EA has cleared that up. In game pictures WOW taking one from Halo3 there great now they need 
 to get the servers up and running for that. Now quit your crying and go play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcrslapshot1447
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely is fun if you like blowing up objectives and having cheap online kills. I'm 
 going to play this game for a while ( because nothing is out) , but this shooting is pretty terrible. 
 You're not really sure if your going to hit your target and enemies are so small in this game. 
 Sometimes you can unload your entire magazine into an enemy and they won't die. The campaign is 
 playable, but very irritating. The spawns are all screwed up, and you have to used the auto injector 
 way too much. The ranking system is decent which is a little plus... But a huge minus is the vehicle 
 controls, and how many vehicles there are. It seems like a partial strategy game because of how 
 many tanks and hum v's are driving around. The controls are terrible, especially for the helicopter 
 with LB to go and LT to go back and inverted joy sticks... Fun game with many problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DayWIKR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I think the sound is was has me hooked as well as the graphics are amazing. its a little nicer 
 than call of duty by the fact that its not photo realistic meaning that yes the plants and trees 
 do actually move loll. I'm a sniper so its so amazing to be on the borders of a level and all you 
 hear is crickets and some birds. But off in the distance you will hear the war going. you actually 
 have to lead your target when sniping them and you actually must take your time with your shots, 
 which I loveee ittttt. Ummm... the game experience is pretty much explosive and unique for every 
 class. so you will enjoy yourself playing this game. Also unlike call of duty, you are not forced 
 to fight. If you don't know what i mean is that you could go sit somewhere out of the battle for 
 the whole game you can just stalk enemies and take them out little by little. all in all i absolute 
 believe this game gets a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield returns to the 360 and this time its amazing. I am a massive fan of the franchise owning 
 all of the BF releases exluding vietnam. First of all so i dont waste anyones time let me say this 
 IF like me you have loved BF 1942/BF2/BF2142 then stop reading this and go buy the dam game because 
 as far as im concerned its the best battlefield to date.
  Single Player: battlefield BC (BAD COMPANY) has a story driven single player game and it is great 
 if you are exppecting Halo grandure go look somewere else, however if you enjoy a well told story 
 that is humurous and at the same time ingtreagueing you will not be dissapointed.
  Controls: the controls are simple magnificently put together, the vehicle and person controls are 
 well integrated and feel natural, and if you are new you can expect a MAXIMUM of 15-20 minute learning 
 curve. The only other game i feel i can compare them to is Frontlines: fuel of war in which case 
 the BF: BC are about 10 times better.
  Audio: Simple put the best audio i have ever heard in a game its magnificent from the eco of shooting 
 your gun in doors the the simple eco of a round shell hitting the floor, magnificent.
  Finaly but not leat the Visuals: now BC is not the most visually impressive game on the market 
 but this is due to the fact that almost everything is destructable even online with 24 players 
 with no lag in site whatsoever, however they are still on par with games like COD4 and far better 
 then Frontlines.
  Last point is Multiplayer, this is what ALL battlefields are about and what they are developed 
 on. there are 2 downfalls here and niether of them is that big of a problem. First only 24 player 
 which when compared with the 64 player mayhem of the PC version seems a bit limited BUT the maps 
 are so well designed that it doesnt effect the gameplay whatsoever which is what matters, the second 
 is only 1 game mode online but the Gold rush mode is so great that to be honest another mode is 
 not necessarily but will definetly be welcomed. Overall its a brilliant multiplayer experienced 
 that no XBOX owner should deny himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ek11sx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company handles multiplayer very differently than any other game out. It's reminiscent 
 of open sandbox PC multiplayer like Delta Force, so old PC vets will feel at home. The whole singleplayer 
 is just to get achievements and use weapons, but the multiplayer is where its at. The classes are 
 very balanced and fun and the unlockables are great. The ranking system is good too, providing 
 a decent level up system. The party squand system is good, but a squad leader system would be better. (squad 
 leaders talk to each other and coordinate attacks) The game mode is also really fun and DICE is 
 known for good patches that actually come out.. ahem RSV2. The whole online component is awesome 
 and the sound is revolutionary. Games sound is not usually this orgasmic. Overall you'll love it 
 or hate and i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is Swedish developer DICE's recent foray into the console first-person 
 shooter arena. Sporting some impressive new upgrades to the age-old Battlefield franchise, the 
 most noteworthy of which being the new highly destructible environments, Bad Company aims to reinvent 
 the first-person shooter genre. Does DICE's sophomore attempt at developing a console shooter fizzle, 
 or does Bad Company flatten the competition?
  
  The Battlefield series has never been known for its singleplayer gameplay, historically featuring 
 a clone of the multiplayer experience, but replacing bots for human players. All that has changed 
 with Battlefield: Bad Company. DICE decided to add some flair to the Battlefield formula by including 
 a worthwhile and solid narrative that manages to stand apart from the other cookie-cutter stories 
 most FPS's suffer from. By putting an emphasis on light-hearted fun and straying away from a high-intensity, 
 drama-charged experience, Bad Company becomes a game that is much more focused than its competition 
 and, ultimately, easier to get into and enjoy. Essentially, Bad Company knows it's a video game. 
 The storyline follows the events of B-Company, a. k. a. "Bad Company", a squadron within the U. S. 
 army solely designed for the misfits and ragtag soldiers that aren't cut out for the real deal, 
 but are rather better suited to be cannon fodder as deemed by the military. You play the role of 
 Preston Marlow, a soldier whose boredom led him to take a helicopter on a joyride, sequentially 
 landing him a spot in Bad Company. Marlow joins three other members of B-Company: Sergeant Redford, 
 a fairly authoritative figure who keeps the squad in line, Haggard, an explosives expert with a 
 penchant for things that go boom, and Sweet Water, a well-read communications expert who feels 
 he is misplaced in B-Company. DICE did a wonderful job of creating intriguing personalities with 
 genuinely humorous interactions that make the virtual actors believable and lifelike without requiring 
 you to feel excessively attached to them. It's this balance that makes up the formula of Bad Company's 
 singleplayer experience, creating a cohesive and tightly knit feel to the storyline. Speaking of 
 story, while Bad Company isn't going to be hailed as one of the greatest story-driven games ever, 
 it should at least be mentioned that the game makes an admirable effort of creating a fun and logical 
 string of events work into the fabrics of a narrative. While the beginning does tend to seem a 
 little slow and feels as if it leads nowhere, once the action kicks up and the squad is left to 
 its own devices, things start to crank up considerably. That being said, the pacing in Bad Company 
 is excellent, comparable to the likes of Halo in terms of knowing when the player needs a break 
 from running and gunning and would like a breather. The game employs an auto-checkpoint system 
 that essentially spawns you back at a predetermined spot every time you die. At that point, all 
 enemies that you killed before dying remain dead, and any progress you may have made in terms of 
 objectives stays. While some may resent this due to its inherent exploitability, it works just 
 fine within the contexts of the game, and keeps things from delving into frustrating repetition, 
 especially on the harder difficulties.
  
  But, let's be honest. The Battlefield franchise has never been known for its solo affairs, and 
 the same holds true in Bad Company. Multiplayer is the star of the show here, and man, does it 
 shine bright. Bad Company features incredibly balanced, smooth gameplay that simply feels right, 
 and has an incredibly deep ranking and stats system to boot. There is also a dog tag collection 
 system, which involves a "dog tag" being awarded to the player after a knife kill is executed against 
 an opponent. It's more for bragging rights than anything else, but it's an ingenious little addition 
 that fits well with the presentation of the game. In addition to the dog tag system, there is a 
 deep unlock and awards system, which is composed of rewarding the player for accomplishing certain 
 tasks such as leveling up or getting a specified amount of kills with a badge or weapon. While 
 the only incentive for completing the awards is personal satisfaction and achievements, it's still 
 a robust and deep system that extends the lifespan of Bad Company's multiplayer experience considerably. 
 Combine that with the detailed stat tracking and screenshot system that can be accessed online 
 on the game's website, and you have an incredibly compelling multiplayer experience that will keep 
 you playing for months after the game's release, even despite the game's single mode and fairly 
 small amount of maps. It should also be mentioned that, thanks to EA's dedicated servers, Bad Company 
 handles 24 players in one game with complete ease. That's right. Host advantage is negated, everyone 
 has super speedy connections, and the experience is BS-free.
  
  All of this would be fairly cool on its own, but it's the gameplay mechanics of Bad Company that 
 tie everything together and fit a pretty little bow on the top. The tactical destruction capability 
 of DICE's proprietary Frostbite engine is incredible, enabling players to destroy just about anything 
 in the game world. While destructible environments have been done before, they have never been 
 executed this well. The concept doesn't feel gimmicky, and snugly fits with the gameplay by allowing 
 players to carve their own paths through the sandboxes that await them. Sniper sitting in a building, 
 but you're too far away to take him out? Why waste ammo? Call in a mortar strike and destroy the 
 entire building, taking out the sniper with devastating artillery rounds. Once you realize how 
 many avenues and opportunities this kind of concept opens up, you begin to see just how special 
 and unique Bad Company really is. One big disappointment about the game however is the lack of 
 the ability to go prone. Battlefield games on the PC have always had this feature, so why was it 
 cut from Bad Company? It becomes extremely frustrating when you're taking a huge amount of fire 
 and can't lay down behind a roadblock because your head pokes up in plain view, despite your attempts 
 to hide while crouching. Besides this fairly obnoxious flaw, Bad Company shines with honed, focused 
 gameplay and balanced experiences in both the singleplayer and multiplayer modes.
  
  Of course, this is a next-gen game, and as such, it must look and sound the part. This is where 
 Bad Company really shines. An impressive sense of scale is conveyed to the player, with sweeping 
 vistas and sloping landscapes that make you feel like a small part of something much bigger. Explosions 
 are beautiful, sending chunks of dirt and, in the case of a building, concrete slabs flying through 
 the air. A nice, light grain filter is applied to the game, making it appear more cinematic. The 
 lighting and texturing are impressive as well, and thanks to the Frostbite engine's power, the 
 game runs at a relatively smooth clip of around 30 FPS, with very rare occasions of slowdown. Unfortunately 
 for standard definition TV owners, the game will play in a widescreen mode that has the screen 
 partially taken up by small black bars at the top and bottom of the screen. This proves to be a 
 minor annoyance at first, but quickly becomes hardly noticeable. However, as nice as the graphics 
 are, they pale in comparison to the incredible sound effects that Bad Company has to offer. HDR 
 Audio (High Dynamic Range Audio) allows the battlefield to come to life with incredibly realistic 
 gunfire, explosions, and best of all, bullet whizzes. Every sound is rendered in real time, so 
 firing or reloading your weapon outside will have a much different sound effect than doing so inside 
 a building. Gunshots crack satisfyingly in the distance, while tank rounds whistle eerily as they 
 rocket past your head. There is simply too much to say about the incredible audio in this game.
 
  
  All in all, Battlefield: Bad Company is an ambitious game that mostly achieves what it was going 
 for. While it doesn't reinvent the FPS genre, it certainly shakes it up quite a bit. The graphics 
 and sounds are a spectacle and look very much at home on the next-generation of consoles. Overall, 
 Bad Company is a great success and DICE should be incredibly proud of themselves of the product 
 they have put out on store shelves. Battlefield: Bad Company is easily worth your $60 of hard-earned 
 cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullking224
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  i love this game one of the best games i have played in a while well the MP i have not played the 
 single player yet Bad Company has so much destruction giving you unlimited ways to kill someone, 
 put C4s on a wall blow it up, the wall is gone
  the sniper rifle is alot eazier to use i killed alot of people with it and i have just started 
 playing its not like COD4 sniper rifle i dont know whats was wrong with that loved the game just 
 not the sniper rifle on BC they made it perfect just need to lead your shots a little and u got 
 him
  They have unlockables on this game so u have to play to get things i think that is cool because 
 its different from alot of games i play u just get everything in the beginning not that it bothers 
 me just it gets old not having to do anything just get what u need 
  i like the way this game works one of the best fps i have played 
  hit me up on XBOX LIVE 
 
  Rebel228833 
  see you guys in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothybprice
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Was completely looking forward to playing this, both single and multi... Who wasn't looking forward 
 to some more vehicle driven FPS action. Overall I am ehhhh okay with it so far. Maybe I have to 
 relearn the maps or get used to the controller layout again.. But there is still something missing 
 that BF2 really had down pat. 
  
  The graphics are familiar, certainly the physics engine is more enjoyable, but I am also finding 
 the environments to be a lot more confusing. Not sure if anybody feels the same way but I am finding 
 a lot of objects in the way for the sake of knocking it down v. achieving the strategic advantage. 
 Put shortly Spray and Pray seems to be a mode I need to resort to more often than not. I was hoping 
 for a few more vehicle types, hopefully we will see some more DLC maps in the future.
  
  Is it going to get me through the summer? Maybe.. Maybe not... I've got the funny feeling COD4 is 
 going to find its way back into the tray...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazyplayer-187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  absolutly brilliant game, amazing multiplayer, giving the player the ability to drive; boats, tanks, 
 cars, helicopters etc. the concept of the multiplayer is brilliant and keeps to the traditions 
 of the battlefield games well. The range of weapons that you can have in this game has a wide aray 
 ranging from automatic shotguns to 50 caliber sniper rifles, the single player is also very immense 
 and has a comedic charm to it, the characters are very believable and funny at times. This game 
 takes its inspiration from the movie three kings so the story is very interesting and will keep 
 the player engripped for a long time, all building etc in the game are fully destructable so you 
 can create your own path to flank your enemies. Mean while the multiplayer will keep players entised 
 for months to come.
  
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  ".. a marvelous game.. the beauty of this game lies in the simplicity it holds and the power it has.. the 
 game play is so interesting and fun that you wont stop the single player campaign and to top it 
 all is the multi-player mode. graphics are excellent, great and visually stunning landscapes, great 
 free movements around the large world, good story which matches very well with the possibilities 
 in the game play like free driving, destructible environments with good effects, great team AI, good 
 detail for the team and also for all the foes, very detailed and well planned, scaled and modeled 
 side screen map, surprisingly i found the script of the game very funny and realistic ( like searching 
 unexplored houses in between war is always fun, flirting with the radio girl, you always don't 
 need a door to get into a house-use your rocket launcher ) , the learning curve of the game is very 
 well balanced and simple, fun to be driving the vehicles always off the track bouncing it through 
 the rocks and entering the enemy camp from any side and starting the assault, a very good buy and 
 a very well made game in all aspects in recent times. it is battlefield series to the next level 
 and a must have for any 360 gamer.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larchange
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  It shows that it is immensely satisfying to blow almost everything you see with almost all the 
 cool weponary you can find. Have been playing it non-stop since i got it less than 24 hours ago 
 and stopping only to sleep! Lots of bickering between teammates adds character and humour on this 
 humorous take on a conflict. Dont get me wrong, the combat is all serious and extremely addictive. 
 Great checkpoint system. There is so much style and awesome-ness that you cant help choking with 
 excitement each time something blows up all so magnificently. Though there is a singleplayer campaign, 
 it is relatively short as you just keep begging for more. You'll be tempted to replay it on hard 
 just for fun even without completing it your first time through. Finding gold bars and new weapons 
 to unlock that achivemet is enough motivation to do so. 
  
  Its a free open world; driving, running snd shooting your way THROUGH obstacles and everywhere. 
 Nothing wil stand in your way from reaching your destination and having fun. 
  
  A good choice to rush to the nearest EB to buy it but be warned that to extend its life you must 
 have LIVE. Enjoy the play... you really will. Want to get back to it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Bad Company is breath of fresh air from games like Call of Duty, Gears of War, etc. It may lack 
 the polish that other games have, but it still stands as a fun game to play. The Campaign is great 
 for a series that has always been based on multiplayer. It stars a squad of colorful personalities 
 who keep the theme of Bad Company alive. It is quite fun, even though it is not difficult because, 
 when you re spawn, everything you have killed, destroyed, etc. is left as it was when you died. 
 (Like Bioshock) You are not punished for death (there is some exceptions to this rule) . It puts 
 you back in the field of battle. This does however, keep the action flowing. The Campaign also 
 has collectibles on each chapter to add a little to the replay value. But do not buy this game 
 if you want single player only, it doesn't justify the value of $60 without the multiplayer. 
 
  Now I will go onto the multiplayer. The multiplayer is where the game really shines. The carnage 
 and destruction is shown at its peak. Walls are torn down, houses left in shambles, the battlefield 
 shapes as the fighting goes on. This does happen in the campaign as well but it's not the same. 
 The game has one mode, which involves one team defending crates full of gold, while the other team 
 tries to destroy them. The multiplayer has a rank system which is twenty-five ranks to go through. 
 Every other rank earns you a credit, which allows you to unlock a weapon of your choice. The game 
 has thirty five guns and 5 misc. weapons. There are also quite a few vehicles in the game as well, 
 including tanks, trucks, helicopters, boats. The game also has a good map design, and the maps 
 are quite large.
  The flaws I found are that the game can get pretty frustrating with so much carnage; you can get 
 "spawn-killed" endlessly and randomly killed even when you have fired an entire clip at the same 
 person who killed you. (Shot gunners, I am looking at you) Also, the game can get kind of stale 
 with only one mode to play on. (Soon to be changed with an upcoming "free patch" that will include 
 the old battlefield mode.) 
  But in all, Bad Company is a great game that can keep you busy until this dry spell of good games 
 is over.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markd751
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that this is the first game ive seen on 360 that takes advantage of big maps. 
 Why dont other developers get it? in war, you should not be told where to go or how to fight. For 
 this i commend EA and also for the distructable environment. This is a first and it has set the 
 standard for future games. Any game released for shooters here after must have destructable environments 
 or it will be considered dated. 
  
  Now the Bad: what can i say i am very dissapointed with the weapons. It really doesnt matter wether 
 you have a 50Cal sniper rifle or an M24, they both have the same physics and neither is less or 
 more powerful. I am starting to suspect that all weapons physics are the same. The only thing thats 
 different is how the weapons looks or rate of fire. This is very dissapointing since earning more 
 powerful rifles should count for something. Also there is absolutely no wind or gravity effect 
 on the bullet, it will hit where ever you point so sniping is a snap. Although you can point straight 
 at an enemy and hit him it will sometime show as a miss. ive hit people with point blank 50. Cal 
 round and they just brush it off and continue running. This is the only reason i gave it an 8.5, 
 because i felt for a game that has so many great features, they should have fixed weapons physics. 
 I hope this will be fixed in future patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slaughtahouse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Its been a long time since the game was announced back at E3 2006 i believe, but DICE hit the spot 
 with its new "Frostbite" engine. The single player is great adventure but may not please all fps 
 fans but it was good enough for me. If it wasen't your cup of tea then mulitplayer is outstanding, 
 like everyother battlefeild the game really shines online.
  
  Bad Company is a group of rejects that the army didnt want but had to keep so they placed them 
 in a specfic company called "B company" or Bad Company. Your the new kid Preston Marlowe and you 
 and three other soliders go off and have to fufill your duty as a soilder until money comes into 
 play. On your first mission you encounter missionaries who are payed with gold bars. Soon after 
 you obtain one of these gold bars the squad goes on a spree for finding gold. Your squad of misfits 
 are Marlowe (you) , Haggard (explosives) , Sweetwater (support) , and your sarge Redford. Easly 15 
 mins into the game you will relize that Redford is like the dad giving commands and naging while 
 Haggard and Sweetwater are like the Terriable twins always bickering but you can get a good laugh 
 out of them espically Haggard. The campaign will last you about 6-8 hours on easy, 10 hours on 
 normal and 12-14 hours on hard but the game isnt that hard in the first place because when you 
 respawn in the campaign its like multiplayer its not like halo when in halo you kill three enemies 
 and get killed by the fourth you have to kill them allover agian but it Bad Company if you kill 
 three and get killed by the fourth enemy you'll spawn near by with those three enemies still dead. This 
 takes alot out of the challange but battlefeild games never really had a campaign before so this 
 is fine for their first campaign. Also in the campaign you have a needle to stab into yourself 
 if your low on health and after you use it it takes about 7 seconds for it to fill up agian but 
 the problem is that you will be stabing yourself so many times that it lookes like it hurts just 
 to use it. Its just a little annoying but it keeps you alive so its handy. Overall campaign 8.5
 
  
  Now lets get onto the best part , the multiplayer! You'll spend most of your time in here playing 
 on 8 of the maps that are on the disk. Now I know ure thinking "only 8 maps? CoD4 had like 15". 
 Well these maps are huge!! you could fit all of the Cod 4 maps on just Oasis and Harvest Day. Right 
 now theres only one game type where its like serch and destroy and attack and defed and team deathmatch 
 all in one. One team attacks other defends two gold crates. The defenders lose if the lose all 
 of their crates and attack lose if they lose there lives. If two gold crates are destroyed then 
 a new part of the map opens and the defenders defend that while the attackers get the old defenders 
 base and so forth until no more gold but the attackers have a pot of lives that everyone shares 
 off and when its empty you lose. You can get more lives but taking down a whole base. There are 
 tons of unlocks and rankings to be had and you can take screenshots which most people dont know 
 with the Dpad. I had only one problem with online and that is you can choose to spawn at your base 
 or where your squad (team) is, but sometimes i choose on where i want to spawn then theres a flash 
 and i spawn somewhere else . Its really annoying!! but thats my only complaint. There will be another 
 game mode coming to called "Conquest" which is team deathmatch to anyone who hasen't played a battlefeild 
 game before.
  The multiplayer is outstanding and I used to play Cod 4 alot but i got annoyed by all the airstirkes 
 and gernades and m16/p90 noobs but this game is really balanced. Its well done and by far the best 
 online game out there. Overall Multiplayer 9.7 , would of been a 10 but the spawning glitch is 
 annoying.
  
  So if your looking for a fantastic game to keep you in for the dry gaming summer this is it. Heck 
 its a good enough game to compete with the holiday season games. Overall game 9.3 ( round it up 
 to 9.5) O almost forgot , with the Frostbite engine you can blow up anything!! walls , trees, buildings 
 , vehicals you name it i can be blown up !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon5180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  First off, nothing is more fun then driving a tank into the side of a building to run down an enemy. 
 Or taking a grenade launcher and exposing an enemy hiding behind a shed. 
  One of the features that I really like is the way you acquire new weapons. instead of unlocking 
 them when you get an achievement, all you have to do is pick up the weapons from the battlefield. 
 
  The single player has a very compelling story line and memorable characters and occasionally some 
 funny bits of humor. Some of the enemy's are a little bot like sometimes and it would be nice if 
 your squad could help out at times. The only other gripe about the single player aspect is that 
 your teammates can not die. Not sure what the point of that was but it would have been great if 
 your teammates could take one for the team, then you could go heal them or something.
  Multiplayer is really where this game hits on all cylinders. There is nothing like picking off 
 a chopper pilot in mid-air with a sniper rifle, then watch as the passenger jumps out forgetting 
 that there are no parachutes in B-company. On that note, what happened there?? It would have been 
 so easy to add parachutes to the game. It kind of makes you not want to get in a chopper when someone 
 else is flying. Once you are in the air, you are stuck there. If you are unfortunate enough to 
 get a NooB pilot, you best jump out and save yourself the headache of yelling at him/her.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Now, this is only judging from playing through the single player. I do not have XBOX LIVE Gold 
 therefor cannot try the multiplayer. Bad Company is just an average FPS. Just like every other 
 shooter out there. You walk around shooting guys and occasionally blow up tanks. The only thing 
 that makes it stand out is that you can switch to a grenade launcher thing on some of the guns 
 and blow holes in houses, fences, etc, to gain easier access or to expose an enemy that's hiding 
 in one of the houses (it doesn't even blow the enemy up even after blowing half the house up that 
 he was stading inches away from which is kinda stupid) . Also, it attempts to be funny (I laughed 
 pretty hard once) ... I think to kind of make up for it not being that great. While playing through 
 the single player I kept thinking to myself, "What makes this game so much better or unique than 
 Blacksite, Timeshift, or any other mediocre FPS' like those out there?" It felt kind of like I 
 was playing the "new Medal Of Honor" or something. The gameplay and shooting guys felt like Airborne 
 with a twist. All the levels are the same. All the environments are the exact same (except the 
 last mission which looks a tad different) . You just go from one area to the next shooting guys 
 in and around houses. Nothing special. Not to say I didn't enjoy it, but I don't think it deserves 
 an 8.5. Maybe the multiplayer determined that. I don't know. Even if the multiplayer is great... I 
 would probably just still play Call Of Duty 4. So, I would recommend renting this if you're just 
 lookin' to play through the story once. Not bad, but nothin' new. C. O. D. 4 is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amr_tawfik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  I have played the story-line it is great, and i've been ranking my level on the multiplayer gameplay, 
 and it is AWESOME! The EA servers are exlante they did good on BF: Bad Company! I recommend this 
 game to all of Call of Duty/Rainbow Six/Frontline players! Check this game out! It's badass!! It's 
 strategic, IMO. And very organized! Whenever you stab someone, you collect their dog tags! But 
 the levels are just right, and very fun with friends. If you are looking for a new recent shooter 
 to pick up, this is definitely a recommendation without a doubt. I played Call of Duty for a long 
 long time, and I am pretty good, but this is a new challenge, and the online play is beyond badass. 
 I think everyone should at least give it a chance!! Message me up for anything!
  
  it is the best
  it is the best
  it is the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wifout_teef
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't coming out of my 360 any time soon.
  
  Graphics: This is one of the best points of the game. I swear, these graphics are the best I've 
 ever seen on the 360. I could go on forever about these graphics but my favorite parts are the 
 smoke effects, the explosions, and the environments. The smoke effects are just amazing; when you 
 blow up a vehicle half across the map, you can see a column of smoke going up into the air and 
 it looks so life like, almost like a cgi cutscene. The explosions are great too, you'll see sparks, 
 pieces of whatever you blew up flying around, and more smoke effects. Last but not least are the 
 environments. These are so amazing, the trees look very life like and the lighting is impeccable. 
 My only problem is the weird grainy effect the game has.
  
  Sound: On my surround sound setup, this game sounds lifelife. You'll hear bullets wizzing around 
 you, grenades exploding, and houses being knocked down almost on top of you, all with great sound 
 design. I love to hear the artillery shells explode around me and make my house shake. Also, when 
 a sniper fires from almost a mile away, you will hear the crack of the rifle and then a second 
 later, you'll hear the dirt.. or your head explode from the shot. Also the music is great too. 
 The orchestra section is movie-quality and made a great version of the battlefield theme song. 
 The other section, which is more modern, does some great songs to fit the mood too.
  
  Story: For the first story-based Battlefield game, the storyline is very well done. You play as 
 Marlow, a soldier sent to Bad Company, which is a collection of 'bad' soldiers deemed expendable 
 by the US Army. Your squad consists of Redford, a hardened sergeant, who was sent here to shorten 
 his tour, Haggard, an explosion loving soldier, and Sweet Water who is a nerdy support gunner. 
 Your squad goes AWOL after discovering a mercenary organization that is transporting gold. I have 
 not beaten the game yet, but I still love the story.
  
  Gameplay: This is where it all comes down. This game has superb gameplay like all the other battlefield 
 games. This game is class based and you get to use an array of weapons and vehicles, etc. to destroy 
 the enemy. I'm not going to explain every part, since I'm sure everyone has played a battlefield-esque 
 game before. The destructible environments add a lot to this game and can change the tide of a 
 battle since you can just blow a hole in almost anything to ruin a sniper's day.
  
  Replay Value: This is Battlefield, the game has infinite replayability, and that's final.
  
 
  Some complaints I have for BFBC are that there is no co-op, the servers suck, and there is no 
 conquest mode yet.
  
  Bottom Line: you must buy this game if you are a BF fan, especially if you have xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iFragMuffinMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Sure the game's multiplayer got off to a rocky start to say the least. server problems, dissconnection 
 problems, and all sorts of other bumps along the way. These however are now fixed, and the multiplayer 
 is just what you would hope for, Call of Duty 4, with vehichles and exploding buildings. The graphics 
 were really well done to look like a movie, often grainy to give that effect. The characters in 
 single player are also very rich in character, each one well defined amd perfected to get a personality. 
 With the Goldrush gametype being so entertaining, I doubt anyone will mind the wait for the conquest 
 type to arrive.
  
  Overall (out of five for each)
  Graphics-4.5, a few minor glitches such as skin overlapping clothes occationally.
  
  Single 
 Player- 5, A true gem.
  
  Multiplayer- 5, Now that the connection problems are fixed.
  
  Sound- 5, Just sounds right, and voice acting is perfect.
  
  Overall this is going to entertain 
 me through the summer, and probably into the next holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Based off a actual unit from the U. S Army, Bad Company really is a unit formed from misfits that 
 had a choice of prison or service. From the get go Bad Company has a familiar battlefield feel to 
 it, wide open spaces and a hundred ways to get anywhere. Soon after starting though battlefield 
 alumni will find some very new and probably very welcome additions to an old formula. 
  So let's start with the meat of any battlefield, the levels. The addition of destructive environments 
 to battlefield is a very much welcome one. Though houses are cookie cutter and you'll notice that 
 floor plans are repeated again and again, as well damage to houses is the same no matter how you 
 hit them due to their pre-cut design. Not to fear though a good texture count means even though 
 floor plans are the same you'll rarely see the same wallpaper or flooring, making every home feel 
 a little more unique. Beyond that levels are painfully detailed, as areas that you'll never go 
 into for any reason have their own specials touches. A broken wood bridge here, shattered rocks 
 there or a small murky body of water. This translates to gorgeous level layouts where you actually 
 do play the game, firefights where ever they take place are great fun. Though the urban house to 
 house combat is probably the most fun. As well while most open area games like this one tend to 
 be very light on foliage and green stuff Bad Company make anything that isn't a house area as close 
 to a forest as well a forest. Tree lines so thick you can't see someone right in front of you 
 adds both frustration and coolness to combat. While trees are a visual blockage in combat there 
 is just something oh so cool about laying heavy fire into a tree filled area and watching parts 
 of forest fall.
  Next up graphics. While past BF titles seemed to lag slightly behind current gen graphics Bad Company 
 seems to match if not raise the bar. While graphically the game doesn't top titles like Gear of 
 War, the addition of destructible environments with the graphics truly makes one feel good with 
 the look. While water tends to be less visually attractive than other titles explosion effects 
 are top notch. Debris and such couldn't be in more abundance than when a vehicle or house explodes 
 into a ball of flaming goodness. Character models look good as well; facial animations are quite 
 good and keep a feeling of emotion with the characters.
  Story  While past battlefields had stories that were little more than 'It's a war'; Bad Company 
 has quite an interesting one. Of course the story of soldiers plundering war zones for loot is 
 an old tale, good narrative and great in game dialogue pushes the games story to a whole new level. 
 If the chatter between your squad mates doesn't get you laughing then you may need to go to the 
 doctor for a check up. While in most games of this type one may choose to skip the cut scenes to 
 go straight to the action, I found myself unable to skip cut scenes even if I had already watched 
 merely due to the comedy in some of them. 
  Six gun quota  Weapon selection in Bad Company is great, each gun has a specific feel. While players 
 will most likely find themselves sticking to the M series of firearms (M16, M243 and such) there 
 is a wide enough variety to fill anyone persons gun totting needs. The selection though couldn't 
 be called a selection really, more like a grab bag of chance. While the game has a 'Collections' 
 screen of all the different guns you have had the weapon you wield is entirely based on what you 
 can find in the field during combat. Most annoying is when you finish a mission and go to the next, 
 your current weapon load out is wiped and reset to your start rifle and no special item at all. 
 This can be tedious at times as a few levels won't furnish you with a decent fire arm until about 
 half way through, luckily your standard weapon is ok. During play though it came to mind that your 
 starting weapon isn't in your collections screen. So when switching weapons it's impossible to 
 compare any weapon you may pick up to the one you have. Since in collection the Accuracy, Damage 
 and Rate of Fire are all represented in bar form, comparing weapons stats is a great way to know 
 if you're trading up or down. Overall the weapon selection is excellent in my book. Though the 
 lack of an MP5 is rather confusing, as well the sniper rifles all have the exact same stats except 
 for one. They all have max accuracy, lack about one 10th or so of a full bar for damage and have 
 very low reload (since they're single shot) . This isn't a big problem, though the M34 (M82 in real 
 life) is supposed to be an anti material rifle, meaning anti armor. Yet it seems to be useless 
 against anything above a hefty soldier. Moving on
  Vehicles  The transportation selection in Bad Company isn't nearly as large as the weapons but 
 serve a great purpose in any of their forms. Typically there is only one of each type, one Troop 
 transport, one recon buggy, one APC and one helicopter. The only thing there is more than one kind 
 of it tanks, in which there tend to be a few variations. During single player the tank types raise 
 as the campaigns difficulty does, as the enemy gets better tanks so do you. While at this point 
 and time I haven't had the luck of finding a jet of any kind it wouldn't surprise me if one existed. 
 This time around helicopter controls feel natural and well thought out, being that you spend no 
 time trying to just keep it in the air and can put all your concentration into combat. 
  Special Items  The single player mode this time around has special items, located second to the 
 health needle these make the difference between life and death a lot of times. The power tool is 
 first up, basic in its use. Just run up to a damaged vehicle and hold fire till the health bar 
 fills up. This one is a must for a tank escort mission you get, where three tanks get completely 
 ambushed during the entire mission. Next is a Mortar support remote, this little green pad is the 
 first support special item you get. Basically you point it at whatever you want to blow up and 
 hold fire, shortly there after it blows up in a beautiful display of firepower. Raining shells 
 on homes is great fun as it simplifies life by reducing homes to mere skeletons giving the enemy 
 no where to hide. The best part is that the mortars recharge in use, meaning there is no limit 
 to how many times you can use the ability. Last are the Painter goggles, used to paint targets 
 for air strikes. Overall this thing is useless especially compared to the mortar ability. Mainly 
 because you can only paint vehicle targets, homes and bare land can't be bombed. This wouldn't 
 be bad but when you have heavy machine gun/ cannon fire coming at you it's near impossible since 
 there IS a distance restraint on the goggles. Sadly while using them is a pain and just plain frustrating 
 at times, the fact is in the first level where you get them its obvious the level design was meant 
 to force you to use them since the mortar pad or rockets are no where to be found. Using them is 
 strictly a trial and error tactic though, chances are you're going to die a few times during certain 
 conflicts with armor due to your need to be so close to tanks while painting them you'll have to 
 find angles where you can see them but the tank can't arch shells to you. Once you find a mortar 
 remote though ditch the goggle since the mortars do the exact same but with more firepower and 
 with the ability to attack land and houses. The only plus to the air strike would be that after 
 the drop you get to guide the bomb by hang, while this is annoying if you are trying to hit what 
 you actually targeted since the bomb won't hit the target unless you guide it. This can be exploited. 
 As in you can target your own tank (once out of it) then after the bomb drops guide the bomb to 
 an entirely different target (say a gun turret installation or a house) and blow it up. Though 
 this requires some ingenuity and rarely will work out perfectly, it's a decent substitute till 
 you can get your hands on the mortars again.
  Sound  Usually I don't think a game really needs a section just to talk about its sound. Bad Company 
 is a rare exception though, as it is probably the best sounding and most realistic sounding war 
 game to date. Gun shots and explosions not only faded in volume from distance but also change sound, 
 a gun shot from close is a booming sound while from a far it's more of a popping sound. The effects 
 of close explosions are also amazing, as shell shock actually can suck the sound with a high pop 
 from the world. Fire fights sound better than ever as gun fire from every direction can not only 
 be heard clearly on surround sound but also changes pitch accordingly to direction. As well character 
 chatter only enhances combat, while in the midst of a fire fight having team's mates from both 
 sides screaming at each other is extremely immersive and something that should keep any war junky 
 content. Boasting some of the most realistic sounds I've ever heard for guns also makes the gun 
 battles that much more intense, you've got to try this out if you have full 5.1 even if you're 
 not a big fan.
  Overall  At the time of this review no multiplayer has been tried so the mechanics of it are sort 
 of a mystery to me. The single player though is worth the price alone, especially if you're a big 
 FPS fan. Still people who truly hate the battlefield open world style of FPS should stay away from 
 this one. After a few maps you'll realize the game is pretty much the same thing over and over, 
 luckily mass destruction and fire fights never seem to get old. The large levels later on can become 
 a burden though especially if you become hooked on finding as much gold as possible. Past that 
 while the idea is you can complete objectives however you like, you can so long as the way you 
 like involves explosions. The game is straight forward full throttle gun battle, no stealth or 
 even really tactics. It's isn't hard to see why this game is getting mixed reviews, for the standard 
 FPS especially multiplayer this game is gold, Plenty of fun. But if you're looking for a FPS like 
 CoD, FEAR or Half Life this isn't even close. Either way though the serious gamer or the FPS fan 
 should put this on their must have list. Everyone else should try it before they buy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Battlefield game to come out since Battlefield 2 on PC and this is the best 
 one yet. Why? It pushes the series and possibly the genre into a new direction of realism with 
 its destructability. This game has a first for the series: a GOOD single player. 
  
  Single player is taken a bit differently than many other FPS's because it is not super serious. 
 It has a more kicked-back feeling which is great because I found myself feeling stressed with the 
 campaign modes of other FPS like Call of Duty 4. The humor keeps it in this mood all the while.
 
  
  Multiplayer is Battlefield multiplayer for sure, but with a new game mode to keep things fresh. 
 A few weeks before release I was worried that Gold Rush would be bad, but rest assured, it's been 
 done well. Work your way towards new unlocks, a higher ranking, and some achievements. That should 
 take up your summer.
  
  Graphics are great, especially considering the destructable environments. The framerate holds up 
 under a lot of things going on and the only lag you'll encounter will be online due to connection. 
 Even then you won't encounter this issue much. The sound is also very good. Occasionally, however, 
 you will encounter a glitch in it where the gun on a tank suddenly sounds different due to environment 
 but doesn't feel all that well implemented if it was intentional.
  
  So what you've got is a good shooter that takes itself lightly, adds to the genre and the series, 
 and will keep you busy for a long while. The perfect summer game in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I will say I wasn't really hyping bad company at all. It looked ok to me, but I wasn't really interested, 
 but thats all changed now. This has to be the best FPS game of the year so far (key words-so far) . 
 The game puts you in the shoes of Preston Marlow, a army soldier who did something (your never 
 told what) that puts him in B-Company, the unit where the army sends all there trouble makers. 
 The men in Preston's unit, Sweetwater Haggard, and Redford are very interesting characters and 
 are pretty funny too. Sweetwater and Haggard will say some pretty funny things throughout the single 
 player game, and it adds a great feeling into the game that normally you don't see in FPS games. 
 Gameplay wise this is what makes Bad Company so good. Its the destructible enviorments that make 
 this game so much fun to play. Wanna get to a enemy hiding behind a wall of a house, just blow 
 it up. It never really gets old, and is a lot of fun to do. The graphics in this game are pretty 
 good to, and are great to watch when things blow up. The sound of this game is just amazing. Unless 
 you actually fought in a war, you've probably never heard a battlefield like this. It gets everything 
 down perfectly, from the explosions to the simple act of firing a gun. Everything just sounds right 
 and it feels right too. In the multiplayer side of the game, this is the best thing since cod4. 
 Battlefields are huge, and theres a ton of ways to get to your objective. Speaking of objective 
 the mode of play here is goldrush, which is like a attack of defend game. While it would have been 
 cool to seen the conquest mode that has defined other Battlefield games in the past, goldrush is 
 still fun enough to hold your interest until EA releases it in a update. Now while this game is 
 a lot of fun there are a couple things wrong with it. In the single player it really feels like 
 your the only one ever doing anything on the battlefield. Your squadmates really just are there, 
 and will hardly ever kill anyone. The enemy AI isn't very good either. There only tough because 
 weapons to a ton of damage, but a lot of times when your in front of them they'll just stand there 
 and look at you. Its health system is also a little wierd, but it gets the job done. Instead of 
 it being like cod4 or halo you get something called the auto injector, which instantly brings your 
 health back to 100. While its nice you'll end up leaning on it more than you would like, and there 
 are times that after you just used it your health will be taken all the way back to where it just 
 was, and you have to use it again. Its a little annoying, but its not that bad. The last thing 
 is that this game would have been perfect for a co-op campaign, but sadly theres none at all. Its 
 a shame since this probably would have helped since your AI buddys don't really do anything your 
 friends could just help. In the buy or rent part if you have xbox live this is probably a buy for 
 you since the multiplayer is a lot of fun. If you don't have live or don't really care for FPS 
 multiplayer games your probably just wanna rent this one, but don't skip it. The destructible enviorments 
 need to be played by anyone who likes shooter games. In closing Bad Company is a nice surprise 
 for a pretty gameless summer. Don't let the list of bad things stop you form playing this game. 
 Its a lot of fun to play, and being able to make your own doors in walls just doesn't get old. 
 Shooter fans check this one out.
  
  Good
  Funny game and great characters
  Fun to blow things up
  Destructible enviorments Bad
  Health system a little wierd
  Friendly 
 AI doesn't really do anything
  Enemy AI needs to go back to basic training
  No Co-op 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt bad neccesarily but its far from good. the problem with this game and it is difficult 
 to describe so stay with me its just not sharp. it lacks polish. it needed to be tightined up. 
 When you are shooting someone whether online or offline its just not sharp. the aiming seems to 
 be off just a hair but it makes all the difference. COD 4 has a the best shooting mechanic out 
 there (you could argue for rainbow six) . this game is not COD by far. When shooting in COD you 
 understand how the bullets travel, how far they go and pretty much what your htting and where your 
 hitting. This is not the case in Bad company. also you cannot lay completly prone, the sniping 
 is too easy, if you thought the noob tube was a problem in COD wait till you see this game its 
 out of control. There are not enough online game modes or vehicles the people who spawn first will 
 get the vehicles, there is absolutely no team startegy. people dont even talk barely at all. its 
 just not sharp enough its not polished enough to compete with COD4. i bought this game because 
 COD has been getting old but this game makes me realize how much better COD is. This game is for 
 the mindless player, the guy who just wants to run around and pray and spray and not think too 
 much. the truly skiled players and those who take FPS seriously will hate this game as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I don't get it. I've played through 2 chapters and am still waiting for this game to live up to 
 everyone's great reviews. I'm trading this game in today.
  
  It may seem I'm taking the contrarian route, but i am so angry about the hype surrounding this 
 game i can't stand it. This game is below average.
  
  If you played Just Cause, you will see alot of similarities in this game as far as the graphics 
 and the "feel" of the game.
  
  Graphics -- Identical to "Just Cause" graphics. 
  As a matter of fact, this game is "Just Cause" with a different war background.
  The vehicles 
 drive from a very far distance and don't look good at all, it feels like I'm playing on XBOX 1 
 .
  You never see your enemy, but they surely see you. Bullets come in from all over but you don't 
 see from where or from who.
  You die, you pick up where you left off, you die, you pick up where you left off, over and over.
 
  
  I am so mad I paid money for this that I wanted to write this. 
  
  I'm done. 
  
  All I have to say is, this game is not good at all. alot of people give low scores to piss people 
 off but this ain't it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay, after playing the beta, I thought Bad Company was average, but that was it. Although it was 
 just a beta, it still could've given us more. I thought Battlefield 2 was a cool game, that had 
 great moments online. Single player was just objective based as two fractions but it still got 
 you hooked. Now, Dice as left the norm to give us an actual story to play. But the story itself 
 is not all that interesting. Sure you have Sweetwater who is sort of the nerd of the group who 
 talks about some of the most random stuff. Truckasaurus Rex anyone? The you have Haggard, who just 
 likes to see things go boom! Then throw in Sarge, who is just a plain character. Nothing likable 
 or different about him.
  
  Now to the online, the meat-and-potatoes of any Battlefield game. Now that the final version is 
 out did they fix any of the problems? Well yes and no. The two main gripes I have that they didn't 
 fix are the lag and the hit detection. Every match that I have been in has had lag that slowed 
 the game down to a crawl at least twice per match. Now I can play CoD4, Rainbow Six Vegas 2, and 
 Frontlines, to name a few, with ZERO lag. Get with the program EA! But to counter that when the 
 game is running smooth as silk, the hit detection rears its ugly head. One example of this is when 
 I was playing on the desert level. One of my teammates told me the location of a sniper on one 
 of the islands in the water. I spotted him and took aim. He was crouching down shooting at my other 
 teammates, so he was distracted. I lined up the shot with my sniper rifle directly to his head 
 and shot. Nothing. No damage blip, no concerned player I shot at. I shot again, and again nothing. 
 Finally on the fifth shot. He went down. What the hell? And can you tell me how I was emptying 
 my M14 clip into an enemy about 40 yards away, yet he pops me in the head with two shots from is 
 pistol. The system needs improvement. and having to wait around 10-15 seconds to respawn into the 
 game after dying is harsh.
  
  Now onto the main selling point of the game, the destructibility. Honestly it was awesome for a 
 few minutes, then it became just eye candy because most enemies and players are outside, rendering 
 itself practically useless. On top of that, The way you destroy a side or roof of a building or 
 fence is preset. Whats more is that a direct shot from a tank will only take out the first wall 
 if there are more behind them. I can tell you this: the force that a tank drives the shell will 
 go through more than one wall. And speaking of walls, with all the high powered weapons you can't 
 even shoot through walls. Take out the preset destructibility of buildings, and you have a watered 
 down Battlefield 2. I haven't seen a parachute yet and without the ability to go prone anymore, 
 sniper shots are more difficult to pull off. 
  
  With CoD4 still doing very well along with being superior in almost every way online, along with 
 R6: Vegas 2 and Frontlines, and Battlefield turns out to be just another average shooter with a 
 little eye candy of the destruction that doesn't even do too much to save itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bostondunn182
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  reasons to love this game
  1. realism. the ability to blow apart buildings and kill enemies in 5 hits or less is just awsome.
 
  
  2. weapons & gadgets. the weapons look real and reload like in real life and they vary from a 9mm 
 beretta to a LAW rocket launcher and gadgets from a missle guide to a health injector to a power 
 drill that can fix anything and kill enemies
  
  3. free weapon. if you achive the highest rank in the demo you get a free weapon in the regular 
 game.
  
  4. vehicles & turrets. the turrets range from a standard .50 cal to a missle bipod to a flak cannon. 
 the vehicles range from a simple dune buggy to a M1A2 Abrams tank.
  
  5. ranking system. easy to rank up get kills and assists
  
  6. graphics. beautiful great frame 
 rate the guns and tanks look like their real life counter parts and the soldier models look great
 
  
  7. overall great game buy it it will make a fine addition to your game collection.
  
  reasons to not like this game
  
  1. hard at times sometimes can be very hard to kill an enemy 
 in multiplayer
  
  2. explosives have weak splash damage (ex grenades)
  
  3. hard to blow up tanks 2-3 for back 3-5 for side 5-7 for front for a light tank cut it in half.
 
  
  4. too easy to blow up cars one rocket anywhere near it will do the trick but whose complaning:)
 
  
  5. easy for defenders in multiplayer to win unless you have bad teammates: P
  
  6. team killing is always on : (
  
  conclusion
  overall it is a superb game it defines the 
 term realism and is extreamly fun you are gonna want this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2av3n
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Has the editor has been living in a hole his whole life and never seen film grain used for cinematic 
 effect?
  
  For example, Mass Effect uses the exact same film grain (but it can be toggled, however I kept 
 it on because it really makes the environment feel authentic) .
  
  The Film Grain effect is clearly part of artistic direction, and the fact that the editor considered 
 that to be something negative, is really something that's going to make me not care about GameSpot 
 reviews in the future. The setting of this game is debatable, along with the period in time. The 
 oldies music being blasted out by APC's and tanks helps to inspire a jovial yet totally chaotic 
 and destructive environment, that could've either been taking place in the not too distant past 
 or the present day. Either way, film grain is part of the camera, not the textures themselves. 
 So to have an editor say that the textures are grainy... I don't even have words to explain how 
 something like that could happen.
  
  Completely ignorant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ticklethis275
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Single Player -- Single player on BC starts you out as a new guy in BC and you really dont fit in. 
 You were sent to BC because some inncedent with a helicopter. All of you BC fellow members were 
 also on the wrong side of the tracks so they're sent here. You play through many levels (Dont wont 
 to spoil anything) . Here are my things that are good and bad
  
  Good- Great voice over, Good Amount of Vehicle warfare, Good AI, Awesome maps, Long Missions.
 
  
  The Bad- Not a lot of ammo, Knifeing becomes almost neccesary, Not-so-good things that damage you 
 (you hit a light-pole and you lose 10 health in a jeep, Way to many bullets to take down ennimies 
 but not enough bullets to take down tanks (two shots with a low-end RPG)
  
  Multi-Player -- Multi-player is awesome (but EA has had the online down some times) and addictive. 
 You start at level 0 with guns that you can level with (unlike some games where it is easier to 
 go from 30 to 40 and harder to go to 0 to 10 because guns at that level suck) Here are my good 
 and bad things of Multi-player
  
  Good- Great maps, awesome add-ons (Autohealer, Mortour Strike) Good ammount of vehicles, good differsity 
 in everything.
  
  The bad- Bad mic use, only one type of game, not a lot of differsity in wich map you get, NO PARACHUTE 
 EVER (its a joke the Darwin Awards Look it up) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxes
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  While I can somewhat understand Gamespot's 8.5 rating for this game, I cannot understand the people 
 who hate this game. The single player campaign is not only fun, but offers a ton of options in 
 how you tackle each section. Along with the collectibles, this provides for great replayability 
 (plus I'd like to see the amusing cutscenes again) .
  It's in multiplayer, though, where the game really shines. Most of the maps are huge, providing 
 for that great tug-of-war action that we saw in previous games like BF 2142. I'm not sure where 
 claims of lag keep coming up; I have experienced none so far (except in the demo) , so I'm assuming 
 it may be local problems. And one more thing - the sound in this game is absolutely outstanding! 
 If you have a surround sound system, turn it up and be amazed! From the cacophony of cutting loose 
 with an SMG inside a house to the crack of your sniper rifle echoing up the valley, you will be 
 constantly wowed by the real-time effects. Just be sure to choose the appropriate settings in the 
 sound menu - it does make a difference. To sum it up, definitely a 9 in my book, and a game I'll 
 still be enjoying months from now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator702
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  I dont understand Gamespots 8.5 rating. Especially when in the whole "Good, Bad" thing.. they dont 
 have much to say for the "Bad" except conquest mode doesnt come at launch, and graphics appear 
 grainy.. but its not really grainy.. but i know what its talkin about. All in all i think thats intentional. 
 Anyways.. this game rocks. Single player campaign is a blast.. even though war is a serious issue.. its 
 fun to play through a war where the soldiers dont take anything seriously. Multiplayer is where 
 it shines, there is so much to do and so many ways to do it. I'm glad I bought this game... I wasn't 
 so sure even with the Demo and myself waiting anxiously for Unreal Tournament 3. If you like FPS' 
 and you like blowing things up and you like having fun in multiplayer.. this game is for sure a 
 buy and with that being said... I wont understand the people that arent enjoying this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmfizz
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I should have trusted my first thoughts about the demo. I am not new to the Battlefield series. 
 I play on a 52" HD LCD TV with a monster HDMI hookup with a Phillips surround sound system and 
 run online with a 8MB cable connection.
  
  The game has very poor graphics for being on the 360. Everything is grainy and the character models 
 are not very detailed. The gun models are even bland, heck even Soldier of Fortune has nice looking 
 guns. 
  
  As for the single player do not waste your time. The enemy AI is just there for target practice 
 and does not put up much of a fight even on the hard difficulty. The story is silly and did not 
 work well for the movie "Three Kings" so I do not know why they would think it would be good in 
 a game. 
  
  The multiplayer is just as bad. The game mode is a really horrible take on Search and Destroy. 
 There are only 8 maps and they are all basically the same. They are made up of several 2 story 
 houses/buildings and have a lot of rough terrain. You are stuck in a squad of just a few players 
 and if they do not have their headsets on your out of luck. You can only communicate with your 
 squad of four. The controls feel very sloppy and awkward . It seems that everyone is hard to kill 
 even for a Battlefield game. For example I shot someone twice in the chest with a .50 caliber rifle 
 and he lived. I shot someone with 60 rounds from a light machine gun and he lived. I stabbed someone 
 in the back twice standing right behind him and he lived. I know I cannot be lagging in every match 
 I am in. So what's the deal? Also they took away the parachute. Why would they do that? That was 
 one of the few things that made Battlefield a different experience than other FPS.
  
  With games like COD4, HALO 3, and RBSV2 out there is no need in wasting your $60 on this game. 
 Rent it if you want but I would just DL the demo and see what you think first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArticRecon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for several aspects
  
  Graphics- Gamespots review gave a demerit for "grainy" textures.. I personally don't feel that 
 this is an issue, looks great in HD on a large TV, the graphics fit the feel of the game
  
  Multiplayer- This game is just flat the most fun I've had on Live. The sheer rush of attacking 
 a fortified position and being able to obliterate with an artillery shell, (and it shows the destruction!! 
 awesome!) There is just an atmosphere of all hell breaking lose with the new destrucbile enviroment. 
 Sound- This game has absolutely nailed it on this one. The sound of bullets wizzing is right up 
 there with Saving Private Ryan. It has the most realistic gunfire sound I've heard in a game. The 
 effect of an echo after a round is fired is dead on. Most games do not use this realistic effect. 
 Make sure to set up your sound for either Hi-Fi or cinema based on your system. My 5.1 has been 
 driving my wife nuts all day, :) - Game engine- The new engine is amazing. The destructible enviorments 
 does away with the "camper" issue in multiplayer. Finally you can launch a shell at that **** and 
 ruin his day :) The lighting is well done and the framerate doesnt drop even in hectic matches 
 running with a full 24 player load.
  
  Final thought- I have a feeling Halo 3, CoD 4, and Team Fortress 2 will be a little jealous as 
 this game will be eating up a lot more Live time now! :-)
  
  If your a Live FPS player, you need to go buy this game now! Bring on the Battle!!! Gamer tag- 
 CPTBrogan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikee3
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Lets get right to the point. This game is awesome.
  
  Im not going to talk about singleplayer because quite frankly its mediocre and is NOT the reason 
 you should buy this game. Multiplayer is where its at.
  
  Now back on topic: The Multiplayer. Bad Company's MP is very deep, taking everything that was good 
 from battlefield 2, and almost none of the bad. The maps are well designed in terms of layout; 
 all of the areas in the map have purpose, even if you cant see one at first. Big open feild between 
 your base and enemy base? Actually a noob trap - anyone who tries to run through the seemingly 
 quick shortcut to the enemy base will be picked off by the numerous snipers hiding in the bush 
 quite promptly. However, some of the maps have some minor issues: some are too dark, some too gloomy, 
 but these are minor annoyances.
  
  The multiplayer also has a deep ranking system, including an unlock system similar to BF 2142. 
 You can also see your stats and other peoples statsin great detail, as well as your collection 
 of dog tags (essentially names of people you knifed and how many times you knifed them.)
  
  Each class is well balanced and fun, vehicles are also well balanced, even the tanks are not the 
 monsters of terror they were in BF2. Weapons are well animated and sound amazing. Speaking of sound, 
 if you have a surround sound system, this is reason enough to buy this game.
  
  A few minor annoyances include black bars on top and bottom of the screen if your playing on a 
 4:3 tv. And also a film grain effect similar to mass effect which cannot be turned off. These annoyances 
 are small compared to the awesomeness of this game, and they should be fixed in the upcoming patches.
 
  
  With the conquest mode soon to be released as a free DLC, this game is hands down the best multiplayer 
 shooter for the 360 since COD4.
  
  ===========
  Graphics - 4/5 [Film grain effect and minor blooming issues]
  Sound 5/5 - [Best sound design 
 ive ever seen in a console game]
  Gameplay 5/5 - [Well balanced and deep, fun multiplayer]
  Replay 5/5 - [Deep Multiplayer will have you interested for a long time]
  =========== 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKorey
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I have not played the story-line yet, but i've been ranking my level on the multiplayer gameplay, 
 and it is AWESOME! The EA servers are kind of disappointing, but EA is embarassing in general. 
 But they did good on BF: Bad Company! I recommend this game to all of Call of Duty/Rainbow Six/Frontline 
 players! Check this game out! It's badass!! It's strategic, IMO. And very organized! Whenever you 
 stab someone, you collect their dog tags! But the levels are just right, and very fun with friends. 
 If you are looking for a new recent shooter to pick up, this is definitely a recommendation without 
 a doubt. I played Call of Duty for a long long time, and I am pretty good, but this is a new challenge, 
 and the online play is beyond badass. I think everyone should at least give it a chance!! Message 
 me up for anything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charles102938
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. Good game play, lots of vehicles ,and lots lots of weapons. good destruction 
 and cool tanks. good explosions good graphics and other thing. Must buy if like shooting games. 
 Not a real hard game and your teammates really help out some and shoot pretty good. so many people 
 to kill and funny jokes by sweet water and the other guy. Good control over vehicles and easy to 
 get use to. Buy as soon as possible the gold edition is the best. Good online play too and you 
 can even put holes in the ground. Blow any building up, any tree can be took down with explosives 
 and lots of turrets to use. It is like it is suppose to be and anyone with 360 should buy it. You 
 can even drive a golf cart through war zone with tanks around and fix it as many times as you want 
 to. I like it a lot and that's why i gave it a 9.5. Because i think it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osumane2012
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Of course, another Battlefield game. Why should I waist my money on a game that has been not that 
 great these recent years. Well let me tell you something, Battlefield: Bad Company is ultimatley 
 one of the best shooters I have ever played. The instense singleplayer and the epic multi-player, 
 you cant leave this hanging.
  
  The single-player in Battlefield: Bad Company is pretty cool this time around. You play as Private 
 Marlo and you join Bad Company, a Company mad up of misfits. Theres Pvt Sweweter, Pvt Haggard, 
 and Sgt. Redford or "Sarge". The whole campaingne is about finding gold and blowing up objectives 
 along the way. You can find colectibles too.
  
  The multiplayer experience is something no one can miss. Battlefield has so many things it will 
 keep you busy for months. There's Dog Tags, Awards, Ranks, Unlocks, etc. Online has up to 24 player 
 support and has a new game mode called "Gold Rush". One team is attacking and the other is defending. 
 The attackers go to the defenders base and try to blow up the gold crates. If they exceed, it goes 
 to another base and they demolish that one as well. Theres a total of at least 5 bases in each 
 map. The defenders must defend their gold and if they elimiante all the attackers lives they win. 
 I think its awsome and a very clever game mode to play. When you spawn you pick one of the 5 classes; 
 Assault, Demolition, Recon, Speacialist, and Support. Battefield has added 25 ranks and about 50 
 Awards for you to unlock. When you rank up (by earning XP in matches) you unlock "unlock credits" 
 witch alllow to unlock new weapons and gadetes for your classes.
  
  Battefield is not great. The story could of have supportted co-op, it would of been a lot funner. 
 The campaign is not that long and not that much deatail. Its just an indroduction in to the multiplayer. 
 If you dont have LIVE I wouldn't recommend this game unless you want it for the single-player experience.
 
  But overall Battefield: Bad Comapny is a great game and one that should be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Buy this game for the Multiplayer action. It is great fun. I keep trying to compare with COD but 
 it really does not work. I could give you a clinical comparison that would put COD ahead in most 
 of the techical aspects of FPS online multiplayer war gaming. Yet I keep going back to how much 
 fun this game is. Obviously it does not have all the slick game modes that COD has. Graphically 
 it cannot compare to COD... but, in the end, they are very different games. The Bad Company battlefeilds 
 are huge in comparison and one has access to tanks, jeeps, dune buggy's etc. The destructable enviromments 
 give the game a real visceral, wild and at times disorenting like real combat. The battle action 
 is deafening and quite exciting. When the enemy attacks your base and you are defending the attack 
 is fierce to say the least. The objectives are pretty straightforward and it is not as sophisticated 
 as COD. It is a great ride though. The only reason I would rate COD ahead of it is the general 
 weakness of the single player campaign. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyleftykid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  okay gamespot, what are you on? you have to be joking when you give this game a 8.5. this is a 
 whole lot better than an 8.5. What did Gamespot not like about Battlefield: Bad Company to give 
 it an 8.5?
  
  1. The enemies didnt complete basic training. okay, maybe you should play on a harder level than 
 easy. DUHHHH!!!!!
  
  2. Textures look grainy. WOW. Look EA Games, you made this game wicked realistic and Gamespot doesnt 
 like that. So if you could make all flat blown up surfaces less grainy, that would be great (lots 
 of sarcasim) .
  
  WOW. grainy. you give this game an 8.5 because the surfaces of a battlefield are grainy.
  
 
  WOW. You give this game an 8.5 because the enemies are bad on the EASY LEVEL. hmmmmm. Easy=bad???? 
 No duh. thats why the level of difficulty is called easy. if i want a bloody enemy that will snipe 
 my head off from across the map, ill go to the HARDER DIFFICULTY.
  
  Seriously, this EA Games some props here. They just pumped out an unbelievable shooter.
  
  
 Sure it lacks some blood and gore that we would all like, but comeon. Im pretty sure you can't 
 blow up a wall in Halo 3 or in COD4 (or any other good shooter game out at the moment)
  
  Pat yourself on the back EA games, you just made an unbelievable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XcoN_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, there are a lot of absolutely stunning shooters out there, but this one, it just takes 
 the price.
  
  I've never had such fun during a game, and that's something that's hard too beat. The game has 
 it's glitches, and such of course, but far from game-breaking things. Some enemies might just stand 
 there in the middle of the war just waiting too be shoot, which is no challenge, but he would been 
 killed anyway so. :)
  
  Anyway, the game is tons of fun, and if you love blowing things up and enjoys a story-line well 
 done and full om humour, this is the game for you.
  
  Go and buy it now, and i mean it. This is a game you can't afford too miss out. Probably the best 
 one in the serie of Battlefield, even though Battlefield 2 comes awfully close. But this one just 
 have that feeling you know : This is just amazing.
  
  So go and buy it now, and enjoy another masterpiece from DICE and Electronic Arts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjcrespin
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Was that a review or a paid advertisement? The Gamespot review was worthless. I couldnt wait for 
 the newest console version of BF series but am unimpressed with the game. I think the audio is 
 very bad (sounds like guns shoot air) and the multi player game type gets old fast. Very disappointed. 
 I prefer the old school capture the flag mode. Weapons dont react well and are erradic as far as 
 accuracy. Canned text is awkward and unhelpful. I love the graphics, looks like film grain and 
 I love the attention to detail. Call of Duty is still the best multi player game available followed 
 by Frontlines which has a much better multi player mode the BF: BC. Its obvious the creators were 
 trying to make a good product but fell short by not polishing it up before release. The weapon 
 unlock system isn't as additive as previous versions after you get the basic auxiliary weapons 
 due to the unimpressive response they provide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most fun, addictive games yet. The multiplayer is very addictive, due to 
 the game's reward system. There are plenty of goals for you to reach, and plenty of weapons and 
 weapon systems that can be unlocked with points obtained by ranking up. Personaly, I have been 
 searching for a great FPS with a destructable battlefield, and now I found it. 
  There are two game modes for multiplayer (one, conquest, will be released in the first patch) , 
 Gold Rush and Conquest. Gold Rush is an attack and defend game, very team oriented. Conquest will 
 be like orginal Battlefield games, a team deathmatch with tickets. Each time a player on a team 
 is killed, their team's tickets are reduced by one. There are also bases for teams to capture and 
 hold, and if your team has the majority of bases, the enemies' team tickets will slowly fall. When 
 the ticket counter reaches 0, the opposing team wins.
  The one problem with this game is that it is a little bugged, but what do you expect? It was just 
 released. Hopefully, the first patch will adress the problems.
  All in all, worth every penny. Having a bunch of freinds own the game can be really fun, so try 
 to get 'em to buy it with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was not sure if I was going to buy this game or not. I read some reviews, I was like hey, 
 i bought almost every single battlefield game and enjoyed it most of them.
  
  I am glad I bought it, there are a lot of amazing and holy **** moments on this game. The sound 
 effects are just simply amazing, probably the best I have herd in a game in a while. Bullets zooming 
 by, bombs going off, to the health going down to 10.
  
  The game's story is pretty well done, specially for a battlefield game. It gets interesting after 
 a while and your squad is pretty funny. So having some humor in the game makes it better :) I would 
 also say, the graphics are pretty well done as well
  
  I have not played multiplayer yet.
  I want to beat the single player first. From what I know 
 so far though, this game is AMAZING.
  
  Must buy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB_justice7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a fantastic game. It does not try to be too serious; and brings some 
 new game play elements to the table not seen since Red Faction.
  
  The heart and soul of the Battlefield franchise has always been its online multiplayer. Gone are 
 the days of 64 player massive battles of random deaths, and in are the days of 24 player objective 
 based warfare. With only two objectives at a time in the online mode "GoldRush", it really focuses 
 the battle to a confined area.
  
  The destructible environments add a whole new layer to the gameplay. In a tank and the enemy ran 
 inside so you can't hit him? Blast through the wall, and he will have nowhere to hide. It is also 
 great for creating your own entrances, and exits. Blow away a sniper's cover, and force him to 
 relocate. The landscape is always changing and a place that was safe, may no longer be.
  
  The single player campaign is packed with hilarious dialogue and intense action. Missing is the 
 ability to play co op, and sometimes the AI doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Your squadmates 
 never die; and you respawn rather quickly to your last save point. The enemies you killed remain 
 dead so it keeps the game at a fairly simple affair.
  
  Online has unlocks similar to that of Call of Duty 4. The more you play, the more weapons you can 
 unlock. While they aren't more powerful than one another, they do add to the dynamic of the already 
 built classes.
  
  Graphically this game looks pretty good. It is not bleeding edge, but they do hold up on their 
 own and you will find yourself impressed at times.
  
  The audio in this game is second to none, the dynamic range of the audio signal is incredible. 
 If you're playing this on a surround sound system you're in for a major treat.
  
  This game differs from Call of Duty 4 in a few ways: Destructible environments and Vehicles (Land/Sea 
 and Air)
  
  I highly recommend this game to any oldschool Battlefield fans; and people new to Battlefield.
 
  
  Conquest mode will be coming as promised in a free update in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield series have always been a blast with me, especially the first one, because we use 
 to get a group of 6 or 8 guys online and just blast the hell out of each other. I still can't remember 
 a time that I had such fun, but that was a long time ago, and a lot have changed. 
  Battlefield: Bad Company is a sort of odd twist on what use to be a straight online shooter, now 
 the game has a single player option, and a pretty good one at that. It's not just thrown in because 
 they needed to. They really put some thought to it.
  You play Private Preston one of four men that decided that fighting for money is more important 
 then fighting for your country. 
  The game play is great, you can pretty much jump right in and start playing, because the controls 
 are pretty much like any shooter on a console, so if you played COD4 then you should be familiar 
 enough to get started without much fuss.
  The graphics are very well done but not revolutionary or anything, but the sound is about as good 
 as it get and maybe even better then COD4, especially if you are running a surround sound system. 
 It's that good!
  A few odd things about the game do disappointed me, first and by far the most important, is that, 
 though you are one a four, your teammates really don't do much but give a bit of comic relief, 
 and some backup fire. After your orders are giving, you make most of the decisions and they follow 
 you without my complaint. Whish is odd since there is a sergeant in the group he pretty much follow 
 whatever you do. Also along with that, since you're not in charge there isn't any way of giving 
 orders to your crew, not that they would listen any way, but it would be nice to be able to give 
 basic orders.
  The other little thing that bother me is that, like in a lot of shooters, I feel like I'm 4 foot 
 tall, even when I stand next to the other guys I feel really short and close to the ground. I know 
 it's not a big deal but I'm 6'2" and I guess I noticed things like that. 
  The one other little thing is, when you die and re-spawn, your whole group re-spawn with you, instead 
 of staying in place fighting. So you have to run all the way back to get back into the fight. That 
 just seems odd for some reason.
  The game is a blast to play, I haven't tried the multiplayer yet, but if it's anything like Battlefield 
 1 &2 it will be a blast. This game is a lot of fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamfer3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  COD 4 was revolutionary. But BF: BC is damn fun to play. Destructive environments and a quirky dialogue 
 of your campaign comrades add balance to a fast-paced, on-your toe gameplay. Looks like EA is pulling 
 it's act together.
  
  The Good:
  -The frostbite engine captures the destruction of cover via tank, grenades etc.
  -Quirky dialogue 
 is amusing and entertaining in the heat of battle
  -VEHICLES! What else can i say?
  -Multiplayer is reminiscint of the COD4 level-up system, very addicting
  
  The Bad:
  -Controls 
 are pretty unwelcoming, it takes two buttons to throw a grenade for example
  -The beloved conquest multiplayer mode isn't available
  -Health system makes the campaign a breeze
 
  
  Overall:
  BF: BC isn't in anyway, a perfect game, but's it's still a fun game on it's own. With a good multiplaer 
 offering and "fleshy" campaign, you'll be destroying buildings with Sweet-water, Redford and Haggard 
 for months to come (until farcry 2 and resistance 2 come out) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  I just picked this up about 6 hours ago and I must say I am having a large amount of fun with the 
 campaign and the multiplayer (MP) . The campaign is previewed a little in the demo and its really 
 well done so far, the characters are a little wacky even so I am hooked into the single player 
 campaign by the sheer beauty of the graphics and the story keeps me awake which is more than I 
 can say for some shooters out there. The mulitplayer is very good with rankings and unlockables. 
 It has the same great graphics as the single player even the well done desctructable environments 
 are there in multiplayer. The MP has only one mode but there is a conquest mode on the way for 
 free via an update. I know this because the ingame messageing system advises players that the mode 
 is on the way after launch, so expect the conquest mode to be available anytime now. So let me 
 wrap this up with a recap. The games graphics are phenomenal the destructable environments and 
 grainy look really make this game come alive. The sound is the best out there right now. No game 
 comes close to this game currently as far as sound goes. The story has legs and hopefully gets 
 better as it goes. The fun factor is there with the MP which only has one mode but its a mode that 
 is very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimbermen97
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  After playing for just one single player level, I find that I am struggling not to go back to COD 
 4. 
  
  Gameplay:
  First of all the so call "team" doesn't exist! The other three guys are there just to enjoy the 
 show. They don't shoot anything and don't draw fire. Enemies seem to be able to hit me from miles 
 away and manage to do damage just as mush as close quarter fire-fight. I know they can be good 
 marksman with accurate sniper rifle but I am talking about fully automatic assault rifle hit. Also 
 the "blowing up the wall" bit is a little off. You can blow a hole on the wall in front of you 
 and the enemy just behind the wall can be perfectly out of harms way. I think the damage detection 
 code is a bit quirky for the enemy AI.
  
  Graphic:
  The graphic is grainy and seems to have a certain "blur" to it. I have played quite a few titles 
 of war type shooting game, and don't have this problem with others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  the whole game is about gold; gameplay is under control of you; everything is made for you; the graphic 
 is high and the guns are fun; the maps are so wide open and the viechles are so many;
  they are mentioned befor; let us talk about the new things;
  i do not think that battlefield series 
 show such a great single player mode; everythings are in-place and the physics is from future; you 
 can do everything you want from head to feet; kill enemy with trees, take down a roof to enemy's 
 head, shoot down a chopper to enemy's camp, shoot the grenades on the air to vanish the enemy; they 
 are can preform in -time and easy; the maps are so huge and make you to change your game's way second 
 by second; the enemy can make you shoot them easy but some of them; the others are so good; the AI 
 is so good in most of the game; but the chopper and the snipers are so celever, so; they can teach 
 you some lessons in war; but the normal soldiors show abnormal thing sometimes; i like them all but 
 i like the guns more; every things are so good and make you to play and play and play;
  so we play and play and play more and more and more; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadsk8r24
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  This game shows what xbox 360 can do. It haves perfect lighting. Good graphics. And an amazing 
 gameplay.
  This games online is awesome. It's really fun. The games takes on a twists to classic FPS, it adds 
 a new type a gameplay. Instead of Deathmatch or Teamdeathmatch. They have Gold Rush which you are 
 either the attacker or defender and if your the defender you defend the gold crates at all costs 
 and if your the attacker you try to open the gold crates by planting bombs or simply shooting it 
 with a tank till it opens. The choice is up to you.
  
  The singleplayer is the best part of the game. It has an open sandbox type of gameplay the experience 
 you had might be different to the experience your friend had.
  
  The vehicles chosen are great. The ranking system is great. Now when you level up you can spend 
 credits on some new weapons to unlock.
  
  The thing that makes this game awesome overall is that you can blow up things. Like say a sniper 
 is hiding behind a window. You can use your grenade launcher to uncover him. You can throw grenades 
 at the ground it you will leave a crater, you can blow out walls, blow up everything except the 
 frames of building (their foundation)
  
  This game is a symbol of whats to come in gaming technology in the future. A must buy game of 2008. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toaman89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  In the latest installment of Battlefield series, DICE has made the use of some really kick-ass 
 destruction to further influence how we play first person shooters. Instead of having to hunt down 
 a single guy in a building, we can simply bring the building down around his ears. It is true what 
 you hear, no one is safe. At any point in this game you may be killed by any number of methods 
 weather it be a well place sniper round or an artillery shell. 
  
  A serious problem that recent shooters such as Quake Wars and Frontlines have faced is the natural 
 flow that you experience when you use you controller. Call of Duty 4 mastered this practice and 
 Bad Company has followed suit. While there is a bit of a change when it comes to vehicle control, 
 most shooter veterans will find it a quick adjustment.
  
  Bad Company also features, in my opinion, the absolute best in sound design in any game available. 
 It may actually take some people time to adjust to just how real it actually is. You actually hear 
 sniper rounds fly by your head, and explosions actually make you look away from the TV! Just don't 
 turn the volume up too loud. 
  
  The addition of a solid singleplayer was a wise move for DICE. It's a good way to warm up before 
 hauling of into a screaming multiplayer battle. While the story is not Ace Combat 5 or Final Fantasy 
 X, it's certainly noteworthy for a first try and the "giggle humor" is used very well. Online play 
 is at it's best, but I will agree with GameSpot when they say Conquest should have come out on 
 release. But with the addition of Gold Rush, we shouldn't be that hard pressed for entertainment 
 on multiplayer. 
  
  Graphically, Battlefield has never look better. The Frostbite engine has turned explosions into 
 something you'll go crazy over, especially once you have learned the finer uses of C4. The designers 
 have gone for the "cinematic" look and added a good deal, perhaps too much, of that grain to the 
 picture, but we'll overlook that while we are busy destroying a perfectly good house.
  
  When it comes down to it, Battlefield: Bad Company is sure to help those of you who have found 
 Call of Duty 4 a little stagnant find a new playground to burn down. "Tactical Destruction" is 
 something that will almost be a requirement in future games to come. Congrats and thanks to DICE 
 for putting together another well crafted game.
  
  -Luke
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlonac
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed RSV and the cover system, but boy is it nice to be able to get of the close-twitch 
 battle and snipe a little.
  
  This game lets you do that and more. Classes are balanced, but it would have been nice if you could 
 have some of the unlock items from the get go. The first few battles are tough without them. Once 
 you are able to get the Recon and Specialist classes flushed out, they really come into their own.
 
  
  Vehicles are fun, handy, and an important part of the gameplay. Stationary turrets and anti-air 
 emplacements even the turf. I still haven't figured out how to make the helicopter fly in a continuous 
 line with crashing, though.
  
  Actually did not spend too much time in single player, preferred the multi by far.
  
  The demo 
 was well done and offered a great chance to get a feel for the action. If you are not sure (the 
 last battle field for 360 wasn't that great) , download and give it a try. Sure beats renting it! 
 Besides, it has a great map and it gives you a chance to learn it well. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  In Battle Field Bad Company is awesome and the two guys that you can pick are funny and the other 
 two are really serious about the war. Really you can make charges and they can explode some towns 
 and cities. ( Just saying.) But it deos kinda get boring. And also the enemies are easy to kill 
 and conquest not aviable at launch. But the good news is that blowing stuff up is really fun and 
 also massive 24 player maps. The game is really a great shooter but not as good as Army of Two 
 and this game is the funniest game ever really. And people will might want to play this game for 
 a week or two and then it might not be as good as it was when they first gotten it. But hey you 
 can get some achieviements if you care about that. I really think that EA will create a sequal 
 to this game. This is why I rated it 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_x_BOZO_x_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company took me by surprise when I first played the story mode. With its unique 
 100% destructible environments and fun gameplay, it's a game that you should not pass up.
  
  The Gameplay in this game is amazingly fun and creative that keeps the game enjoyable and replayable. 
 The advertisements saying "100% destructible environments" are true, where anything from houses, 
 trees, bridges, and tanks can be blown to pieces with the right amount of explosives. You can also 
 drive a range of vehicles like a helicopter, boat, trucks, and tanks that help you get to your 
 objective or to just cause complete destruction. The sound quality in this game is also outstanding 
 and always sounds realistic whether you're running down trees, shooting, blowing up buildings, 
 and general in-game talking.
  
  The Story Mode is also put together very nicely. The story mode puts you into a "sandbox" environment, 
 where you can basically roam around freely in a limited area. This mode also has a lot of levels 
 that will keep you playing for quite a while. I am going to say that it's a little unrealistic 
 due to the fact that your squad always cracks jokes even though you are in the middle of a warzone 
 and could die at any second, but it also adds a bit of comical play which is always fun.
  
  Now to the multiplayer. The demo for this game did show lag on the multiplayer but now it looks 
 like it's fixed for the actual game. There is 24 player multiplayer with humongous maps that teams 
 can roam and hide in. Vehicles are also in multiplayer that help you get to the other side of the 
 huge map whether it's by truck, tank, or boat. There is also basic classes to choose from ranging 
 from assault, demolition, recon (sniper) , and more. Ranks are also in multiplayer mode that keep 
 the game replayable and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxter301
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have it yet, put it at the top of your list. BF: BC is a game that doesn't disappoint, 
 the single player is great from what I've seen so far and the multiplayer just flat out rocks. 
 Well I'm sure you guys have heard it already and I'm going to say it again, blowing stuff up rocks, 
 and it really sells the game. I'm sure that if you're a COD4 player you know how annoying a bunkered 
 down sniper in a building can be. Well that aside you don't need to put up with it anymore, BF: BC 
 offers a simple but really fun solution, you don't need to get a sniper rifle to kill him anymore, 
 you just need to get something that goes boom and make the sniper AND his hiding place blow up 
 with it. No more sniper and he sure as heck won't be going back with no more cover there. I've 
 heard some people I play XBL with complain that they think the 95% destroyable environments would 
 be a bad thing, well it can be and it can't be, depends on what side you're on. If you like camping 
 prepare to be exposed, if you hate campers just blow the whole hiding place up. It really is a 
 priceless experience when you find somebody in a building and just knock the wall in and kill them 
 while they have no idea what just happened. The game offers great classes (sniper, support, demolitions, 
 etc...) . Aside from classes the game also offers one kick butt thing that sets it apart from the 
 COD4 run and gun, vehicles. It's just awesome when you're driving a tank around blasting people 
 while they try and run away like ants under a magnifying glass. The multiplayer really encourages 
 teamwork via making a squad with your friends, when you make a squad you share points for doing 
 cooperative tasks (ex: a squadmate killing people in your vehicle gun while you drive) . Making 
 a squad also allows you to spawn AT your squadmate closest to the action, although sometimes it 
 will get mixed up a bit but that's not a bad thing when there's action everywhere you look. If 
 you're new to the Battlefield series don't expect to be disappointed. As far as I know we're not 
 going to have to pay for any extra content either. Just a word of warning though, once you play 
 BF: BC playing games that you can't make things go boom in just kinda sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I have to say after playing Bad Company for a few hours. Is going to be hard not to play a FPS 
 without the destructible environments. I think this is one of my favorite things about Bad Company 
 and the fact than you can go to different parts on a wipe map that are not restricted to run into 
 enemies you didn't know exist in that area. 
  
  I've had a blast playing the first couple of hours of Bad Company if you're a fan of First Person 
 Shooters you'll definitely would like playing this game. Especially if you've been playing Call 
 of Duty 4. There's some specific routines that will remind you of things you did in Call of Duty. 
 Which is not a bad thing. 
  
  The Story is not much to talk about If you've played the demo you'll know more or less what you're 
 going after. You're listed on a squad that doesn't have the best rep. The characters in your squad 
 are pretty funny. I'm just stood there to see what would come out of their mouth at times. 
  
  The graphics look really good especially when you're blowing up stuff all over the place. The 
 sound is just as good as you running and gunning similiar to the same sound affect from the Call 
 of Duty series. If you're a fan of FPS I would highly recommend to check this game out. Especially 
 since their aren't that many blockbuster games coming out any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I just picked this up about 6 hours ago and I must say I am having a large amount of fun with the 
 campaign and the multiplayer (MP) . The campaign is previewed a little in the demo and its really 
 well done so far, the characters are a little wacky even so I am hooked into the single player 
 campaign by the sheer beauty of the graphics and the story keeps me awake which is more than I 
 can say for some shooters out there. The mulitplayer is very good with rankings and unlockables. 
 It has the same great graphics as the single player even the well done desctructable environments 
 are there in multiplayer. The MP has only one mode but there is a conquest mode on the way for 
 free via an update. I know this because the ingame messageing system advises players that the mode 
 is on the way after launch, so expect the conquest mode to be available anytime now. So let me 
 wrap this up with a recap. The games graphics are phenomenal the destructable environments and 
 grainy look really make this game come alive. The sound is the best out there right now. No game 
 comes close to this game currently as far as sound goes. The story has legs and hopefully gets 
 better as it goes. The fun factor is there with the MP which only has one mode but its a mode that 
 is very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quilmonopoppy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Given that the last Battlefield game to come to consoles was Modern Combat, I was a little nervous 
 to find Bad Company would do the same. Though, when I discovered that it would also include destructible 
 environments, it seemed that this could be good. But I had my doubts as to whether or not blowing 
 up everything would suck up the developer's time and make them stray away from the gameplay itself. 
 I began to wonder if I was ready to dish out 60 dollars for a hyped up destructible playground. 
 So I was pleased when a demo was released on Xbox Live. My first reaction when I played it was 
 just WOW, it looks great. The grainy effect gives the game a kind of gritty feel that it's seen 
 in most shooters. Character animations have also received a huge upgrade. Men move smoothly from 
 cover to cover, and are very useful in a firefight. Environments seem fully fleshed out and natural. 
 Even though the game is linear, you do have several ways to arrive at your objective. Even the 
 way the ground deals with explosives impresses me. Whenever a grenade hits the ground, it will 
 make a shell hole that varies in size depending on the size of the round. This feature makes a 
 huge difference on the way multiplayer plays out. The combat mechanics play out nicely and have 
 some very intense moments. Building blowing up all around you and shells burrowing craters into 
 the ground all look beautiful and truly make you feel like a soldier. 
  But really, one of the most incredible features of the game is the sound. I have never played a 
 game that sounded so good. The explosion effect is very reminiscent of the one used on the beach 
 scene in Saving Private Ryan. Bullets wizzing past your head, tanks rolling over the landscape 
 and distant firefights all sound top notch. I recommend this game to anyone with a surround sound 
 system.
  The multiplayer takes all of these mechanics and lets you go insane with them. The new gameplay 
 mode has players defending and attacking sets of gold crates. When the first set it destroyed, 
 it opens up the one behind it, along with a new portion of the battlefield. Each battleground presents 
 a new landscape and a new challenge for each side. If the defender can keep the attackers at bay 
 at one position long enough, you can see the way the battlefield has taken damage. 
  The problems I have in this game is that the helicopter is incredibly hard to pilot. Maybe I just 
 suck, but still. The game supports 24 players. This may be big. But this is battlefield. The maps 
 are huge and require more men. In the single player, when you die, your charactor will respawn 
 without any penalty at all. This is good, but for a player that wants challange, this isn't it. 
 
  
  Sorry that this review is so long. I just felt that I should give a reason behind why I gave this 
 game a 9.5, rather than because its "good".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a great shooter. Its easy to say that BBC has the best graphics in 
 a shooter, and also the most destructible environments. Every part of this game is awe dropping, 
 the way your gun fires, the way buildings are almost completely destructible, and how everything 
 sounds. This isn't just another shooter, but its a shooter where almost everything is superb. This 
 game is just a lot of fun and as you'd expect the multiplayer is top notch. However as several 
 people have been critical about, there is no Cooperative play which wouldve been an awesome feature. 
 But hey, no one complained when Call Of Duty 4 didnt have one, and it definitely doesnt stop this 
 game from being one of the best shooters on a console. However this game is not perfect. It has 
 some small flaws that dont give too much away from the expierence. One is that you have this needle 
 that heals you at anytime you want (if its charged) and it kind of distracts from the gameplay, 
 when your worrying about when your needles going to charge up. Also your character respawns without 
 any penalties, making the game a little on the easy side. It also makes it seem like the single 
 player was an afterthought since its borrowing the respawn feature from the multiplayer. Bust rest 
 assure these are just minor things, the cool weapons and intense gameplay will surpass all the 
 tiny flaws that this game has. All in all Battlefield Bad Company is the game you've been looking 
 for shooter fans! After playing this game you wont want to turn to any other shooter in your library! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Yes COD4 is better. But this is too in some ways it even better. Three things B: BC does better 
 are... destructible buildings etc. now u cant camp because you hiding spot can be blown away which 
 causes for change of tactics. The second thing B: BC does better than COD4 is the audio. The audio 
 in this game is the best I've heard it is so well done, this really puts you in the feeling that 
 you are really there. Also the single player is amazing but what really makes it enjoyable is the 
 squad you are with these guys are hilarious and really keep you entertain. They are a bit cocky 
 in heated battles but I find that funny but ign thinks they shouldn't be smarting off. The game 
 is a bit easy with the whole recovering health but in reality its a less frustrating to play also 
 you can only do it in single player so that good. One other thing is no co-op what so ever but 
 that's ok I don't even use co-op. The only time i did was for Halo 3 for getting the legendary 
 achievements that was it. Other than that this is a beautiful looking game a lot of fun and very 
 addicting all around. The multilayer will keep you entertaining for a very long time. Trust me 
 this is a well spent $60.00 
  
  Note: At the time of this review I had just played the game for about 5 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azombie1024
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  I've been trying out the Bad Company demo since it was released,
  I've played every previous Battlefield game on the PC to date.
  
  This review focuses on my 
 experience with the online portion of BC.
  
  
  Initial Thoughts:
  It's fun.
  Just like all other battlefield games it's enjoyable but there's
  nothing revolutionary here.. 
 if not for the logo shown multiple
  times around I wouldn't know this was a new engine but assume it
  was the old one with destructible 
 buildings and video filters.
  (honestly why does the whole game force it to look like it's on
  an old old analog TV CRT TV???)
 
  
  
  After playing more:
  The initial fun I had noticed soon fades due in large part to three
  factors: Friendly Fire, 
 Forced Squads, Engine Flaws/Bugs.
  
  Friendly Fire issues -
  I had been team killed so my teammate can use the artillery, I have
  been killed because I had 
 the upgraded rifle and my squad mate didn't,
  etc.
  The only way to counter-act this? TK them back lowering your score.
  
  Forced Squad issues 
 -
  I enjoy the idea of squads and they're useful in some situations.
  Problems with this being most people are idiots.
  I tend to when in a vehicle switch between 
 the different seats to
  use the different weapons.. but if my squad mates spawn on me more
  often than not the then begin driving my jeep/boat/tank and tend to
  get me killed.
  
  Engine 
 Flaws -
  Examples of problems and bugs I've noticed so far.
    I'm in a boat, teammate runs into me with a tank.. counts as suicide
    I'm using airstrike, 
 teammate spawns on me but spawns on the missile
  instead then falls to their death
    I jump between some pipes and a fench and die instantly
    I park a helicoptor in 1 inch of 
 water and it explodes
    Headshots don't count on someone using the TOW missile with sniper
    Various weapon inbalances; 
 Shotgun/Pistol godly, Sniper Rifle unpre-
  dictable based on range, SAW worthless at short range, chopper paper thin
    Being killed after 
 being around a corner or after your assailant is
  already dead
  ... Many more I'm forgetting
  
  Every other BF game has suffered the same fates.. fun game 
 but suffers
  from engine flaws that go unpatched.
  
  
  
  Just my two cents but at first I was simply going to rent this game..
  now I won't even rent 
 it due to the countless times this game has shown
  a lack of proper play testing and design
  
  
  I'm a 24 year old male gamer who's played every 
 online FPS since the
  original Unreal Tournament as well as various other online games and
  follow the development of gaming engines and company/IPs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game blew me away its one of those games that are able to grasp what is fun about there games. 
 this game rivals CoD4 is many ways :)
  
  Story- suprisingly a good one with funny characters. overall you wont be dissapointed
  
  Gameplay- 
 although i must admit CoD4's handle on guns felt smoother and more fluid this game isnt to far 
 behind but handles well, vechiles are good and when you see a tank you run unlike halo 3 where 
 u just run and hijack it lol
  
  Destruction- This is one of the huge selling points of the game. if you dont care for story or 
 intense multiplayer then just rent it or whatever and blow stuff up. other games have said they 
 have destructible enviorments but not much mustly just barrels and little cement slabs. BF BC presents 
 its destruction so nicely you can just sit there and look at explosions for hours
  
  Replay- even if u dont have much liking to singleplay or multi just go around blowing stuff up. 
 it sounds kinda evil/boring but when u start to blow things up its just fun :D
  
  Audio- good no complaints
  
  Overall- i liked this game its trying something new in the market 
 unlike the leigon of clones out there copying other good games :P i recommend this game highly 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HateIsGood2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  the single player is more than what i have expected, full of action and funny dialogue but the 
 main reason to buy this game is the multiplayer, if you got four friends to be your squat using 
 teamwork, the multiplayer is going to be extremely awesome. it have a great leveling system ( not 
 as good as call of dutys) but still is great. many people say why have this game if i have call 
 of duty, well call of duty is kind of a really closed and limited fps game, while battlefield B 
 C is extremely free to take decisions with the huge maps the, and the multiplayer you haven't enjoyed 
 warfare until you are being shot by a chopper inside a house looking all the walls break and wonder 
 "i am still alive" and when you realize you are, is like ,play it and discover by yourself i highly 
 recommend it. MUST BUY (sorry if i wrote something really awful i am Latino) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ded5833
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company, is not made by a bad company at all. despite the controversy surrounding 
 EA and DICE by making it so you pay for guns, then fixing it and despite it being EA. They have 
 made a AWESOME GAME. I was very satisfied with this game. It has shown me the light of the night. 
 You know that building there? Well bam, the walls are gone and the enemies are shown. They're are 
 tanks and Humvee and jeep and stuff, you are able to pilot and drive all, even an artillery. The 
 single player is extraordinary even better the Call Of Duty 4's single player, no. even better 
 than Final Fantasy VII. It is simply unparalleled, the characters are vivid with expression and 
 they say catchy and witty one liners. I have not seen such lovable characters since Superman 64 
 and 18 Wheeler. The multi player experience is too great and amazing to be ignored. If you do not 
 get Xbox Live, well get it. Because without you will be sad camper in your tent playing Patapon 
 on your Gameboy. The multi player there is so much to say about it. I just describe how good it 
 is. 
  
  the dragon's they be sweet too.
  
  But overall, Battlefield offers so much to the player to decide upon, to play single player or 
 multi player. They are just soooo good. There is literally thousands of difficulty levels to keep 
 you entertained. Yeah. Don't miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAballer73
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I played the beta, the demo, and now the game. First off, yes the audio is great but since when 
 does the audio make the game. Singleplayer has so far been bland and dull. It does not have a great 
 story. Graphics are Ok, and the detruction enviroment, although fun at first, gets boring; repetative; 
 and unneccesary. Multiplayer is bad. I'm probably going to be the only one who admits that the 
 game mode is terrible. Complicated and just not fun. There are only 8 maps, leaving some to want 
 more since those 8 maps arent great. the maps are so large, that there is a problem. i went 10 
 minutes before meeting an enemy, because they mostly stay on their side of the map. i finnally 
 got bored and ran out there and some tank ran me over. Wtf? 
  
  
  graphics - 7
  gameplay- 3
  Story- 2
  Sound- 9
  Multiplayer- 2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKiller92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is one of the best modern warfare games I have ever played, other than 
 Call of Duty 4 that is. With the combination of realistic physics and an actual single player story 
 line, it is the greatest game in the series. The online is just as good, it's more fun than Battlefield 
 2, which was a complete success. After I tried the demo, i knew this game would be an instant success. 
 this game is one that should be kept and will be a classic. I think the only competition for this 
 game will be Gears of War 2 exclusively for the XBOX 360. Whoever owns and XBOX 360 or Playstation 
 3 should go to the store immediately and buy this game because it is amazing. If you are still 
 stuck with Call of DUty 4, try playing this game, it's just as good. I love this game and I hope 
 it lasts forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foster113
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most Battlefield games this one dumps that old fun but empty single player campaign and 
 puts in a very fun campaign with an actual honest to goodness storyline! And it works! When I picked 
 up this game I was fearing it would be a little too buddy cop-ish, and it is, in ways. But that 
 is completely over seen by fun, memorable characters with a very in depth plot line.
  
  The graphics in this game are simply amazing, if not a little rough and cut at times, and the interaction 
 with the environment is just great, I myself could spend countless hours cutting down trees with 
 my machine gun, if there wasn't a plot that I really wanted to go along with.
  The music in this game annoyed the hell out of me to start with, but what can I say, it really 
 grew on me.
  
  Now for the multiplayer, Just like other Battlefield games this one sticks with the fun highly 
 addictive multiplayer gameplay and allows you to choose between 5 classes, Assult, Recon, Specialist, 
 Demolition and Support, each with weapons and add-ons to unlock. The goal in Multiplayer is to 
 either attack and try to obtain gold crates, or defend the gold crates and fend off attackers whose 
 reinforcements drop if they cant obtain a gold crate, and once their reinforcement bar goes all 
 the way down or all the gold crates are captured, its game over.
  
  There are plenty of weapons, vehicles and exciting gameplay to keep you playing for a loooong time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackDraven666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  To start off i will talk about the story.... F***ING amazing..... Finally a Battlefield game that 
 has a plot and story with interesting characters.... The tough guy in charge... The nerdy know it 
 all.... the loud mouth funny guy.... and then there's Preston the new guy.
  
  The enviorment is now at everyones mercy... In BF2: Modern Combat u hit a wooden fence and u get 
 stuck... and in a tank nontheless.... Well its fixed LOL. Now u can destroy anyone and anything in 
 your path.... It will be very hard to camp in buildings.... cuz they can go boom now.... cant find 
 a door make one!!!!
  
  Another thing is that u can finally customize your weapons and unlocks
  
  Sure game developers 
 are taking some things from CoD4.... its a good idea... some elements from there could be beneficial 
 to these kind of games.... had to spice it up somehow.... 
  
  
  XBOX LIVE TAG IS == BlackDraven if anyone wants to hit me up on it just request me and we can hopefuly 
 get a clan going. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
