-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beautiful Katamari
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/beautifulkatamari/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is as offbeat and addictive as ever.
 Great soundtrack.
 Some choice lines from the King of All Cosmos.
 Leaderboards give you plenty of incentive to replay stages.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Longtime fans of the series won't find much new or unique content here.
 Multiplayer options still feel limited.
 Graphics do very little to take advantage of the 360's more powerful hardware.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 840 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Oct 16, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beautiful Katamari includes few surprises, but it does offer up more of the enchanting gameplay 
 and charming atmosphere the series is known for. 

  Something about Beautiful Katamari feels a little bit... off. Not in a "this game is bad" kind of 
 way, but more of a "haven't we done all this before?" kind of way. Beautiful Katamari is the fourth 
 entry in Namco Bandai's utterly loopy franchise about space royalty, painstakingly laid-out clutter, 
 and magical balls that roll up anything in their path into massive planet-replacing clumps, and 
 it's quite a lot like its predecessors. Of course, that's not exactly a bad thing. The same cheery 
 vibe and frequent ludicrousness from the previous games permeate every aspect of this newest installment. 
 But at the same time, all that ludicrousness isn't quite as ludicrous anymore, now that it's been 
 done so many times. Still, there's plenty of good-natured silliness and clump-making fun to be 
 had in Beautiful Katamari, even if it is all too familiar.  

           You've rolled this clump before, but you'll be happy to do it again in Beautiful Katamari. 

  For those unfamiliar with the Katamari series up to this point, it revolves around the clump-rolling 
 adventures of the Prince of All Cosmos, an adorably teensy sprite of a creature who is dwarfed 
 both in size and ego by his pompous, flamboyant, and deeply unhinged father, the King of All Cosmos. 
 With each game, the king finds some excuse to force the prince to roll up various parts of Earth 
 into delightful katamaris, so that he can use his powers to turn them into new stars, planets, 
 satellites, and other celestial bric-a-brac. In the case of Beautiful Katamari, the royal family 
 of the cosmos is on vacation and enjoying a game of tennis. When the king delivers his patented 
 serve, he accidentally tears a hole in the universe, which begins sucking up all the planetary 
 bodies in the vicinity. Never one to fix his own mistakes, the king sends the prince to Earth to 
 replace all the lost space landmarks.  

  You do this by rolling a katamari around one of several bizarre environments. Controlling the katamari 
 simply involves moving the two sticks on the Xbox 360 controller around as if you were controlling 
 a tank. The catch is that you can only roll up items that are relative in size to your katamari. 
 So if you're presented with a teensy katamari, you can only roll up small things, like thumbtacks, 
 coins, and candy pieces, until you're big enough to move on to the next tier of items. Eventually 
 you'll be rolling up people, cars, floating cows, giant mushrooms, Ferris wheels, giant squids, 
 clouds, Trinidad &amp; Tobago, and Orion's Belt, among many, many,  many  other things.  

  Most likely this sounds completely insane, and it certainly is, especially if you've never played 
 one of these games before. But if you have, it might sound all too familiar to you. Beautiful Katamari 
 really is just an exercise in the same formula that the series has been relying on since its inception. 
 You get a few gimmicky stages, like the one where you have to roll up nothing but hot things to 
 get the katamari's temperature to 10,000 degrees, and the peculiar final stage certainly offers 
 something of an interesting twist; but otherwise, it's the exact same formula as the previous games. 

  Still, as predictable and generally unaltered as Beautiful Katamari is, it's quite a bit of fun. 
 Rolling up katamaris is as inexplicably addictive and amusing as it ever was, and though you go 
 into the game knowing the King of All Cosmos is going to deliver a bunch of peculiar one-liners, 
 you'll still chuckle at some of his delivered absurdities. It's not the best or most original comedy 
 to be found in the series, but it's entertaining stuff all the same.  

  Unfortunately, like its predecessors, Beautiful Katamari is over all too quickly. You can bust 
 through all the game's stages in just a few hours, though odds are that you won't get anywhere 
 near the biggest katamaris you could within that time span, meaning you'll want to go back and 
 play each stage again and again, especially now that there are online leaderboards to glance at 
 to see how you stack up against the world. There are also hidden items to be found, like cousins 
 of the prince who you can play as, and clothing items to dress your prince in. Of course, you might 
 also be inspired to go and get all of the game's achievements, though they aren't terribly exciting 
 by any means.  

  There are also multiplayer modes, both versus and co-op. The co-op mode is offline only, and is 
 the same exact one from We Love Katamari on the PlayStation 2. You and your friend both control 
 the same katamari at the same time, with one player controlling the left side, and the other the 
 right. It's a slightly awkward mode, since you'll basically have to yell at your friend to get 
 them to steer where you want them to, but it can be quite fun when you and your buddy are in a 
 good rhythm. Versus mode is the only mode that can be played both online and offline, and it, too, 
 is quite familiar. The king tasks you with rolling up the most of a very specific item, and then 
 you're plopped down in a relatively small version of one of the main game environments. It's not 
 a bad mode, especially since you can attack your opponent and knock some of their items off. But 
 you can't help but wish for something a bit less restrictive. A versus mode version of the standard 
 game would be awesome, and with the jump to the Xbox 360 technology, you'd think the game could 
 handle the scaling issues that might stem from such a mode.  

  Then again, Beautiful Katamari doesn't look much like an Xbox 360 game. If anything, it looks like 
 the PS2 game engine upscaled to the brink of exploding. Granted, the Katamari games have never 
 been graphical powerhouses in the traditional sense -- instead, it's always been more about the weird, 
 angular art style and crazy sense of scale as you grow ever larger. All of those things are certainly 
 intact here, but we hoped for visuals that represented some kind of significant advance over those 
 in previous games. The world and things that dwell within it just look kind of fuzzy up close, 
 and while there are plenty of colorful backdrops and square-shaped people, again, all of it seems 
 ripped right out of the PS2 games. Even the same flawed camera from the old PS2 games hasn't seen 
 much improvement. In tight spaces, you tend to get hung up on objects you can't see, and walls 
 will sometimes obscure your view entirely. There's an x-ray vision mode of sorts that pops up in 
 some situations and lets you see through the walls, but it's inconsistently effective.  

           The King of All Cosmos would like to take this opportunity to remind you that he is 120% 
 loco en la cabeza.      

  At least the audio is still pretty awesome. Once again, Beautiful Katamari delivers one of the 
 quirkiest and most oddly listenable soundtracks in gaming. It's the same sort of mix of J-pop, 
 techno-infused jazz, and ambient electro that the earlier games employed (and, in fact, it does 
 reuse a couple of songs from earlier games) , and it still fits the oddball vibe of the game perfectly. 
 Sound effects seem largely untouched from the PS2 games, and the king still speaks in nothing but 
 record scratches, but what's there is still highly amusing stuff.  

  Some players will undoubtedly be disappointed by Beautiful Katamari's lack of forward progress. 
 After all, for a series that was founded on such an out-of-left-field and highly original concept, 
 it hasn't made much headway over the last few years, instead turning in sequel after sequel that 
 follows the same precise formula of the original Katamari Damacy. But even for all its sidestepping, 
 Beautiful Katamari is undeniably charming and remains entertaining. It's familiar yet still feels 
 fresh and fun, primarily because there just isn't much else out there like this game. Whether you're 
 a longtime fan of the franchise or a newcomer to the wonderfully weird world of Katamari, Beautiful 
 Katamari is worth a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Quickee42
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is the fourth entry in the Katamari series, a game which has often been held 
 in high regard by casual and hardcore gamers alike due to simple but addictive gameplay and an 
 unusual (read: bizarre) premise.
  
  In this game, the King of all Cosmos, on a royal vacation with his family, hits a tennis serve 
 a bit too fast and creates a very selective black hole, which sucks up everything in the solar 
 system but the Earth. The King of all Cosmos then tasks you to roll up objects on Earth to create 
 the various other planets in the solar system.
  
  Crazy, yes? Yes. On each level of the game (of which there are about ten or so) you start off with 
 a ball (or katamari) which you roll around the level picking up things which are smaller than your 
 katamari but avoiding things which are larger. Each level, apart from a couple which have slightly 
 different twists, has a time limit; your katamari rapidly increases in size as you pick things 
 up though, so while at the beginning of each level you might be dwarfed by objects such as cats 
 or cars, within a few short minutes you'll be rolling them up without a second thought. In later 
 levels you'll be rolling up cities and continents - all this comes at a cost though, as the framerate 
 drags considerably at these points.
  
  It's an interesting premise, and it's not hard to see how it can be very addictive. Unfortunately, 
 the already limited number of levels often repeat the same level design, so effectively you could 
 get through all the level designs within about twnety minutes, and the game itself only lasts an 
 hour or two from start to finish. Extra items will take a while longer to collect, but it's still 
 unforgivably short. Maybe going on to the planets you've created would have been a good idea? Or 
 starting from different places rather than one of the two or three shops that exist on earth?
 
  
  The gameplay itself, addictive though it may be, is dragged down by a horrible control system; 
 you almost certainly won't have worked it out by the time you finish the game; why not have the 
 right analogue stick control direction and the camera, and the left analogue stick control movement 
 of your katamari? The actual controls are so awful it's rather difficult to control your direction 
 at times, and really only work when you're making minor alterations to direction. Even with proper 
 controls in place, the camera doesn't work well at all; it's often awkward, particularly when your 
 katamari gets into small spaces, when it goes rather haywire and tries to see through walls.
  
  Stylistically, the game definitely holds your sttention; the bright colours and blocks are 
 unseen in these times of gritty FPSs, and the off character design fits in well with the offbeat 
 humour. Unfortunately, at times the humour is a little too offbeat; the King of all Cosmos talks 
 incessantly as well, even during gameplay, forcing you to press the a-button to get through his 
 dialogue which you've inevitably heard many times before. Unfortunately, in pressing the a-button 
 repeatedly for a few seconds stops control of the katamari - not fun when you're in a short time 
 limit. trying to skip his dialogue before a level (in which he highlights the time and score you've 
 got to get) ironically prompts him to spout more nonsense at you for skipping dialogue. I mean, 
 were the designers trying their level best to infuriate us!? Not having a conventional menu screen 
 with options doesn't help either - the option to turn the King of all Cosmos off seems mysteriously 
 absent.
  
  Overall, the ideas are still present, but it's lame execution. Still, it's enjoyable for the first 
 playthrough of an hour or two, but won't hold your attention any longer; it's an ideal rental in 
 that respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, bring that up at the dinner table someday. 
  
  Surreal and ridiculous as that may sound, any gamer who has experienced the bottomless reserve 
 of disturbing randomness that is the Katamari series will be able to remember the marvelous moments 
 of the Katamari universe. The original Katamari game wasn't just over-the-top: it was actually 
 a blast to play. Who would've thought that simply rolling up stuff could be so much fun? Katamari 
 became a staple in gaming history, emphasizing a strict lack of order in its environments while 
 piling on a crazy charm, unforgettable soundtracks, and some of the most simplistic (though addictive) 
 gameplay ever seen on the Playstation 2. With its sequel We Love Katamari, the world grew bigger 
 and the series instantly rolled its way to cult classics. Now, for the first time, Katamari rolls 
 its way into the Xbox 360 library with Beautiful Katamari. With a powerful new hardware system 
 ready to go, can Beautiful Katamari continue where its predecessors left off without sacrificing 
 the series' charm?
  
  Beautiful Katamari controls the same way that it always has: with the two analog sticks. By tilting 
 the analog sticks in a specific direction together, you roll the Katamari. Tilt only one to change 
 the camera. You get a selection of the same moves that you've seen in other Katamari games: quick 
 turns, faster camera movement, and the revving roll of dashing technique all come standard. Essentially, 
 if you've played the Playstation 2 Katamari games, Beautiful Katamari will be very familiar. I 
 did find the sensitivity to be a bit too much initially, but with practice, I found it to be very 
 easy to play. The 360 controller doesn't shift many abilities, but it works well, even if the sensitivity 
 was a little odd.
  
  The King of All Cosmos sends the miniscule Prince to Earth once more to roll up crap to make stars. 
 Like the games before it, Beautiful Katamari's version of Earth has absolutely no sense of order. 
 We Love Katamari had me shocked enough, but Beautiful Katamari really sells it in terms of absolute 
 chaos on Earth. You'll find elephants atop skyscrapers, umbrellas randomly in the streets, and 
 the typical block-headed people going about their daily business only to start flailing their arms 
 once your Katamari actually rolls them up. This is weird, very weird in fact, but it keeps a captivating 
 charm that really puts the whole thing into an odd perspective. As your Katamari grows, you soon 
 become that omniscient leadership and begin to toy with the rest of the world as your Katamari 
 harvests the many objects on Earth. The empowerment and transcendent might of the Katamari has 
 always been the series' trademark, and Beautiful Katamari doesn't do that incorrectly by any means.
 
  
  The really serious problem is that the game doesn't offer the same simplistic freedom that past 
 games have created. Most of the time, the King of All Cosmos will set your aim to a specific type 
 of item, essentially saying that you must collect a great amount of this particular item. This 
 has been done before in past Katamari games, but it's pushed far too much in Beautiful Katamari. 
 One of the most satisfying parts of the Katamari was the ability to transcend different sizes at 
 your own leisure, but in Beautiful Katamari, you're basically on a scavenger hunt for the best 
 versions of what the King is after. If you've played past Katamari games, you'll no doubt yearn 
 for the simple "make your Katamari this big" assignment. At the end of each round, the King gives 
 you points depending on how well you did your job. You can unlock Eternal Modes, where you can 
 roll up as much as possible with no time limit, but unlocking these means doing what the King asks 
 and in great excess. This limitation hurts the game severely, and while it can be fun in short 
 bursts, doesn't offer much freedom in making your Katamari as colossal and amazing as you want.
 
  
  Along with a blatantly short single-player, Beautiful Katamari brings the rolling antics to Xbox 
 Live with online versus battle multiplayer. However, it's the same types of missions that saturate 
 the single-player: collect the most of one type of item. Even worse is that the online community 
 is sparse at best. I was lucky enough to get a single game going. The game did have its moments, 
 but it really doesn't act progressively for the franchise. Though it's an interesting idea, online 
 multiplayer doesn't turn out to be the best plan to innovate in Beautiful Katamari. You can also 
 play versus offline, and the classic co-op mode returns, though it's still pretty difficult to 
 coordinate your Katamari as a team. The multiplayer in Beautiful Katamari is relatively ambitious, 
 but it never really gets off the ground, and you will most likely want to roll alone after the 
 chaos subsides.
  
  The presentation in Beautiful Katamari can pretty much be described as safe. There's really nothing 
 particularly wrong with the presentation, mostly because the game doesn't push any of the Xbox 
 360's abilities. The jumbled and random worlds still look like they did on the Playstation 2, though 
 load times have been considerably cut down. The quirky aesthetic is still great to see: the characters' 
 blocky style and the many items' simple designs look as good as they always have. There are times 
 when the game moves smoother than its PS2 predecessors, but when things get frantic, it doesn't 
 look much better than the past Katamari games. The soundtrack, for better or for worse, retains 
 the same ridiculous variety of the past games. You'll here the poppy Japanese music (along with 
 the traditional na-NA theme) along with everything from lightly performed serenades to soft crooner 
 tunes. The sound effects of the King's record scratching speak and the Katamari's plucking up of 
 items all retain their charm. The entire presentation doesn't do much to set itself into the next-generation, 
 but if you really liked the past Katamari games and their obscure presentations, then Beautiful 
 Katamari will be a nostalgic joyride.
  
  Pros
  + Gameplay is still relatively fun
  + Great soundtrack and quirky graphics
  + Level design is as crazy and weird as memory recalls
 
  
  Cons
  - Seriously, not much has changed
  - Mission structure is limited
  - Multiplayer is flawed and near-vacant
  - Did I mention that this is pretty much the same game?
 
  
  Beautiful Katamari is recycled content. That's not to say that it's bad recycled content; it's 
 just that we've seen all of this before. The few changes that the game does present don't work 
 out as well as expected, and the multiplayer is still critically flawed with its slim community. 
 If you can overcome that fact that you've played this game before, Beautiful Katamari still delivers 
 the addictively simple, though incredibly deep gameplay seen for a while now. The presentation 
 retains every bit of quirkiness that the series has collectively shown over the past few years; 
 you'll most likely be humming at least one of the tunes that the game plays. However, Beautiful 
 Katamari is a disappointment. The game just doesn't seem to have a functionally progressive piece 
 in its design. As much as I wanted to happily roll the Katamari through a city to pick up random 
 people as star fuel, Beautiful Katamari put far too many limitations on the gameplay. All in all, 
 unless you're a die-hard Katamari fan, just rent this. There's fun to be had, but the gameplay 
 limitations, flawed multiplayer, and general opposition to doing anything new hurts what could've 
 been the best Katamari yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceboxhero_x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Before I start with this review, I have to add that this is the first Katamari game I actually 
 paid much attention to. That being said, veterans of the series would probably find this game particularly 
 dull and much of the same. 
  
  Beautiful Katamari is funny, addicting, but all too short. The nutty world of Katamari is entirely 
 charming and will have you scratching your head wondering just what was going through the minds 
 of those that created the game (not in a bad way, of course) . You play as a sprite, the Prince, 
 who is ordered by his father, the King, to roll up objects that will turn into cosmic bodies. Sometimes 
 the ratios are off, and some objects are seen as larger than others in the game, but still, I could 
 spend hours rolling up my ball to the size of Jupiter in just precious few minutes.
  
  The King will tell you with each mission to roll up certain items (such as cold items, ritzy items, 
 etc.) , but this aspect of the game is purely optional, and more for those that wish to master the 
 game score-wise. As long as you enlarge your Katamari to the specified time within the time limit, 
 you're golden. 
  
  The dialogue in the game is purely entertaining and insanely quirky. The entire plot is very strange, 
 but its what gives this game it's charm. Unfortunately, the length of Beautiful Katamari severely 
 takes away from the overall game. Within only a few short missions, the game is finished. The only 
 way you'll get more out of it is to do "side missions," such as finding the Prince's cousins or 
 rolling up presents (which are accessories to decorate your sprite) . Playing the game straight 
 through would only take a few hours to complete. 
  
  If you're looking for something different and casual, I would strongly recommend Katamari. While 
 fun, this game was clearly not meant for much replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is the fourth in the series of the zany Katamari games, which focus on a character 
 known simply as The Prince, son of The King of All Cosmos.
  
  The King and his wife are having a rousing game of tennis, when suddenly the ball is hit into outerspace 
 with such force that it creates a black hole in space, sucking all of the stars from the sky. The 
 Prince is sent to roll up anything and everything that can be found on Earth to replace the stars.
 
  
  No, I'm serious. That's the storyline.
  
  If you've played since Katamari Damacy on the PS2 like myself, then you already know what to expect. 
 However, for newcomers, the game is played by rolling up tons and tons of random items with a ball-like 
 object called a Katamari, which will then be sent in space to replace a celestial body. Within 
 the levels are cousins, which are The Prince's relatives who act as other playable characters, 
 and presents, which let you customize your chosen character with little accessories.
  
  The game is simple, but it never fails to be entertaining. The odd levels keep you captivated, 
 and the strange soundtrack keeps you vexed while you mindlessly roll up items.
  
  The game is a little short on content, however. The game can easily be finished in a few short 
 sittings, and the online play is virtually nonexistant a year after the game's release. If you're 
 willing to pay, you can continue with downloadable content, including new gifts, cousins, and levels.
 
  
  In closing, this game is a simple, fun game, that anyone can enjoy, even if it is a short play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyro
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  A delightful and colourful game for those who have never played the Katamari collection before. 
 Be addicted to bright colours, strange and wonderful characters and all around cuteness.
  
  There is no other game like it, such bright colours, unusual shapes, funky music and just UNUSUALNESS 
 all around (which is what the game intends to be)
  
  Controls are easy to get use to but directing the Katamari is another and beating that dastardedly 
 time score becomes angrily addictive. When I say angry, I mean, you want to skip the inbetween 
 and try try try again!
  
  Though objectives become repeatative, as does in puzzle type games, you'll be wanting more, collecting 
 everything on this known (and their known) planet (including the planet!) .
  
  There is even an online play which though lacks substance is still fun with achievements and cookies 
 to win for.
  
  Downsides to this game, as a lot of Xbox games these days, is having to 'purchase' extra levels 
 through marketplace. The only reason why it does not score 10/10
  
  So if you're bored of the usual games, sick of shooting other players up, racing around cities 
 and annhilating zombies or aliens, this game is surely one to cheer you up into high gaming spirits 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Let me say I only played the original Katamari briefly at a friend's house but I LOVED this game. 
 In an industry that is built on recycling and ripping off others ideas, Katamari came in and said 
 "screw conventional games, let's just roll crap up in a ball!"
  
  However, it didn't take long for the series to start to feel stale. A second PS2 game came out 
 followed by a clunky PSP game and now its the Xbox's term to try to reinvent the franchise.
  
  This time the king of the Cosmos was playing tennis and accidentally knocked the ball into 
 space making a black hole that began to suck up the galaxy and once again it's up to the prince 
 to roll up as much junk as possible in this alternate reality earth where people are made of blocks 
 and random stuff is just lying around.
  
  The game is still as simple and fun as ever but they did try to add some new goodies. Throughout 
 each level you can roll up presents and cousins. Presents are collected in the birthday cake in 
 the hub world and consist of things the Prince can wear like hats and scarves. Cousins are little 
 characters like the prince and once one is found, you can switch and play as another character. 
 I liked Sherman the Snowman. Also the presents change depending on the cousin who equips them.
 
  
  Also added is some online multiplayer however the multiplayer options aren't that good. Co-op has 
 two people trying to control one ball which is awkward. Vs. has two of you battling in a small 
 arena for items. Neither mode is fun or addictive. I don't understand why they couldn't have two 
 people just compete in a regular stage. At least there's Xbox Live leaderboards and it is fun to 
 go back to stages and compete for a higher score.
  
  The game is not without it's issues. Load times are long, the camera still gets hung up due to 
 having the use the right analog stick for this game and the game is short. You can download additional 
 levels but I don't like that. They should've had those from the start.
  
  For being on the 360, there isn't a huge leap in the graphics as Katamari always boasted a simplistic 
 look. It's a little sharper with HD but that's about it. The music is still upbeat and fun.
  
  In the end, Beautiful Katamari is still a fun game and if you didn't play it on the PS2, then 
 it's worth playing but veterans will find, it's a lot of what you've done before. Perhaps it's 
 time to put this series to rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukkinPhuts
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  After being a huge fan of the PS2 and PSP katamari games I was really hoping for something of at 
 least the same quality as those. Unfortunately Beautiful katamari does not quite live up to its 
 predecessors. On the plus side you get to roll the hugest katamari yet, rolling up whole countries 
 and finally ending up in space where you get to roll up stars and planets.
  The music is good as with other Katamari games, the controls are the same as on previous games 
 too so if you have played any of them you will be instantly familiar with them.
  It is all over far too quickly though, the content is sparse compared to other katamari games, 
 yes you can download more challenges over XBL but at a cost. I feel that the downloadable levels 
 are not extra content but rather left out content that should of been included in the game. This 
 may have been a budget priced game in some countries, but in Australia where it is still selling 
 for over $100 in some places, it is not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  Katamari Damacy, We Love Katamari, Me And My Katamari.... and now, Beautiful Katamari, this series 
 is like no other you've seen before! seriously, I mean, have you played a game where you make a 
 huge ball? 
  
  As you probably know, in Japanese, Katamari means a mass, something like the ball you make in the 
 game, and this ball sticks to everything it runs across to grow bigger and bigger, and this is 
 what you have to do in this game
  
  Gameplay and Story:
  
  So why do you have to make Katamaris?
  The stupid king of cosmos (you'll know later why I call 
 him stupid) was playing tennis with his queen, and he accidentally made a hole in the sky that 
 sucked out everything, including the universe, yes lol! =P So now you have to make Katamaris for 
 to make a whole new universe, satellite and other plants hehe
  You'd think that's easy, like I did, but It's really not, for each universe component you make 
 you have to collect a certain type of stuff, like for example, when you're asked to make a satellite, 
 you have to collect playable stuff, like board game pieces etc, otherwise the king would eat your 
 face up for it hehe, he's done it to me many times lol! Ooh you also have to make your Katamari 
 to the wanted size, or else... the king.... yes... he scares me
  Kings aside, you basically control the Prince of cosmos, the green little guy, soo adorable! 
 
  Oooh yes I forgot to mention that you can collect boxes, and these are like presents for you, 
 and they're stored for you inside the cake in the princedom!
  The single player mode is fun, but the multiplayer one is awesome, you and your opponent play a 
 Vs mode with split screens, and you have to collect, again, a certain type of stuff, but what's 
 fun about it is that you can collide to your opponent on purpose so his Katamari loses some stuff 
 and grows smaller hehehe! or you can play the co-op mode when you and your partner basically control 
 the same Katamari
  
  
  Graphics/Presentation/Design:
  
  2D-like cutscens, but no voice acting, just text, like RPGs, but still, cute
  The gameplay graphics 
 haven't changed, not that it's a bad thing! the graphics remain cute and suitable for such game
 
  
  
  Sound:
  
  Cute sound effects when you collects stuffs, and Japanese music in the background hehe! Nice
 
  
  
  I'd say the game is a must-have for a Katamari fan, or anyone who haven't played this game before 
 and seeks a cute game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: revway
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  The point of the game is to roll a big ball from different items, starting of with small pencils 
 until you roll up boats all the way to planets! The story begins with a king that manages to crack 
 a hole in the universe and now you have to restore the planets.
  
  This game gives you a reason to relax. Even though it can get you pretty stressed from the time 
 limit that's often given at the start of each mission you usually clear the deadline and complete 
 each assignment with a breeze.
  
  Recommended to those that want to have something else to do than just shoot people or cut them 
 in half. Although the online-part isn't that fun it still gives you a good 10-20 hours of singelplayer 
 to complete the game. At the end of the story-mode you start to feel that the initial thrill of 
 rolling wear off but by then it's almost over so when the story is complete so is the fun of the 
 game.
  
  Still worth the hours you put in though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm guessing that the reason for Beautiful Katamari receiving mixed reviews has a lot to do with 
 the fact that this is the fourth game in the series, and it's pretty much the same game for the 
 fourth time. If you have already played any other game in the Katamari series, this game may contain 
 little to no refreshing ideas. If you have yet to play any game in the series, then this is probably 
 a great place to start.
  
  In Beautiful Katamari you play as a green horizontal tube shaped headed fella named Prince. Prince 
 has a lot of pressure on his shoulders. You see, he is in charge of fixing the universe. King, 
 who is supposedly the ruler of the universe, was actually responsible for ruining the universe 
 in the first place. In a game of tennis, he hit the ball so hard, that he knocked a black hole 
 in the sky. Sucking up everything in the universe. To rebuild the galaxy Prince must go and roll 
 up the things necessary to rebuild the planets, moon, and sun. Failure to do so will result in 
 eternal punishment on a pool table. You'll see what I'm talking about when you die. And you will 
 die. Beautiful Katamari is a very challenging games. Especially if you're a Katamari rolling rookie. 
 The Katamari ball is capable of picking up anything in the universe, but not all at once. You'll 
 have to start out picking up small items such as candy pieces, mice, bugs, etc. But as your Katamari 
 grows bigger you'll be able to roll across new areas of the stages and pick up bigger things such 
 as humans, houses, dinosaurs, etc. Your goal is to get the Katamari to a certain size in a limited 
 amount of time. Doing so will mean you have accomplished your task. However, if you want to impress 
 King you will need to grab specific items. For example, when playing a stage where king tells you 
 to collect cold items to rebuild the planet Pluto (which is now a planetoid by the way) , how many 
 cold items you get will reflect on your total score. Not every stage makes you roll up the Katamari 
 to just a certain size. For example, when rebuilding Mars you must continually roll over hot items 
 until your Katamari reaches a blistering temperature. Bulldozing over hundreds and hundreds of 
 the game's items is a lot of fun. It's pretty simplistic but also very addicting and challenging. 
 Now to share some of my gripes with the gameplay. The controls are pretty tough to get used to. 
 Both analog sticks are a necessity for rolling the Katamari around. You have to tilt both sticks 
 in the direction you want to move. But the left analog stick is also the stick that controls the 
 camera. It makes backing up with the Katamari very slow, and makes for an aggravating camera as 
 well. Another thing that really annoyed me is how the Katamari gets stuck a lot. It understandable 
 at times when you try and squeeze through a tiny area with an enormous Katamari. But sometimes 
 it gets stuck for no apparent reason. It rarely happens, but can be potentially deadly to your 
 mission.
  
  Beautiful Katamari is a very sharp looking game. There are better looking games on the 360, but 
 few with such colorful, animated style. The sound effects are very good. When rolling up items 
 you hear a nice little popping sound. Kinda like when you suck in your cheeks and beat on them 
 with your index finger... The game's soundtrack is primarily Japanese pop. I wouldn't go as far 
 to say that the game's music is great. But the songs fit the game very well. I can only think of 
 one track that I didn't really like. And it was one that sounded like a 3 year old Japanese toddler 
 talking over a bunch of pop arranged instrumentals. Beautiful Katamari suffers in value. The single 
 player campaign is short, but should take up a little bit of time due to the game's difficulty. 
 The game does have Xbox Live, but I won't be able to provide any info on that, since I do not have 
 Xbox Live. There is a co-op mode to go along with the rather short single player campaign. But 
 the co-op mode has nothing to do with the single player campaign. All you can do in co-op is beat 
 three levels with a buddy. Battle mode is another multi player mode. There are a good bit of unlockables, 
 but nothing very special. Mainly just other characters and costume attachments for them. So while 
 the game is short, it's also sweet. It may be the same game for the fourth time, but for those 
 of you that haven't played it, treat yourself to this game and enjoy. Everyone else who is familiar 
 with the series may not have much to get excited about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _diggah_
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  I love the Katamari series. I love the music. I love the gameplay. I love the style. I so so wanted 
 to love this outing on the 360. Sadly one major flaw let down the experience - the 360 controller.
 
  
  Now admittedly the 360 controller is great for other games (indeed I fail to find a finer for racing 
 games) but for Katamari its fatally flawed for one simple reason - the analogue sticks are not 
 parallel. You may think this is a trite point but let me explain. 
  
  In the Katamari games you push the Katamari (ball) around the world using the two analogue sticks, 
 working much like a tank (ie one controlling the left side and one controlling the right) . To go 
 forward you push both up; to turn you push one up and one down. On a Playstation controller this 
 later move is accomplished easily due to the sticks being on the same level and close together. 
 
  
  On a 360 controller the sticks are on a diagonal. In the heat of play when you are trying to turn 
 rapidly you often find your little prince (character) not turning at all or very very slowly. A 
 quick glance at your controller reveals why. With the lower stick being lower down the pad, when 
 you push the sticks in opposite directions your hands naturally push up and down in a way that 
 feels natural to them. This has the effect of the lower stick being not quite true up or down but 
 some kind of small angle.
  
  Ok I agree this could possibly be learned with time, but as a seasoned Katamari player I found 
 it totally frustrating not being able to do simple manoeuvres. 
  
  The rest of the game is pretty good (although the music was strangely not up to its high standards) . 
 However the controller issue ruined it for me and I recently sold my game as I couldn't get past 
 that huge problem. 
  
  In summary, more care should have been taken in testing to make the turning angles more forgiving 
 but a good first try. I recommend trying the demo first before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 21, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is a very strange experience, that involves you rolling a ball or katamari, 
 to roll over anything and everything you can possibly find. If Beautiful Katamari does anything 
 perticulary well, it makes rolling things up with your katamari really fun, and there isn't really 
 any other games out there quite like the Katamari series, so in that sene Beautiful Katamari is 
 a great game. But since there is nothing else to besides your katamari and roll things up, even 
 in the game's different settings rolling up all kinds of random things, it becomes shallow pretty 
 quickly. You do absolutely nothing besides roll up things in this game, and even though the game 
 lasts only three hours, the concept gest tired and repetative really quick. The only challenge 
 level that was really cool in the whole game was the second to last one in which you roll up the 
 entire earth, then start rolling over stars was so weird and fun. The challenges in the game just 
 flat out aren't varied enough, and often you'll be in the same enviornments far to often, which 
 can get boring. The game also has no voice acting, which isn't really needed because it essentially 
 doesn't have a story, but it still is strange that there is no voice acting. The graphics in the 
 game are also very mediocere for the 360, and barely look upgraded from ps2 graphics. The game 
 does have online play but the options are so limited that it is unlikely that anyone will play 
 online for more than 2-3 hours. There is co-op but that doesn't work very well either. Overall 
 6.5/10 Beautiful Katamari does offer some fun moments, but the experience itself is simply very 
 flawed. It only takes about 3 hours to beat the all the game's challenge and there isn't any reason 
 to replay that. The online play also gets boring fast, and most of the core gameplay is extremlly 
 repetative and shallow. If you're in the mood for a game bizarre and different, this game could 
 be worth your time, but this game deserves nothing more than a rental because it can be beaten 
 easily in one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  You know when I first heard of this game and its prveious versions, it seemes somewhat silly.... though 
 the graphics were quite spectacular, resembling those kinky cartoons one used to see in the 19760s 
 and 1970s (not that I was around at the time, but u do get the odd old skool screening... or perhaps 
 a glimpse in the second hand bookshop of a wonderous mag???)
  
  Graphics aside, the gameplay is fairly easy, yet pointless.... you are just a silly little character 
 who looks like the snotty kid that got bullied at school for his oversized anorak...... and somehow 
 u manage to roll up all these items.... such as  you believe..... cars!!!
 
  
  But the overall theme of the game does not match upto the graphics..... and dont even talk to me 
 about the gameplay..... it is more or less repetitive, and makes you want to put down the controller..... and 
 finally get stressed out by the ever linger graphics, which have become a demonic eyesore....
 
  
  If you are a little kiddie who likes to mess about with games like this.... all well and good.... nice 
 one.... keep up the good work.... but I have seen one or two adults play this game..... and there 
 may be others who are bedazzled by this games (ahem) apparent beauty..... but this game does not 
 pull my heart strings.... let alone pull my tendons in my hands and fingers...... if you are one 
 those types who likes to doze off during gameplay, and witness the same vibrant colours and encounters 
 with dodgey oddbod doo-gooders dancing delightful discos.... then feel free to........... stand in 
 the looney bin..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diehard66
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Katamari experience. The demo looked like the game would be a lot of fun. Instead 
 I found the obnoxious King to be to my disliking and the levels to be strangely laid out. What 
 you were asked to roll up and where the items were located seemed counter intuitive. 
  
  I found the controls for the game to be awkward. I found myself pushing on the control sticks trying 
 to make the katamari roll faster. I always felt like i was stuck or was sluggish or never rolling 
 in the direction i felt I was pushing it. It's like one of those carts you get at the store that 
 have four wheels that turn in all directions. the cart never goes in a straight line. 
  
  It's a frustrating game and not at all relaxing. I think there is nothing worse that having to 
 play the same levels over and over and over to obtain perfection. If you can achieve the size you 
 need to be, you often do not get the items you need. I wouldn't mind the repetitious play if the 
 feeling of rolling were smooth. If you felt like you could get where you needed to go and direct 
 the ball a little better the game would have had a completely different feel to it. 
  
  There is still a lot to like about the game. what others have said about the king's one liners 
 is true. Some of them are funny. Khaaan. LOL. The music is good and not distracting like some games. 
 
  
  I bought the game used from GameStop and will be returning it on Monday. I'd rather spend my money 
 on something a bit more fun. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosefrog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  I bought Beautiful Katamari because a friend of mine recommended it and I didn't regret. I've been 
 playing it for a quick game now and then and I feel that's the way to approach it - I can't imagine 
 myself playing it for hours straight. 
  
  Soundtrack is fantastic, graphics are... well, adequate for a puzzle action game. Using both thumb 
 controllers is a bit tricky at first, especially turning, but after a while you'll find yourself 
 rolling katamaris without any difficulty.
  
  There aren't too many levels in the game, but they're great fun to play. I found myself playing 
 every level until I got full points and found all presents and cousins (yeah, sounds weird) . If 
 you'll just complete the levels you might be able to play through the game in a pretty short time. 
 If there's a little bit of score hound in you, you will enjoy this game more.
  
  Did I mention that this game is crazy? It's surreal to roll up ninjas, trucks, elephants, trees, 
 trucks, ocean liners, buildings and godzillas into a giant katamari. Funny. There are a few glitches 
 in the game, but nothing really annoying. In one point I fell through the ground and The King of 
 All Cosmos cracked a joke about it. I don't know if it was intentional, but I still got a laugh 
 out of it.
  
  So, in short. Beautiful Katamari is great fun, and I might buy it just for the soundtrack but still 
 it could be a bit cheaper. I paid 59 euro for my copy and that's like 20 euro too much. But still, 
 it's greatly recommended for people who dig crazy puzzle games and those who want to roll up stuff!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraeg
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to start with the basics. The graphics are, to say the least, basic. The models have 
 one position if they are stationary or sometimes two if they are supposed to be moving or living. 
 They are fairly awful... but they do the job, giving a graphical representation both basic enough 
 to allow for lots of items onscreen and complex enough to give each levels distinct vibes.
  
  I felt that the game really shined in it's soundtrack. The sound effects were basic but the 
 jubilant Japanese pop was so fun to listen to that it alone made me play the game again (refusing 
 to use track select and taking the tracks as they come) .
  
  That I noticed there were no fatal flaws or very disruptive glitches. There is a slight clipping 
 issues whereby you will often go straight through objects then at others time struggle to get unstuck 
 from a corner where one relatively small item is blocking you in.
  
  The real quality of any game is shown by something greater (or less) than the sum of its parts. 
 Unfortunately for Beautiful Katamari it does not fare well when judged like this. It has about 
 13 or so levels, each very fun, but (assuming it only takes one go to complete every level) you 
 can finish the game in about two hours. Yes it is re-playable, but not to the extent to where it 
 justifies the 44.99 price. If you get the game you will easily get more than two hours out of 
 it, but 10 would be an exaggeration. 
  
  Overall, I recommend that anyone looking for simple fun rent Beautiful Katamari and anyone living 
 with family should get it. It; s the only game that me (a 17 year old) , my mum, dad, younger sister 
 and our 8 year old neighbours have all played and loved. But, if you buy it, don't expect to be 
 playing it in a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Coming to a new wave of systems, the Katamari franchise rolls out the same old gameplay with very 
 little twists. While that may seem terribly disappointing, the game is still so fun and the King 
 so funny that you're just happy to have some new levels to roll around in.
  
  As always, the story of the game starts with the King of All Cosmos having a mishap that imperils 
 the universe. He then calls on you, the Prince, to fix his mistake for him. This time he's inadvertantly 
 created a black hole, necessitating both replacing what's been swallowed up, and eventually making 
 a katamari big enough to put a cork in it. So it's up to you to re-create the solar system by rolling 
 around and picking up objects, each one adding to your size like a snowball, therefore allowing 
 you to pick up yet bigger things. Smaller planets (which the game still insists on calling "stars") 
 see you only go from 5cm to 20cm, larger ones may see you start at a meter and have to get to 25 
 meters, and others eventually send you rolling on a planet-wide basis. The fun of taking a katamari 
 barely big enough to grab a slice of cheese and eventually snagging cars, boats, and small buildings 
 always pleases. As you slowly churn through the levels, you'll be treated to some of the King's 
 trademark wit and one-liners. Your grade for a planet is also now tied to grabbing certain types 
 of items, with Neptune placing a premium on ocean-related items, the Sun on energy-producing items, 
 and so forth. After you've replaced all that's been lost, you're finally tasked with stopping up 
 the black hole once and for all in a massive, lengthy mission that takes your katamari to sizes 
 never seen before in the series.
  
  As always, one of the strongest points is the amazing music they compose to accompany you on levels. 
 Every song is hummable and perfect, and they even tossed in a few popular songs from earlier games. 
 Interesting twists on some levels add a bit of spice, like one in a grocery store where you're 
 scored by calories rolled up and the recreation of Mars done by getting your Katamari to 10,000 
 degrees. It's also about as family-friendly as a game can get, with zero to offend even the most 
 finicky parent. Time attack is also enhanced by having XBox Live leaderboards, letting you see 
 just how good that last score of yours really was.
  
  It would've been nice if they took advantage of the increased oomph the newer systems have. The 
 graphics could have been updated and polished a bit if they chose, so it feel like you're stuck 
 in last generation. Most sound effects are recycled, as well. Special moves like dash attack are 
 occassionaly tough to pull off, leading to wasted time. The camera getting momentarily caught behind 
 a wall is another issue from the PS2 days that persists, but is generally not a big deal.
  
  The classic gameplay is intact, and the tank-style controls help make the game accessible to 
 those who generally don't play videogames. While not updated, the graphics still convey what they 
 need to, and given the thousands of individual item types in the game, a little lack of detail 
 is forgivable. Aside from the amazing music, the sounds are really just competent. To just play 
 the game with no downloads or trying time attack can be done in under ten hours, even by slightly 
 spazzy people as not much is difficult. Online offerings are sparse, and won't hold interest for 
 long. If you're a fan of the series you'll want to grab this game, but those with a PS2 still hooked 
 up who've never dabbled in this series might want to first opt to get one of the cheaper Katamari 
 games for that system first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colossi_killer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is a nice little addition to the Katamari series with some familiar venues and 
 characters and doable achievements. That said, one cannot complete all of the achievements, or 
 the game for that matter, without paying for additional downloadable content - content, I may add, 
 that has expanded even since its original appearance on XBOX Live. Though I, as a huge fan of the 
 series, contributed to the problem by downloading the content I have to say that having paid $40 
 for a game that is essentially incomplete is a crock of crap and that the people responsible for 
 such things - and XBOX Live in general as they make buying and using points a pain in the a** - 
 need to stop bleeding the masses and do things reasonably, however that may be. 
  
  Apart from the downloadable content arguments, Beautiful Katamari is just as colorful and fun as 
 its predecessors and has the biggest katamaris yet. It is a worthwhile buy for fans of the series 
 - perhaps best as a bargain buy Used at Gamestop or something - with or without the downloadable 
 content and despite its short playthrough, typical of the Katamari games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2Painguin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This was the first Katamari game that I played and, to be honest, when I first bought it I was 
 very skeptical. I mean, how could a stupid game about snowballing various objects be very entertaining? 
 Yet, somehow the game is nearly impossible to put down. Simply put, there is something ridiculously 
 satisfying about picking up mice, people, cars, buildings, continents, planets and everything and 
 anything else you come across.
  
  The game isn't perfect though. It could definitely be longer and the graphics are nothing to laud. 
 Similarly, if you desire realism or a tight plot in all of your games you might be a little disappointed, 
 because the game is neither realistic nor does it make much sense. I know what I just said probably 
 makes the game sound completely stupid, but trust me it definitely is a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Compared to Katamari Damacy, this one takes it hands down. The graphics have improved... the Items 
 are the same and the style is the same, but I think that is the point.... it is suppose to be this 
 abstract universe that the Mad king is part of. I think that they did a great job of moving this 
 first edition to the Xbox 360. The Music score is a much needed improvement. The last Katamari 
 was very much Japanese in its music selection were as Beautiful Katamari music track appeals to 
 a broader audience, without losing its Japanese authenticity. 
  My Wife who is very much a non-gamer, was really into this game, which raises and awareness that 
 with the right games, even the Xbox 360 can compete with Nintendo for the non-gamer market.
  Lots of fun
  Fun fact =8
  Graphics= 7.5 (either you like the style, or you don't)
  Music=8.5
 
  Creativity =9.0
  Replay value =8
  
  Overall, this is one that should be in your collection. IT is not a hardcore game, but certainly 
 will keep you coming back for more Karamari Rolling.
  The only comment I would have it that, by its nature, it is repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Just so everyone knows, the reviews I post are my opinions, I'm not paid and I rate them on how 
 I see them. My opinions may differ from every ones and that's OK.
  
  Name: Beautiful Katamari
  
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox 360 Platform that this 
 game is being reviewed on: XBox 360
  
  Publisher: Namco Bandi Games
  
  Developer: Namco Bandi Games
  
  Genre: Puzzle
  
  Difficulty: Very Hard
  
  Learning 
 Curve: 1 hour! Number of Players:1-2
  
  Online Players: 4
  
  Online Modes: Competitive
  
  Offline Modes: Competitive
  
  Release Date: Oct 16, 2007
 
  
  ESRB Rating: E
  
  ESRB Description: Everyone can Play
  
  Score: 1 out of 10
  
  Game Price
  Price Used: $27.00 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $37.99 (www. amazon. com)
  
  
 Is there a Game Guide Book Available: No
  Price Used:
  Price New: I was told by my mother she said: "Jeff you get upset to easy why don't you try to play 
 a game that isn't as violent as those games you have?" so I took her advice to heart I went and 
 got this game....... BOY WAS THAT A BIG FREAKING MISTAKE THIS GAME SUCKS and I mean it sucks worst 
 than having diarrhea coming out of your nose. Where to start. OK I only got to the second stage 
 but it was so hard getting there I felt me beating the first stage was a huge **** success. The 
 controls were so hard to use in this game it wasn't funny. This review isn't going to be long. 
 The game Sucks. It's harder than Hell, so if you can get past the first stage I congratulate you. 
 This game is so bad I would rather have My Girlfriend Josi, take a pair of Pliers to my balls. 
 It gets a E for everyone because even though it's a crappy game it isn't violent at all. and it 
 gets a 1 out of 10 because it stinks. like Poo would on the 4th July. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  For those unfamiliar with the Katamari series up to this point, it revolves around the clump-rolling 
 adventures of the Prince of All Cosmos, an adorably teensy sprite of a creature who is dwarfed 
 both in size and ego by his pompous, flamboyant, and deeply unhinged father, the King of All Cosmos. 
 With each game, the king finds some excuse to force the prince to roll up various parts of Earth 
 into delightful katamaris, so that he can use his powers to turn them into new stars, planets, 
 satellites, and other celestial bric-a-brac. In the case of Beautiful Katamari, the royal family 
 of the cosmos is on vacation and enjoying a game of tennis. When the king delivers his patented 
 serve, he accidentally tears a hole in the universe, which begins sucking up all the planetary 
 bodies in the vicinity. Never one to fix his own mistakes, the king sends the prince to Earth to 
 replace all the lost space landmarks. 
  
  You do this by rolling a katamari around one of several bizarre environments. Controlling the katamari 
 simply involves moving the two sticks on the Xbox 360 controller around as if you were controlling 
 a tank. The catch is that you can only roll up items that are relative in size to your katamari. 
 So if you're presented with a teensy katamari, you can only roll up small things, like thumbtacks, 
 coins, and candy pieces, until you're big enough to move on to the next tier of items. Eventually 
 you'll be rolling up people, cars, floating cows, giant mushrooms, Ferris wheels, giant squids, 
 clouds, Trinidad & Tobago, and Orion's Belt, among many, many, many other things. 
  
  Most likely this sounds completely insane, and it certainly is, especially if you've never played 
 one of these games before. But if you have, it might sound all too familiar to you. Beautiful Katamari 
 really is just an exercise in the same formula that the series has been relying on since its inception. 
 You get a few gimmicky stages, like the one where you have to roll up nothing but hot things to 
 get the katamari's temperature to 10,000 degrees, and the peculiar final stage certainly offers 
 something of an interesting twist; but otherwise, it's the exact same formula as the previous games. 
 
  
  Still, as predictable and generally unaltered as Beautiful Katamari is, it's quite a bit of fun. 
 Rolling up katamaris is as inexplicably addictive and amusing as it ever was, and though you go 
 into the game knowing the King of All Cosmos is going to deliver a bunch of peculiar one-liners, 
 you'll still chuckle at some of his delivered absurdities. It's not the best or most original comedy 
 to be found in the series, but it's entertaining stuff all the same. 
  
  Unfortunately, like its predecessors, Beautiful Katamari is over all too quickly. You can bust 
 through all the game's stages in just a few hours, though odds are that you won't get anywhere 
 near the biggest katamaris you could within that time span, meaning you'll want to go back and 
 play each stage again and again, especially now that there are online leaderboards to glance at 
 to see how you stack up against the world. There are also hidden items to be found, like cousins 
 of the prince who you can play as, and clothing items to dress your prince in. Of course, you might 
 also be inspired to go and get all of the game's achievements, though they aren't terribly exciting 
 by any means. 
  
  There are also multiplayer modes, both versus and co-op. The co-op mode is offline only, and is 
 the same exact one from We Love Katamari on the PlayStation 2. You and your friend both control 
 the same katamari at the same time, with one player controlling the left side, and the other the 
 right. It's a slightly awkward mode, since you'll basically have to yell at your friend to get 
 them to steer where you want them to, but it can be quite fun when you and your buddy are in a 
 good rhythm. Versus mode is the only mode that can be played both online and offline, and it, too, 
 is quite familiar. The king tasks you with rolling up the most of a very specific item, and then 
 you're plopped down in a relatively small version of one of the main game environments. It's not 
 a bad mode, especially since you can attack your opponent and knock some of their items off. But 
 you can't help but wish for something a bit less restrictive. A versus mode version of the standard 
 game would be awesome, and with the jump to the Xbox 360 technology, you'd think the game could 
 handle the scaling issues that might stem from such a mode. 
  
  Then again, Beautiful Katamari doesn't look much like an Xbox 360 game. If anything, it looks like 
 the PS2 game engine upscaled to the brink of exploding. Granted, the Katamari games have never 
 been graphical powerhouses in the traditional sense -- instead, it's always been more about the weird, 
 angular art style and crazy sense of scale as you grow ever larger. All of those things are certainly 
 intact here, but we hoped for visuals that represented some kind of significant advance over those 
 in previous games. The world and things that dwell within it just look kind of fuzzy up close, 
 and while there are plenty of colorful backdrops and square-shaped people, again, all of it seems 
 ripped right out of the PS2 games. Even the same flawed camera from the old PS2 games hasn't seen 
 much improvement. In tight spaces, you tend to get hung up on objects you can't see, and walls 
 will sometimes obscure your view entirely. There's an x-ray vision mode of sorts that pops up in 
 some situations and lets you see through the walls, but it's inconsistently effective.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amnesiac23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Out of the 3 Katamari games, this is by far the weakest. 
  That's the theme of this review. Not to say that it isn't a great game, but there are so many things 
 missing and sometimes it's difficult to pinpoint exactly what is wrong here, but I think I've gotten 
 it pretty much figured out. (PLEASE bear with me through this review before rating. I don't think 
 the game is all bad, but I'm just going to get that out of the way first) 
  
  First things first... the controls. They just weren't what they have been in the past, which is 
 usually great. Sometimes they are too tight, other times the stupid katamari won't pick up things 
 you've rolled over. But the worst thing is that you get stuck a lot and on things that you really 
 shouldn't get stuck on. This mixed with the bipolar difficulty makes for a frustrating time in 
 the world of Katamari (or universe) . 
  I'm not saying that the controls completely suck or anything, but they are only good when they 
 could have been great as they were in the previous games. 
  
  Another issue I have with the game is the lack of style that the previous games had. This one seems 
 to be missing the signature humor that the series is famous for. Some of it's qurikyness is just 
 missing. I know at this point it seems like I'm nit-picking, but I'm not. If you've played the 
 previous games you'll notice these flaws as well. This game is about rolling around a big ball 
 and collecting objects and having fun. And the best part about the series was being able to go 
 BACK to levels, and try and beat your record. But in some levels in this game, it's almost impossible 
 and depends on too much luck. Thus I feel justified in being a little pissed off. 
  
  Two other small flaws (while I'm on the subject) are the stupid camera and the graphics. The camera 
 is constantly getting stuck, once again making the game more diffucult than it should be. And the 
 graphics look pretty much the same as they did on the PS2. Which in my opinion is just wrong and 
 weird. They could have been updated a little more. 
  
  While I'm on the subject of things weird, there is ONE more thing that got on my nerves but was 
 a little funny at the same time. And this is the level where you have to collect things that are 
 "cool or cold". This level consists of a LOT of Xbox 360s. I actually laughed. It's quite shameless 
 actually, because either way Microsoft is trying despretely to portray the fact that either it's 
 systems do not overheat or that they are "cool". I work at a GameStop and just find that funny. 
 Like I said, it's shameless. 
  
  BUT even with all these flaws, there really is a good game WORTH buying here. It may have these 
 problems, but they only stand out because of the fact that the other 2 games were great. So while 
 this game settled for being "good" instead of great, it still is Katamari and still is very fun. 
 I just hope that your in for more of the same gameplay, because not much has changed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Yet another installment in the Katamari series and you'd know it from the second you loaded it 
 up. If you are a fan of the games you know exactly what to expect; if you don't know what to expect, 
 then I don't know what planet you've been hanging out on for the last 4 years. 
  
  This ball rolling exercise of a game has become quite the classic since it's birth. This is now 
 the 4th installment in the series and a pretty good one at that. Being next gen and all it comes 
 at a $40 price tag which is about 10 steeper than it's predecessors. However, there is an instant 
 dissapointment when you jump on the Xbox Live Marketplace and see that for several dollars each 
 you can buy 4 more levels that they essentially left out of the game to make some extra cash. I 
 think it would have hurt less to just buy a $60 game and get it all than see that they tried to 
 hide the true price of the game.
  
  But, bitterness aside let's talk about the actual game. It has several different crazy levels for 
 you to roll up Katamari's in just like the others. This game even pushes the size to yet another 
 level as you jump above meters and into the kilometers range. But you don't really feel the difference 
 in size being as it's really a relative thing. If you feel like the Katamari is getting huge then 
 thats how you feel, the numbers don't really matter. 
  
  In my opinion Me and My Katamari (PSP) did the best job of letting you know the size of the Katamari 
 you're rolling, but props to this one for boasting up the numbers. Suprisingly enough to this is 
 the first Katamari game I've played that I've experienced some pretty bad slowdown. There doesn't 
 seem to be that many more items on screen or much better graphics compared to the others, but it's 
 definitely chugged on me more than a few times. 
  
  The levels also feel slightly uninspired. I've definitely got a lot more of a liking to this than 
 I did We Love Katamari which I didn't even finish, but I find that I don't get that great Katamari 
 appeal off this like I did the first one or the PSP one. Maybe the formula is wearing out, maybe 
 it's my bitterness, or maybe this really isn't as fantastic as the rainbows and pretty colors make 
 me believe it is. 
  
  If you really do love Katamari, you'll have fun with this. I've had fun with it. But it's just 
 not as great of a game as it could have been. It's short (more levels = more money) , it's uninspired 
 and it kinda leaves you feeling meh. You're going to have to weigh out your own feelings and other 
 gaming choices to decide on picking up this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  This is my first experience with Katamari, and I was blown away by its unorthodox objectives and 
 uber-creative gameplay. Everything, from the characters, to the story line, to the environments, 
 were fantasticlly intriguing
  and brilliantly deep. A personal favorite feature is the ability to look at each and every kind 
 of item you can acquire; I could have never imagined the sheer number of quirky objects in this 
 game! I also love all of the various cousins! They're so adorable!
  
  As a major fan of collecting, bright colors, and Japanese pop culture, this game was a godsend. 
 Don't let this game pass you by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: straybullet1975
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  It's good, it's fun it's Katamari. Problem is it's beatable in a few hours. There's really only 
 around 4 stages. The tutorial, the candy store, the mansion and outside. That's right. I personally 
 liked the underwater stage from We love Katamari. I think it lost some charm too. Still it is a 
 great game that I continue to play after I've beaten it. I bet that there's going to be some downloadable 
 content coming which should be free in my opinion. After paying what I paid for just 4 stages... irritating. 
 It's also a little odd considering it's cosmic background that you don't go to other planets or 
 anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari puts you in control of The Prince of The Cosmos (know as The Prince from now 
 on) . The King of The Cosmos has sent you to Earth to collect things to stop a massive blackhole 
 from destroying the galaxy... 
  
  So thats exactly what you do - you are sent to different locations with these things called Katamaris 
 (which are just balls that can grow and make things stick to it) . As The Prince, you push these 
 things around and pick up everything in site until you reach the set size limit... and then you 
 can keep going and growing until time runs out. 
  
  Sometimes The King will give you sort of an objective where he will say "I want ot make the Sun, 
 gather lots of energy items." By collecting a lot of energy items you get a higher score which, 
 I think, are put on the leaderboards. I don't know if it does anything else so..
  
  Throughout the levels you can find cousins and presents. The cousins are just different characters 
 you can play as (my favorite being Marny) and the presents are just accessories for your character. 
 They don't do anything except add some style to your person.
  
  Eventually you will get so big you'll wind up rolling stars and planets until your big enough to 
 plug up the blackhole. When you do, you're rewarded with a cut scene of the Katamari going into 
 the black hole, a bunch of different colors and stuff, and then eventually you are invited to play 
 an 8-bit mini-game which isn't really all that fantastic but still somewhat fun.
  
  Sadly though, you'll wind up getting bored of this title very fast. Unlike its predecessors, you'll 
 wind you hitting the same level like 5 or 6 times. Additionally the music is kind of recycled from 
 the older games with the exception of like 4 new songs. And lastly, Beautiful Katamari will last 
 you maybe (if even) 3 or 4 hours.... that is, if you go finding all the cousins and things.
  
  There is a multiplayer, where two players do as much as they can to have their katamari bigger 
 than their opponent's. YOu can ram each other to knock bits and pieces off your foe's katamari, 
 and eventually, picking them & their katamari up. There is also a co-op mode, but its garbage. 
 Two people control one katamari - one person controls going back and fourth, the other controls 
 left or right. The two have to work as a team, and if they cant, then they lose. Its kind of lame.
 
  
  Overall, although Beautiful Katamari is fun at times, the sheer lack of content, level design, 
 soundtrack, and the humor this game is known for, makes this game worth only a rental and not a 
 buy. 7.0/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Armithius
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Having never owned a PS2, I had only had the pleasure of playing Katamari Damacy for a short time 
 at a friend's house, but I was intrigued by it's simple yet addictive game play and its fun and 
 upbeat soundtrack, and I was excited to hear that Beautiful Katamari was being released on the 
 360, and I hoped that I would be able to experience more of the awesome game play that made the 
 first installment so much fun. I was not disappointed.
  
  The game starts with a short story explaining the Universe's latest predicament, and it doesn't 
 take long before you're starting a tutorial/refresher level. The controls are much the same as 
 its predecessors' with a couple changes to suit the Xbox's controller. They can be a little clunky 
 at first if you're not used to them, especially trying to use the dash move, but it's not long 
 before they become second nature.
  
  After the fairly short tutorial level, you're placed on Prince's Planet, and you must begin rolling 
 up katamaris to replace all the planets sucked in by the black hole the King of All Cosmos has 
 created while on vacation with his family. The problem, of course, is that the solar system only 
 has 9 planets, so unfortunately this makes for a relatively short game. In addition to recreating 
 the 9 planets, you are also able to recreate the sun, a comet, a satellite, and at the very end, 
 a supergiant to plug up the black hole. The gameplay for Beautiful Katamari is much the same as 
 the others. You must use your katamari to roll up everyday objects in order to make it bigger and 
 bigger. You must reach a certain size within the time allowed, but of course you don't have to 
 stop rolling until time is up. There are, however a few varations in this game, such as when rolling 
 up Mars, you must roll up hot things while avoiding cold things in order to make your katamari 
 reach the goal of 10,000&ordm; C.
  
  Another interesting level is Uranus. While recreating Uranus, you roll around the King instead 
 of the standard katamari, and he gives you a little background on his life. And even the end credits 
 have a mini game you can play while waiting for them to finish scrolling.
  
  In addition to finishing levels in the allotted time, you also have the chance to search for your 
 lost cousins or presents left behind for you from your parents. Once you have collected your cousins, 
 you are able to play as them as well, and the presents give you accessoires you can use to dress 
 up your character. There's also a point system for each planet. Once you earn 100 points for a 
 particular planet, Unlimited Mode is unlocked, and you are able to replay that planet with no time 
 limit.
  
  As for multiplayer, Beautiful Katamari offers a few options such as 2 player co-op, where both 
 players attempt to control a single katamari to complete the planet requested, 2-player versus, 
 where players compete to gather the most items as requested by the king, and there is also an online 
 multiplayer mode as well. I haven't been able to play it personally, so I'm not sure what it's 
 all about, but if it's anything like the rest of the game you have nothing to worry about.
  
  In summary, though the game is fairly short, the upbeat soundtrack, bright colors, and exciting 
 and addictive game play, along with a high replay value, more than make up for it. This is a great 
 game for both veterans to the Katamari series and beginners alike, and is a game that people of 
 all ages can easily enjoy. All in all, I believe that Namco has produced a fun and enjoyable addition 
 to the Katamari series, and I was certainly pleased with my purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger_tyler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is a difficult beast to grapple review wise, because it's basically just more 
 levels for a game that's been released three times previously. Add to that the fact that it's a 
 brand new console generation and prices have been steadily going up since Katamari Damacy originally 
 hit - leaving this title in the 'budget' range of $39.99.
  
  The graphics are still incredible simple, the gameplay is almost completely untouched and the thing 
 feels even shorter than Me and My Katamari; but this could be due to the cramp the PSP version 
 gave my hands because of the odd controls. Why, then, can I not stop playing the game anytime I 
 pick up a controller?
  
  Because, quite simply, it IS Katamari.
  
  Love it or hate it, the formula (while not fresh) can be incredibly addictive and rewarding. The 
 combination of in game gifts, cousins and now Achievement points makes this package difficult for 
 fans of the series to resist.
  
  With that having been said, if you didn't enjoy previous entries, it's not likely you will enjoy 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Its a game about a little guy who rolls things up into a ball.
  
  Weve had three years to try to understand the appeal to Namco-Bandais game. But the appeal there 
 is undeniable, lying somewhere beneath square-legged children and a prince who wears an armrest 
 as a fashion accessory. Lets face it, when Katamari Damacy was first released on the PS2 back 
 in 2004 it brought a refreshing twist to last generations gaming library: Bright colors replaced 
 the grayscale palette of guns and body armor and instead of shooting at aliens or the denizens 
 of San Andreas, your rolled-up victims faced a much more horrific fate as they were launched into 
 space to become the various planets of the Milky Way Galaxy. The characters were quirky, the music 
 even more so, and with the game priced at a mere twenty bucks, plenty of puzzle gamers and Japanophiles 
 alike rushed out to get their sweaty hands on the title for the holiday season. And when looking 
 at the games various features as a whole package, it seemed difficult not to be intrigued by Katamari 
 Damacy - after all, who doesnt love a drunken king whose idea of a crazy night includes the destruction 
 of an entire galaxy?
  
  And in those three years between the release of Katamari Damacy and today, three sequels have hit 
 store shelves. Not a whole lot has changed in these more recent incarnations; the developers added 
 a multiplayer feature and made slight changes to whatever location youre rolling your katamari 
 through. They have also raised the price so that youre paying twice as much for the 360 version 
 of a game that was essentially released three years prior. Bottom line is, Beautiful Katamari doesnt 
 do much for the series beyond provide some additional income for Namco-Bandai Games. The galaxy 
 is once again destroyed (this time from a black hole ripped into space) , the King of All Cosmos 
 is to blame, and he recruits his pea-sized Prince to rectify the mistake, offering nonsensical 
 advice and tough love in the process. He sends you down to earth to make replacements of all the 
 intergalactic objects he smashed, and you, the green antenna-headed midget, silently oblige. And 
 yes, if youre wondering if this sounds strangely like the game you have sitting on your shelf 
 already, your suspicions would be correct. Its the same plot weve heard in Me &amp; My Katamari, 
 We Love Katamari, and the original game. Its probably the same plot well be hearing in any upcoming 
 games, where the King belches all the planets away, or throws a bowling ball into space, or well, 
 you get the picture.
  
  But no one really buys any of the Katamari games for the story, anyway. The gameplay remains the 
 same as in previous installments: You and your ball begin in an indoor setting and are hell-bent 
 on rolling up other peoples messes. And believe me, theres quite a bit of mess strewn about. 
 If the game gives you any insight into what life in the Land of the Rising Sun is like, it would 
 definitely lead players to believe that you cant walk ten steps without stepping on a bottle of 
 soy sauce, or a stereo, fish, lion, or sumo wrestler who just happens to be walking around the 
 little island your ball sucks up as it rolls by. You essentially begin your missions in one of 
 two locations - in a traditional Japanese candy shop or on an upscale Western estate - and move 
 out from there, taking in famous landmarks and elemental gods as your katamari grows in size. By 
 the time youre assigned to create Schloss Kosmos, youve left the planet and are busy rolling 
 up the stars to create one colossal ball of crap.
  
  One of the major selling points of the game is the fact that so much stuff is hidden in every area, 
 lending to a high replay factor. Each level has a few presents and cousins (little ethereal beings 
 related to the Prince) that you can collect and use, and the game catalogues each thing you roll 
 up in your katamari, from different types of policemen to the various cute objects that are now 
 floating in space. Like in the original game, Beautiful Katamari asks that you roll up specific 
 objects to create the different planets. However, unlike the original game, some of the requests 
 the King of All Cosmos throws out there now are a little less clear-cut. Lets look at an example: 
 In the first game, the King asks that you recreate the more famous constellations, beaming you 
 down to Earth to collect crabs for Cancer and women for Virgo - a fairly straightforward request 
 that doesnt leave much room for a gray area. Does the entity have six legs and two claws? Then 
 its a crab. Does it wear a dress? Then its probably a woman. But in Beautiful Katamari the requests 
 are more vague, like rolling up Japanese things for a comet and objects that produce energy for 
 the Sun. Is a 360 controller considered a cold thing? Is a welcome mat a hot object? Because I 
 swore the game counted it as such when it became stuck to my katamari and I dont know why.
  
  The controls are almost the same as they had been in previous installments, but the 360 controller, 
 with the analog sticks placed in asymmetrical locations, can make for some awkward gaming moments. 
 However, Beautiful Katamari still adheres to a formula that provides for simple gameplay: Move 
 both your sticks in whatever direction you desire to roll your katamari that way, alternate the 
 movement of them to dash forward, and press both analog sticks in to flip over the katamari and 
 happily roll over some elephants, oxen, or trailer homes that were sprinkled around behind you. 
 The environments are enormous and allow you to pick up everything in your path, granted that your 
 ball is big enough, and because the objects are all interactive, the quality of your captured dogs, 
 cats, and schoolchildren will leave something to be desired.
  
  Thats putting it mildly. Now no one was expecting graphics as technically-impressive as, say Gears 
 of War, but the objects in this game are flat and blocky, and some people complained about them 
 when they were used on the PS2 back in the day. This fact may come as a turn-off to some people. 
 No technical progression was made for this installment, save that now you can look at the King 
 of All Cosmos in all his high-definition glory, and with the loading screens taking up so much 
 of your gameplay minutes, youll be spending more time watching his face bounce around on the screen 
 than your katamari picking up things. Which is what the whole point of the game is. Or was.
  
  Other parts of the game feel rehashed and uninspired. The King of All Cosmos still sounds off 
 before every level, though his oddball humor feels forced at times, especially whenever you snap 
 up one of your various cousins. Yes, I get it: My cousin is supposed to be at somersault camp/covering 
 wormholes/off fighting injustice, or whatever, and the joke gets old long before you find relative 
 number forty. Sounds consist of the record scratching that occurs when the King talks, the blip 
 of your katamari rolling over something else, and a wind chime tinkle sounding whenever your ball 
 grows in size. The music is still an odd and amusing infusion of J-Pop, jazz, and electronic elements, 
 so anyone who snapped up the OST to a previous Katamari installment will soon be humming the melodies 
 to this games tracks.
  
  And thats the final line for the entire game: If you liked the previous Katamari games, youll 
 like Beautiful Katamari. But the game will do nothing for people who arent already into the series 
 and actually might disappoint some veteran players who were looking for something original in this 
 installment. The game treads no new territory, and with original designer Keita Takahashi moving 
 on from the series, it may be only a matter of time before we do the same.
  
  Pros:
  - Game continues to be quirky and fun to play, with a small learning curve so that anyone can pick 
 it up and play.
  - Huge environment with plenty of humorous elements scattered about each location.
  - Music is 
 still entertaining and catchy to listen to.
  - Replay is high, with time attack, co-op, and versus modes to dive into, as well as a few dozen 
 cousins and presents to roll up and use.
  - Game will still appeal to fans of the series.
  
  Cons:
  - Game is fairly short, and even after you complete all the different modes, youre 
 still looking at a title that has about ten hours of gameplay to offer.
  - Graphics, although colorful, havent evolved since the PS2; theyre still blocky and flat, which 
 might not appeal to some gamers.
  - Controls can be a little more awkward than on the PS2 since the analog sticks are not symmetrically 
 placed on the 360.
  - Long load times and drops in the frame rate add to players frustration.
  - Requests can be 
 a little bit vague at times, such as when the King asks for you to roll up risky or dangerous 
 objects.
  - Game doesnt have anything new to offer that hasnt already been presented in previous installments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is the best version of Katamari Damacy available. Period. Higher resolution 
 visuals, more cousins, more presents, and more levels than ever before .... Plus, don't forget, 
 even more nonsenical speech from the King Of All Cosmos!
  
  Unfortunately, you have to own an XBOX360 to play it. So if you don't own a 360, go and buy one 
 so you can play this wild and crazy game... (and Halo 3, too, of course!)
  
  The concept is simple : 1. Put on your wacky hat 
  2. Grab your 360 controller
  3. ignore all 
 buttons on the 360 controller
  4. push those analog sticks and ROLL ROLL ROLL !
  
  If you haven't played any of the Katamari games, you are missing a one of a kind gaming experience 
 that feels like a newer, fresher version of Pac-Man. Yes, it's that good.... but it's also really 
 simplistic and one-tracked, which is the only thing wrong with it. However, this version offers 
 more than ever before, so as the title of this review says, it's the BEST so far !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is a unique experience on the Xbox 360. There really isn't another game on the 
 system like it. If you're a fan of the series then you'll probably already want to try this version, 
 but if you were like me and you missed the originals, then this title is definitely worth a look.
 
  
  Beautiful Katamari is on of very few games that really let their Japanese origin shine on the Xbox 
 360. It has a simple animation style that carries through the whole game a looks absolutely, well... 
 beautiful. The music is great and lots of fun to hear while playing. It reminds me of something 
 that would play under the ending credits of a Japanese anime. If you played Animal Crossing several 
 songs sound like the ones sung by Totakeke. The game has a very fun inviting way of doing things. 
 From the game intro to the menus to the world where you'll spend doing most of your time, everything 
 is whimsical and fun.
  
  The game itself revolves around building Katamari at the request of the King of All Cosmos. A katamari 
 is a big sticky ball that seems to gravitationally attract any object it gets near. The objective 
 it to get the katamari as big as possible by rolling over progressively larger objects. A twist 
 to the gameplay comes in the scores for your katamari. Each stage has a time limit and a group 
 of items you're supposed to try to collect a lot of. These could be ocean items, or wheels, or 
 hot stuff. Depending on the overall size of the katamari and the ammount of these items you collect, 
 you'll be given a score. The highest possible score on a stage is 100 and, while the game itself 
 isn't too long, you'll find yourself playing each stage multiple times, and having fun on each 
 attempt.
  
  In addition to the traditional gameplay there are several collecting elements to the game. Each 
 stage has presents and cousins you can unlock. The presents are different accessories you can have 
 your playable character wear. The cousins are all playable characters you can unlock. The new characters 
 and clothing don't change the game at all, but they're fun to collect. The other part of collecting 
 is the different type of items you collect in your katamari balls. The game keeps track of which 
 items you have not yet obtained so you can spend time looking for the ones you're missing and more 
 closely examining the ones you have collected.
  
  What it all comes down to is a very simple game that is rewarding and entertaining. While trying 
 to complete your collection and obtain the highest score, you'll find yourself having lots of fun. 
 There is no other game like this one on the 360 so you'll really have to play it to understand 
 what its all about, but you're bound to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagerlicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Now a days any game that doesn't involve shooting, fighting or driving is bound to call the attention 
 of many.. originality speaks for its self. I have not finished this game.. but i can not put it 
 down, it is very challenging to learn.. but aren't all games challenging at first? like one of 
 the previous comments said. rent it first . (its a lot of fun, but it might be too much work for 
 you.) There are some negative things about this game, 1) when you start playing the game you will 
 see that there is too much explanation in between games.. 2) it gets very repetitive, 3) the camera 
 angles are frustrating, 4) controlling the character is no easy task. This game looks like it was 
 designed for a 4-6 year old, but at this age they wouldn't enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangelove
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  It's sad when you see a game franchise stray from that which makes it so entertaining. Katamar 
 Damacy wasn't about the challenge of the task, it was about the satisfying feeling that comes from 
 rolling a bunch of crap up into a ball. The game was like a vacation from real life and standard 
 gaming. Yes, Beautiful Katamari is too short. Even at it's discounted price, it's a poor value. 
 Yes, it's more of the same... you'll even recognize many of the areas from the very first one. 
 And yes, it does little if anything to capitalize on the Xbox 360's major muscle.
  
  Despite all this, the game's most glaring flaw is its suddenly spiked difficulty. Rolling is relaxing 
 no longer. Levels are claustrophobic and cause hell with the camera, the environments are loaded 
 with moving obstacles that bump you around violently, and the layout of objects to pick up is counter-intuitive 
 to the size of the Katamari and pacing of the game. This adds up to major, major frustration. Oddly, 
 the first one or two levels were the most difficult. Once the game asked me to make a majorly big 
 ball of junk, things seemed easier. But rolling up that first 50cm in 3 minutes? You'll be pulling 
 your hair out.
  
  On the first damn level.
  
  Once you can work past the truly frustrating levels, the game offers the same rolling gameplay 
 the others have presented, for better or worse. Having played the others already, I feel like I 
 spend $40 for a few frustrating hours and some a measly 250 achievement points... the other require 
 tons of re-rolling in levels... those frustrating ones just mentioned. Forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinksandcocaine
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Katamari games. I've been looking forward to BK for quite some time, which makes 
 it all the more saddening to come away with it kind of disappointed.
  
  Sure, it does look better. While none of the models are beyond what the PS2 could do (although 
 this is clearly on purpose -- even textures follow a blocky, angular standard) , there sure seems 
 to be a hell of a lot more on screen at any given point. The added anti-aliasing and HD resolution 
 make it look incredibly clean, which is a plus. On top of that, the added power of the 360 makes 
 the zoom-outs as your Katamari grows completely seamless. This is especially cool when you start 
 small and wind up engulfing the Universe in a single level.
  
  Remarkably, however, the game has slowdown. A surprising amount of it. While it's never game breaking, 
 it becomes significantly more common later on. Given the game's appearance, this is almost just 
 mind-boggling.
  
  Music and sound wise the game keeps up with the previous titles... Many tracks reappear, new ones 
 are added. While I don't think any of the games have matched the soundtrack of the original, it 
 does work well here.
  
  The main issue is that the game does absolutely nothing to expand itself beyond what was presented 
 in We Love Katamari. In fact, it almost seems scaled back.
  
  While new planets appear for you to visit and choose levels from, there simply aren't that many, 
 even when you reach the end of the game. The same handful of area designs are used over and over... 
 which becomes all the more puzzling when you consider that We Love Katamari had more, including 
 some that were used pretty rarely.
  
  Even the concept of picking up certain items isn't really used to a great extent here. There is 
 a level where you have to pick up only hot items, but there's nothing as challenging or as interesting 
 as what was presented in We Love Katamari. Picking up only one bear, gathering fireflies, etc. 
 In some ways it just makes the game feel phoned in. Compounding this is arguably the least interesting 
 story in the series so far, despite some interesting touches regarding the King later on. Multiplayer 
 fares no better. While you can play online now, the co-op mode is still based upon two cousins 
 pushing the same ball. The battle mode is still incredibly limited. It would have been nice to 
 see a traditional co-op mode where both players have their own ball... the 360 certainly could 
 have handled this.
  
  Worst of all, the main core of the game can be completed in almost record time. The PS2 games were 
 relatively short if you just think of beating the main storyline... but there was just far more 
 of interest to do once that point was reached. BK has very little reason to come back and there's 
 only so much reason to care about presents and new cousins... particularly since you'll likely 
 find most of them in your quick run through.
  
  There are a few neat little touches and bits of genius from time to time... The game is still fun, 
 I just know that I would have felt a bit ripped off had I spent $40 on it as opposed to renting 
 it instead. It's fun to run through and then pick up now and again to mess around, but if you have 
 a PS2 stick with We Love Katamari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Svarthek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Now to the untrained eye Beautiful Katamari just seems like a rehash. This is hardly the case since 
 several things were done to change it. First of all, the difficulty was upgraded to be more challenging. 
 Not only to you have to get to a certain size under a strict time limit, but specific objects should 
 be collected in greater quantity to appease the King's rather strict rating system. The thing that 
 really kills this game is not it's graphics or that it's too much like the other games (both of 
 which I wouldn't change) but it's the length of the game. This game is by far the shortest in the 
 series. You will find your self reading credits much quicker than ever before. Not only that, but 
 the lovable soundtrack is either less than lovable or it's songs we've heard before. I found that 
 the new theme song was the only new track among the limited list to be pleasing. Overall, I'd say 
 they got lazy. Which is a great shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is the fourth game in the oh so kooky Katamari series from NamcoBandai. The 
 most distinguishin feature of this one is that the once Sony exclusive series is now on the 360... 
 Exclusively. I've got to say it's a welcome game to the 360 library which has a disticnt lack of 
 Japan crazzy type games.
  
  Beautiful Katamari controls exactly like past entries you push a ball around in each level called 
 a Katamari. By rolling it over objects of similar size it will take it in and add to the mass of 
 the Katamari. Each level typically will have you roll your Katamari to a specific size in under 
 a certain time limit. Your score is normally based on how large your Katamari is at the end of 
 a level and how much of it is made up of certain things. To push the Katamari you use both analog 
 sticks. Say you want to move forward, you would press both analg stick up. If you want to move 
 back, pull both analog stick down. All in all like I said ealier it controls exactly like it did 
 in older Katamari games, and the transition from PS2 to 360 was perfect. It does leave much to 
 be desired though. Some new twists to the gameplay would have been nice. Now it is some what forgivable 
 in such a new game series... But if the next Katamari is exactly the same, expect a lower score.
 
  
  The graphics of Beautiful Katamari have a distict funny Japanese style and charm. But it's really 
 no different looking from the PS2 versions. Maybe if things had been smoothened a little things 
 would have looked a bit nicer. It's no big deal, it's just you'd kinda think there be a more noticeable 
 difference between a PS2 and a 360 game here. Also, there is ocassionally slow down, which make 
 no sense seeing as the game really doesn't push the system's limits.
  
  The soundtrack is one of the finer points of the game. It's just the thing you'd expect from a 
 Katamari game. And of course it's full of goofy sound effects to.
  
  Beautiful Katamari is surprisingly short. You'll be done with the main quest in just a few hours. 
 There is more to do though. You can play through a few of the level in Co-op, try to collect all 
 the objects (good luck to you) , Theres a leader board to boost your incentive, Time attack, you 
 can try and get all the presents and cousins and an online competitive multiplayer. While the multiplayer 
 is fun (especialy the lobby.... Best game loby ever!) it gets old fast. The game is only fourty 
 bucks though which really makes up for most of Beautiful Katamari's downfalls, and with it's much 
 needed personality to the 360 library and the soon to come downloadable content I'd have to say 
 Beautiful Katamari is a great game with some potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Indeed, this is believe it or not, the 3rd Katamari game to be released. You would figure people 
 would be tired of rolling a sticky ball over various object. A once interesting idea is now spun 
 out of control and formed it's own series that will no doubt be coming out with a new one every 
 year. Reviewers beware!
  
  So here you are again as Prince Katamari and you are attempting to gather items from earth for 
 your rather strange father how is a King. Basically I feel that the developers of this game were 
 on LSD when they created this game. There are lots of color, strange animations, funny sounding 
 voices and quirky things to pick up. But that doesn't actually make a good game. Let alone 3 games!
 
  
  The graphics are cell shaded, quirky and colorful. The animation is rather still and the lighting 
 and shadowing is rather dull. In other words I have seen MUCH batter cell shaded graphics. So don't 
 expect a huge leap forward in this type of game. The controls are kind of shoddy and rather difficult 
 to get used to. It's hard to get Princey to move around once he stops. It's also rather difficult 
 to turn him around to go another path. In other words the game is kind of klunky to play. The music 
 is really annoying and the sounds are even more so. Although they are original, they are really 
 annoying. Just put the game on mute and play with a little GnR in the back ground.
  
  Children may enjoy this game, and nostaligic gamers looking for simpler time. Also a good pick 
 up for casual gamers. But this game has been done before and it's over. Time to move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertWrek
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Katamari at its finest. Contrary to what the review said, this is exactly what we have all 
 been waiting for. Finally, a Katamari where you get to pick up everything. Complete and total. 
 I am now content.
  
  
  Well, i was going to leave it at that cause lets face it, the one thing you always say at the end 
 of Katamari is, 'That's it?' It always stops you right before you start picking up literally everything, 
 but this one.... oh no! This bad boy makes you do it. Pick it all up! I won't say exactly how much 
 you do pick up, but you do feel complete after this one, thats for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  I don't know what in the world Namco Bandai was smoking when they thought of Katamari, but I want 
 some! They created perhaps the most insane, quirky, and amusing game franchise of all time.
  
  What's a Katamari you ask? Its a ball. You (The Prince of All Cosmos, or one of his many, MANY 
 cousins) must roll it around and pick stuff up. Sounds boring right?
  
  Guess again, because when I say roll stuff up, I don't mean just snow or carpet. I mean everything 
 you could possibly imagine, and then some.
  
  The game looks very odd and polygonal, like its graphics came from the N64 or something. But it 
 matters very little, because rolling up school children, gorillas, ice cream cones, ice cream clouds, 
 penguins, houses, cars, countries, robots, pizza, gold bars, planets, and stars is just so darn 
 fun. I probably didn't even get 1% of the list of possible things to roll up in that last paragraph, 
 by the way.
  
  The music is just as strange as the game, but its catchy, and listening to strange Japanese tunes 
 is a great way to compliment the most bizarre game ever made.
  
  Controls are a little awkward to get used to, but give them about 10 minutes and you'll be rollin' 
 up giraffes and cars like nobody's business.
  
  The play value is a bit on the small side, but oh well. It's Katamari, who cares!?
  
  Obviously 
 not everyone will appreciate this insanity and weirdness that is Beautiful Katamari, but I like 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluorb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, so enjoy!
  Before I start my review, I have to say that my views are bias. I really love Katamari. But to 
 be fair, I am going to compare against other Katamari games and consider that this game is running 
 on a much more powerful game system than the previous games.
  
  Control: Great.
  I have heard a few negative comments about the 360 analog sticks being at different levels, but 
 I made the transition between the PS2 and the 360 controllers pretty much instantly. It does seem 
 to make it a little bit more difficult to do the dash move. On the other hand, I used to accidentally 
 flip all the time while trying to dash on the PS2, but not at all on the 360. Also, I think I bruised 
 my thumbs (seriously) the first day I played Beautiful Katamari, which never happened on PS2. Beyond 
 the physical controller, the games responsiveness to the controller seems to have been tightened 
 up a bit too. Graphics: Were they ever that good?
  I am disappointed that especially visually stunning levels like the firefly / flower / rose levels 
 were not included. I always liked the overly beautiful levels that were sometimes hypnotic with 
 relaxing imagery. So soothing. Seriously, there were no beautiful levels in Beautiful Katamari, 
 except for a certain level at the end I cant say which one but you will know it when you see it. 
 I mean, this is a new system, couldnt you guys have tried have tried some new visual tricks in 
 the game?
  
  Innovation: Um kinda?
  The new objective system in the game is actually pretty cool. Now, instead of just trying to roll 
 a huge Katamari, you also need to get a large percentage of a various item groups. For instance, 
 some stage objectives include: Rich, Ocean, Japan, Snack, and Plant. These groups are sometimes 
 general terms so many items can fall in the category. If you dont get a large percentage of that 
 item, you dont fail the stage; you just get a low score. This score is separate from the score 
 you receive from the size of the Katamari. The number of items (and size of the items?) from the 
 given group determines your score. Eternal mode is back, I dont want to tell you how to get it, 
 but it is back. The high score system allows up to 10 high scores to be saved. It plays out well 
 visually in later levels. No loading times after the initial loading time, but that isnt really 
 innovative. Story: Compared to other Katamari games weak.
  There is no real story beyond the initial tennis video. Gimme some crazy cut scenes!!!
  
  Fun: 
 Yes. Ok, so I love to roll stuff up. This game has a greater level of maturity in the level designs 
 and layout of items. The levels are designed well and easy to navigate. Some of the item configurations 
 are pretty funny and fun to roll up. Tons of cousins, presents, and weird things to do in the home 
 section of the game (where the player makes level selections) .
  
  Replayability: Tons.
  I think this game is really built on replay. No one is going to do everything on the first pass 
 through the game. For that matter, even after the 10th pass on every level, there will undoubtedly 
 be new things to find. With all the configuration of cousins and present items, changing your character 
 keeps the non-level part of the game fun. Eternal mode allows the player to really explore the 
 levels. So, yes, its repayable. .
  
  Summary: Get it. Well worth the money.
  At this point I am 96% complete and I purchased the game exactly 95 hours ago, so it is unfortunately 
 a short game. Dont think that the average player will finish the game to this degree in the span 
 of 4 days; Im a bit of a fiend for the Katamari. The sad reality is the average player who is 
 already familiar with Katamari could easily complete all requests, including time trials and the 
 final stage, in 5-7 hours, but doesnt mean the game is over. If you are like me, I will try to 
 collect all the items in the game and unlock eternal mode for all the levels. There are also 2 
  4 scheduled downloadable levels, which can be purchased, and I cant wait. It sucks that they 
 were not just included in the game (since it looks like they were on the disc to start with) , 
 but at $40 for the game, I dont mind forking out a bit more to get the rest. For all I care, keep 
 pumping out the Katamari games, and I will keep rolling them up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukonCornelius6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful Katamari is the third game in the Katamari franchise. After playing the fantastic games 
 Katamari Damacy and We Love Katamari on the Playstation 2, I was very excited to see what this 
 franchise could do on a great next gen system like the XBOX 360. With more processing power and 
 better online capabilities, the XBOX 360's version of Katamari should be far superior to the other 
 PS2 games...
  If you haven't played a Katamari game, let me bring you to speed a bit. You are the Prince of All 
 Cosmos and in every game you father, The King of All Cosmos, has done something to lose all the 
 stars in the solar system, island in the ocean, or something else absolutely ridiculous. So you 
 have to help him by rolling huge katamaris to replace what's missing. Pretty much, you roll a sticky 
 ball around to collect things. You have to become bigger to collect the biggest things though. 
 It's sounds out there and it is, but if you play it, you'll understand how fun it is.
  ---Gameplay:
  Most importantly, the innovative and fantastic gameplay of the PS2 games have transfered 
 very well to the 360. Actually, I could argue the gameplay is better. I did notice with very large 
 Katamaris that it is alot easier to move around. Before, it felt very sluggish and felt like you 
 had to get alot of momentum to get it going. Overall, this makes the games later stages even more 
 fun. ---Graphics:
  Ehh... maybe they're a little improved, but not much. The rainbow at the end of the levels looks 
 great, but that's about it. It looks very similar to the PS2's editions. ---Sound:
  More great japanese pop music. You'll play through a level once or twice and have these weird songs 
 in your head. They used a great mix of new songs and songs from the old games. You're favorites 
 are all there, plus there are some new great tunes.
  ---Replay-ability:
  You'll still want to replay these crazy levels just to see what kind of ridiculous things you can 
 roll up. Also in this new edition brings you Online Multiplayer, Online Co-Op, and of course Achievements. 
 So you will get a little bit more out of this game than the older ones. Unfortunately, the online 
 play seems a bit rushed. So, it just isn't that fun.
  ---Achievements:
  I only have one problem witht the achievements. I think they're set up fine, not great, but fine. 
 The only problem is that from the first time you put Beautiful Katamari in your XBOX 360 it says 
 that there are 1250 achievement points available in it. Execpt there's on 1000 available. So that 
 means they have downloadable content that's already been made, but its not on the disc. I don't 
 care if I have to pay for it or not, I do not understand why this content is not on the disc. This 
 is just stupid.
  ---Overall:
  Beautiful Katamari is another chapter in the Katamari franchise that really isn't a huge step foreward. 
 It's still just as fun as the old ones, but it feels like you're playing a Playstation 2 generation 
 game on an XBOX 360. Great gameplay, sound, and idea are the same things that have been keeping 
 this franchise going for years, so it would be nice if they maybe did something crazy and different 
 for once. Overall though, Beautiful Katamari is a game I would recommend to anyone that has or 
 has not ever play a Katamari game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladepkerlol
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  i agree with flawless if youve never played this then you sort of dont no what your doing but it 
 is a simple as bakeing a pie ... though the longer you play it it get boring because at some points 
 your just doing the same thing over and over. i have say though the originall is better in some 
 ways because it was the first one so of course but i still think they could of done better. but 
 i have to write a hundred words so i going to boring now how do you keep an idiot busy go back 
 and between the lines . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbfess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  if your new to the genre, it will captivate you. if you've played before, there isnt much new to 
 offer. either way, the gameplay is amazing. The multiplayer is a bit lacking and the graphics dont 
 really take advantage of whats offered to them by the 360. The fact is, you will find yourself 
 playing this game at 3 in the morning not bored at all. Thats a rare genre if you ask a person 
 like myself. 20-40 hours of gameplay depends... some will play longer, others will pick this game 
 up and want to put it down. boo to those people. cause this is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Okay so the basis of Katamari is you roll stuff up into a ball. THATS IT. Very simple, and honestly 
 on paper, it sounds pretty stupid. Well, it is stupid, but stupid in a fantastic way. Katamari 
 while so simple had one of the biggest charms in any game today. Between the unique visuals, the 
 great soundtrack, and the weird characters you can't help but not fall in love with any Katamari 
 game.
  
  Beautiful Katamari is no different. You are once again the prince and the fabulous King of all 
 Cosmos gives you the task of rolling crap up into a ball to make stars again. I wonder what the 
 original japanese story is (in the first one the japanese game had the king getting hammered and 
 knocking the stars down) Anyways, thats it. The end. You roll stuff up. Sometimes you'll have to 
 roll up stuff to get it to a certain size or you'll have to roll up certain things. Either way 
 it's fun.
  
  New additions to Beautiful Katamari are downloadable content and online multiplayer. The DLC is 
 stuff like presents new cousins (playable characters) and most importantly stages. You're going 
 to need to download the stages if you want to get all 1250 of the achievement points. Online is 
 just like the offline component of the game where you just roll around seeing who can make a bigger 
 katamari and so on. The online lobby is a lot like Dead or Alive 4s, where you have your little 
 avatar and can run around pushing balls and stuff. The controls are well translated over to the 
 360. Some PS2 Katamari players were skeptical as to how the dual analog control would work since 
 the sticks aren't right next to each other, but I can say after playing a while you don't even 
 recognize it. The one bad thing for the controls are, for a simple game they're complicated and 
 can be an annoyance for new players. But that being said, once you get the controls you really 
 GET them.
  
  Visuals are pretty much the same. It doesn't look like a 360 game but then again, Katamari never 
 will. Katamari isn't about high res textures and all that, its about funny weird colors and blocky 
 looking people. So you can't knock the game on graphics (it is HD though)
  
  Audio, is amazing. The soundtrack has a bunch of new songs that are just ridiculous and fun. Katamari 
 games just keep on pumping out more and more crazy audio for them.
  
  In the end Beautiful Katamari is really just another Katamari game, but that isn't a bad thing 
 at all. The score I give this game is completely irrelevant to the amount of fun I have with it. 
 This is one of my favorite 360 games, and the score is just a technicality. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
