-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bee Movie Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/beemoviegame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dogfighting wasps and dodging cars as a bee is neat.
 Two dozen different jobs and minigames to kill time with.
 The bee's-eye slant given to the humor and visuals is interesting.
 Good for younger players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions and minigames won't challenge anyone past their teen years.
 Graphics don't push any of the systems the game is on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Beenox
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Younger players will enjoy the variety and sandbox-style freedom of Bee Movie Game. 

  Anyone too far over the age of 10 probably won't get much out of Bee Movie Game, but the younger 
 children in your household just may delight in its sweet flavor. The gameplay isn't complicated. 
 In fact, it's usually downright simple. However, the various missions and minigames offer plenty 
 of different things to do, while the cheerful presentation and humor go a long way toward making 
 every minute spent with the game enjoyable.  

  In this sandbox-style game, players take control of a honeybee named Barry B. Benson -- voiced by 
 Jerry Seinfeld -- and interact with the people and places of New Hive City while completing missions 
 based on scenes from the movie. In the city, you can take various jobs, goof around with stand-alone 
 arcade games, and collect new outfits and cars to doll Barry up in. Outside the city, you'll embark 
 on missions that involve pollinating flowers, navigating torrential rain showers, terrorizing humans, 
 and trading stinger fire in airborne battles with enemy wasps.  

           Bee Movie Game recaps the movie while also letting players explore the locations and jobs 
 contained in New Hive City.      

  Of course, honeybees don't like to walk around. They like to fly! That's the key difference between 
 the Bee Movie Game and other movie-inspired video games. The 21 different missions that take place 
 outside the hive are set in large 3D environments that you fly around in. In some of them, you 
 fly around freely and use Barry's pollen gun to shoot at wasps and to transfer pollen from healthy 
 flowers to those in need of rejuvenation. A  Matrix -style bullet time effect lets you slow the 
 action down in order to line up precise shots. It also comes in handy when rain is falling, allowing 
 you to see and dodge individual raindrops. In other missions, Barry follows his flight path automatically, 
 but you have to quickly press the indicated directions and buttons when the prompts appear in order 
 to help him avoid hazards along the way. These interactive Dragon's Lair-style missions depict 
 thrilling flights through traffic-heavy New Hive streets and battles against deranged humans armed 
 with such deadly implements as rolled-up newspapers and shoes.  

  The missions have to be played in order, at least at first, but you can partake of everything else 
 at your leisure. And there's quite a bit of everything else to waste time with inside the hive. 
 You can drive cars around and take jobs that involve racing, delivering food, or shuttling other 
 bees to various destinations. Driving recklessly in the Crazy Taxi-inspired taxi driver game is 
 a riot. Other job sites around the hive let you participate in minigames that involve fixing cars, 
 collecting honey, pouring honey, and packaging honey. When you're not killing time working, you 
 can visit the arcade and play six simple  Bee Movie -inspired games that are eerily reminiscent 
 of classics like Space Invaders, Frogger, and Galaga. In all, there are more than two dozen activities 
 to try, and they all offer multiple challenge levels.  

  Basically, Bee Movie Game is an age-appropriate take on the Grand Theft Auto formula. Instead of 
 the mean streets of Vice City, players freely wander a colorful replica of New Hive City. You can 
 explore the hive, talk to people, and take jobs at your leisure. In turn, those jobs give you money 
 that you can use to buy clothes for Barry to wear, cars to fill his garage with, and arcade games 
 to play. When you feel like tackling a mission, all you need to do is visit Barry's house to move 
 the story along.  

  Though clearing the skies of wasps and watching Barry dodge cars is exciting, the missions do start 
 to feel repetitive after a while. They're not terribly challenging, either, since the only major 
 penalty for running out of health or pressing the wrong button during an automatic flight sequence 
 is that you'll have to do a tiny portion of the mission over again. Inside the hive, the jobs and 
 minigames are kind of simplistic. The crane-based honey-gathering game merely entails moving the 
 directional stick to steer the crane and pressing a button to grab the honey capsules. When you're 
 driving a car, the controls let you steer, accelerate, and reverse. The racing challenges add power-ups, 
 such as bee missiles and honey puddles, to the mix. Unfortunately, the CPU opponents are easy to 
 overtake and don't use items very well. On the whole, the game is definitely geared toward younger 
 players who likely won't spend much time with any one single task, and who probably won't mind 
 that the tasks are simple and only occasionally challenging.  

           Story missions involve aerial combat against wasps and interactive scenes where you press 
 buttons to avoid hazards.      

  The game's graphics don't push the visual capabilities of any of the systems it's on, but New Hive 
 City is a colorful, cheerful place. The different wax-sculpted buildings look exotic, and the city 
 is loaded with bees walking on the sidewalks, driving cars, and mingling with one another. Outside 
 the hive, the different locations in New Hive City are expansive and richly detailed. Parks have 
 streams, flower beds, and frogs. City streets have benches, trash bins, and cars that you can use 
 to shield yourself from the rain. If you notice a human walking by with an umbrella, you can take 
 cover under it. One mission takes place inside a three-room apartment, where you have plenty of 
 furniture to navigate and three angry humans to watch out for. The flight sequence missions depict 
 intense scenes in which Barry is ducking under multiple oncoming vehicles and dodging humans and 
 animals alike. These scenes seamlessly mix game-engine graphics and video footage to make it seem 
 as if the game console is pushing way more polygons and objects than it's capable of.  

  All the while, the music varies between whimsical and dramatic, and there's oodles of spoken dialogue. 
 The humor is aimed at kids, so you probably won't find any of it funny if you're beyond grade school. 
 However, the actors' deliveries, particularly that of Jerry Seinfeld, come across as natural and 
 upbeat.  

  The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 2 versions of the game are virtually identical. Sure, the graphics 
 in the 360 version are cleaner and more detailed, but the PlayStation 2 serves up the same environments 
 with only a slight downgrade in draw distance and animation smoothness. The Wii version looks practically 
 identical to the PS2 version, though the cutscene video is poorly compressed and extremely grainy 
 looking. Normally that wouldn't be such a big deal, but Bee Movie Game frequently juxtaposes gameplay 
 and video, and often blends the two together. Those thrilling chase scenes that are packed with 
 oncoming vehicles seem a lot less thrilling when the cars and road are made up of polygons one 
 moment and grainy footage the next.  

  In terms of content, every version of the game lets a second player join in for certain arcade 
 games and races. The 360 version levies the Xbox Live service to let you compare your scores against 
 those of other players, but its two-person multiplayer is limited to offline matches only, so there's 
 no advantage there. The Wii version of the game includes four extra minigames and three additional 
 racetracks that the other two versions don't have. Navigating the hive is much easier in the Wii 
 version of the game, because the developers placed signs that tell you where everything is located, 
 and they implemented kiosks that let you select jobs and then point you exactly where you need 
 to go to do them.  

           At the hive, you can explore, buy items, and play a wide variety of minigames.      

 
  Lastly, the controls in the Wii version were modified to make use of the controller's pointer 
 and motion-sensing capabilities. You'll often have to shake the remote or Nunchuk to interact with 
 objects, and the pointer is used for aiming and activating hot spots during the interactive flight 
 sequences. On the Xbox 360 and PS2, you just press the button displayed on screen. On the Wii, 
 a target appears instead, which you have to aim at and press B to activate. These Wii-specific 
 control enhancements take longer to get used to than simply pushing buttons, but they add a layer 
 of interactivity to the experience that the 360 and PS2 versions don't have.  

  You shouldn't hesitate to check out Bee Movie Game if you have children in the house who you think 
 would enjoy spending time in Barry B. Benson's universe. Indeed, Bee Movie Game is one of those 
 rare video games developed with younger players in mind that doesn't totally suck. You won't feel 
 compelled to play it for hours (or possibly even at all) , but your kids or younger siblings will. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Raefx8
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  It was my girlfriends birthday and I decided to purchase Bee Movie Game for the XBOX 360, since 
 she constantly called my 360 a "Boys" system. But the next thing you know, there I am hooked on 
 playing this childs game. 
  
  When I origianlly played the Demo off of Marketplace, I was'nt to impressed. But after playing 
 the actual full leangth game. It is a super fun game for sure! The story mode is pretty clever 
 with the "Button Order" style gameplay, but what really makes this game thrive is the mini game 
 fest you will have while unlocking each chapter in story mode.
  
  If you are highly addicted to collecting achievement points, like I am, then this game is totally 
 for you. At first everything may come off as "super simple" but if you really tried to collect 
 all the badges then your in for one heck of a challenge. 
  
  The 360 has a wide variety of top notch FPS's but after a while, when you get blown out on Halo 
 3 and Call of Duty 4 or FPS's in general, give Bee Movie Game a shot. It was a game that just plain 
 out entertained me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I haven't seen the movie, nor have I played a game based on an animated movie before. I do know 
 that movie-to-game adaptations aren't supposed to be that great, so I had low expectations for 
 Bee Movie Game. I rented it because IGN game it a good score and because Assassins Creed wasn't 
 available to rent. So I rented Bee Movie Game because I was desperate. I'm content I rented it 
 because it turned out to be surprisingly good. 
  
  I'll start with the "design". You are in the city (hive) of bees, and after completing a certain 
 number of tasks you do a "movie level". Overall, it's very similar to the recent Spiderman and 
 Transformer games. The number of tasks you can do around the city are large, but you don't need 
 to do all of them. You sometimes may want to do them all, though because some can be pretty fun. 
 After you do what you need to do, the real levels begin. These range from pollinating flowers while 
 flying and fighting off Dragonflies to "quick button sequences" similar to Resident Evil 4 as well 
 as the ten other games that also copied it. You also have to navigate through rain by zooming through 
 air currents. All these activities are the game's highlights. There is also multiplayer, but I 
 haven't tried it yet. So the design of the game gets an 8. 
  
  Now to the gameplay. I'll start off with the pros, and then I'll go into the many cons. Okay, so 
 since the game is meant for little tikes, it's fitting that movement and navigation is as simple 
 as can be. Navigating the hive is funfor the first time. Don't except a large spacious lively 
 city that you can blow up and destroy as well as interact much with (this isn't Grand Theft Auto) . 
 It's kinda small, though most won't realize it since every block looks EXACTLY like the last, with 
 NO landmarks and nothing to distinguish each street, road, or building. It is divided in two sections. 
 First being the city/neighborhood section, and the second being the highway. Yes, the second section 
 is really just a bunch of roads. 
  
  The highway is pretty hard to navigate through, since the roads go under, over and past each other. 
 The map they give you doesn't help whatsoever. Each of the activities are spread throughout the 
 city, and range from pizza delivery, racing, being a taxi driver, fixing cars, among 20 other things. 
 It's cool that there is a lot of them, but after trying each once, they get pretty bland, and since 
 they are as easy as heck, they are no challenge. It is also hard to find them in the city. You 
 can talk to fellow bees, and each would say either of 5 random things such as "Hi", "Do you know 
 who you're talking to?" or "I have no time to talk". Also, each gender seems to have the same voice. 
 To get around faster, you can hop into random cars on the road (I guess bees have no problem with 
 other bees stealing their cars) or you can buy your own with honey (the unimaginative currency 
 in the game) . There are about 6 different cars you can buy. Each one is VERY expensive, except 
 one, but it is less cool than the cars you can hijack anyway. 
  
  There is also an Arcade somewhere in the city, but the games are rip-offs of classic games, which 
 wouldn't be bad, but they are bad rip-offs. So far the town seems to be a very bad element in the 
 game, but if you don't treat it as an interactive world, and more as a very cool menu replacement, 
 it's manageable. In the main story levels, you fly, which is different from the walking that's 
 in the Hive. Flying is very, very clunky and hard to get used to, but once you get the hang of 
 it, it could be cool. There are few games where you can fly freely around, so it's not so much 
 that it is handled well in the game, but more that it is fresh, making it fun. 
  
  Pollinating flowers and fighting other insects requires no skill. You'd think that fighting other 
 creatures would be fun, but it's not as fun as it sounds. You just tap a button when your near 
 them, and you automatically shoot honey at them that follows the enemies until they are hit. Like 
 I said earlier, it requires no skill. A caveman could do it. Further more, pollinating is repetitive 
 at the beginning, but after a while, it gets a little fun. You also have to fly through rain (which 
 hurts you) and use you "Bee Vision". Bee Vision slows down time, and makes the rain slow down to. 
 The rain looks similar to the slowed down rain in The Matrix Revolutions, and the recent game, 
 TimeShift. It looks pretty neat.
  
  The weird thing is that you don't really have a health meter, and it could get annoying. I came 
 to the conclusion that the health is like that of Call of Duty's. If you continually get hit by 
 rain, you die, but if you get hit every once in a while, you don't die. The third Movie Level's 
 gameplay element is the times button press sequences. You have plenty of time to do press the buttons 
 when they appear, and while the scenes turns out to be pretty cool, it just seems like the developers 
 put them in there because they couldn't make the certain scene work as a regular level. 
  
  Now, for the more negative. There are a number of glitches. Some where you can't move, where dialogue 
 overlaps, where there are invisible walls where they're aren't supposed to be, and where the camera 
 goes crazy. These are most abundant on the pollinating/flying levels, which get disorienting. So, 
 including everything I said, I will put the gameplay at a solid 6. 
  
  Okay, now that I'm done with the actual gameplay, I'll move on to the presentation. If I didn't 
 know that this was a 360 game I would've thought it was on the PS2. It has Wii graphics at best, 
 and believe it or not, PS1 graphics at worse. There is nothing graphically impressive, but also 
 nothing that's very terrible to look at. The game's story is pretty funny at times, but it's just 
 because it taken from a funny movie. I usually skip the cutscenes since I haven't seen the whole 
 movie, but in the scenes not straight from the movie, there are voices that sound like they are 
 from the real actors. I don't know if the lines are taken from the movie, or if they were recorded 
 just for the game, but they sound alright. The sound effects are very forgettable, as is the music 
 whish repeats over, and over, and over, and over. So I'll give the presentation a 6.5. 
  
  This game sound very bad, but that's just because I pointed out the negatives for 99% of the review. 
 It really isn't that bad. Yes, it has it's share of many problems, but I had fun with this game. 
 It really is better than the sum of it's parts. It's not a game that you'll want to keep for over 
 a month, and I won't recommend it to anyone over the age of 11, but that's not to say it isn't 
 fun. If you have a young brother or sister that likes the movie, they'll most likely like the game. 
 So, taking in consideration the design, gameplay, and presentation, I give the Bee Movie Game a 
 6 out of 10. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
