-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beijing 2008 - The Official Video Game of the Olympic Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/beijing2008theofficialvideogameoftheolympicgames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Detailed athletes.
 Good online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Archaic, blister-causing controls.
 Way too difficult.
 Only 32 countries, with no real participants.
 Level-up system goes against reality.
 Lousy tutorials.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 5.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 376 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Eurocom Ent.
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: Jul 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beijing 2008 proves beyond a doubt that rapidly pushing buttons is not fun. 

  Who knew qualifying for the Olympics could be so difficult? Instead of a worldwide competition 
 crafted around ideas that fit in with the modern gaming landscape, this is just an archaic compilation 
 of mostly old, painful gameplay techniques that wore out their welcome decades ago. Not only do 
 many of Beijing's events focus on the sadistic control method of rapidly tapping two buttons until 
 your fingers burn, but the unfathomable difficulty of the early rounds makes the experience almost 
 as grueling as training for the real thing. The few redeeming elements only squirt a few drops 
 of perfume on the overwhelming stench of the rest of this game.  

  Though all 36 events in Beijing 2008 have some problem, the biggest issue is the ridiculous attributes 
 system you use to level up your team during the qualifying rounds. For some reason, you control 
 a group of athletes who are slow, weak, and embarrassingly out of shape. By winning qualifying 
 events, you can pump points into categories such as power, speed, and stamina. This is in sharp 
 contrast to real life, where competitors show up to the games fully prepared to face off against 
 the best in the world. If you fail to achieve the goal for the day (such as placing in three of 
 the five chosen events) , you are branded a failure and have to start that day all over again. Since 
 you are athletically inferior to all of your opponents, you'll find yourself bringing up the rear 
 over and over again.  

           The high jump is just a simple rhythm game here.      

  Every event in Beijing 2008 that involves racing is agonizing. The 11 swimming and running events 
 all require you to repeatedly slam on the buttons to gain speed, which is not only painful but 
 fairly unresponsive as well. Anything that requires pure speed -- such as the 100-meter dash -- is 
 nearly impossible. After you take your mark, you'll have to anxiously wait for the starter pistol 
 to blast before you can begin. The problem is, there are no audio or visual indicators to tell 
 you when the gun will fire. You have to keep count in your head, which means you will often find 
 yourself starting well after the rest of the pack or suffering a disqualification for jumping too 
 soon. Cycling has the honor of being the worst of the included racing challenges. You have to rotate 
 both analog sticks for more than four consecutive minutes, a technique that is the polar opposite 
 of fun.  

  Other sports have their real-life depth completely stripped away, replaced with a mediocre rhythm 
 game. Most of the gymnastics program suffers from this insultingly simple mechanic, making them 
 not only far too easy for anyone familiar with the genre, but extremely repetitive as well. There 
 are only three different routines (easy, medium, and hard) , so there is little reason to partake 
 in these endeavors more than a couple times. The high jump is a mirror image of the floor exercise, 
 which shows how ill-advised this control scheme is. The diving events ask you to spin the analog 
 sticks to match the balls circling your diver. Not only is this extremely tedious, it in no way 
 captures the extreme focus needed by real-life competitors. These shallow excursions are so distant 
 from the real thing it's almost laughable.  

  Even the tutorial is a failure in Beijing 2008. The rules of judo are never explained, so you'll 
 have to figure out on your own what terms such as "yuko" and "ippon" mean. Not that it matters 
 much -- you'll just be matching directional arrows most of the time. The skeet-shooting tutorial 
 tells you to pull the trigger to fire but never explains how to actually hit the clay pigeon. You'll 
 have to figure out on your own that you have to swing your gun while you fire and, unlike in real 
 life, you're not supposed to lead the target. The pathetic learning tools make these simple events 
 overly complicated.  

  There are some events that are utterly impossible even after you learn the necessary strategies 
 and level up your athlete. Kayak is a cruel joke. You have no control over your tiny watercraft. 
 Even if you somehow manage to pass through the appropriate gate, the game often won't register 
 your success. Table tennis is just as pointless. Your giant body covers up an insanely high percentage 
 of the table, making it impossible to see the ball if it's coming directly at you. A higher camera 
 angle or translucent character would have fixed this problem, but in its current form, it's painfully 
 bad.  

           It's easy to miss when you can't even see the ball.      

  For all the gameplay faults in Beijing 2008, at least the graphics are fairly sharp. The athletes 
 are large, detailed, and animated well enough to make you believe for a moment that someone really 
 is running a 15-second 100-meter dash in real life. The pre- and postevent replays and posturing 
 by the competitors shows off their fine detail, but the monotony of seeing the same canned animations 
 every time only makes this superfluous eye candy another annoyance. Having to tap buttons during 
 the competitions is bad enough; doing it before and after every event merely to skip through the 
 worthless extras is just excruciating.  

  If you enjoy laughing at others' failures, there is a modicum of fun to be had in the multiplayer 
 mode. Either online or off, you can choose exactly which events you wish to compete in; but like 
 everything else in this game, this comes with its own drawbacks. The majority of these events are 
 turn-based, so you'll spend most of your time simply watching other people curse and fail. Plus, 
 the game isn't smart enough to ensure direct competition in one-on-one events. If you play two-player 
 table tennis, you'll each have to defeat a few computer-controlled opponents before you can square 
 off against each other.  

  Even if you're chomping at the bit to compete in these seldom-seen sports, you should still avoid 
 this game. There is not one event that offers a genuinely fun, rewarding experience. Beijing 2008 
 is horrendous regardless of how many people you're playing with or what event you're trying to 
 win.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  So beijing 2008 is based obviously on the olympic games where you get the chance to take part in 
 many olympic events from running to table tennis.
  Events also include swimming, diving, gymnastics, shooting, archery, weight lifting, long jump, 
 judo, cycling, kyaking, triple jump, high jump, shot put and many many more.
  
  In one player the game is dull, this is mianly because of the controls, most events include hacking 
 buttons to gather up speed or some sort of timing based idea where you have to click the triggers 
 in time with your atheletes feet etc..
  
  But in multiplayer you forgot about it and have a lot more fun, especially in splitscreen 4 player 
 mode.
  
  Graphics are average for the 360, water details are great, especially in the swimming and kyaking 
 events.
  
  Of course some events are better than others, for example, running is well designed and simple, 
 but then there are events like judo which overcomplicate things and even the tutorial can't help 
 you understand.
  
  
  Achievments are also really fun- you get a real sense of achievment when you acctually get one.
 
  They usually include breaking world and olympic records.
  
  Thanks for reading this review- hope it's helped you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player- The single player is awesome. You can pick to do individual events, or olympic 
 mode. This is really fun, making you do all the events at least once. Overall, 8.5 /10
  
  2) Multiplayer- actually quite nice, competitive MP, just not too many people online... : ( 7/10
 
  
  3) Graphics- Pretty good graphics on 360 ,havent notice any real frame rate issues. in fact i really 
 like the graphics 8.5/10
  
  4) Sound- The sound is ok, nothing special, the music can be quite annoying at the menus. 7/ 10
 
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are fine. The game plays out very nicely. its basically button 
 mashing for the running events and analog sticks for the others. i have got a few blisters in my 
 time playing this, so beware 9/10
  
  6) Achievements- For those who are interested the achievements are pretty good, and require you 
 to actually be good, some are challenging
  
  Overall, the game is worth a look. It definetely donest deserve a 3/10. at least a 7 i think You 
 can replay it many times and you wont get bored of it,. Overall score, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Beijjing is very good online but not very good on the career thats where i thought it got letdown 
 on. About the multiplayer i thought personnally it is excellent because there is a range of stuff 
 to do e. g cycling, javeling. so i liked the online. But on the career isnt so good because the events 
 are hard and even though you can watch a tutorial the people who you are up against are very hard. 
 i rated 6.5 because i liked the online because it has lots of stuff to do but i thought the career 
 wasnt so good. 
  SO IF YOU WONT TO GO AND BUY IT I WOULDNT RECOMMEND YOU  :-------------------) 
 I 
  
  HOPE YOU HAVE EJOYED MY REVIEW SEND ME A MESSAGE IF YOU WANT TO NO  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Beijing 2008 is another one of those games where you play it for a week or two, beat the game or 
 get bored of it then lock it away and never play it again.
  
  It's another just a party game really. Its alright for a short time then gets boring after a while 
 so this game doesn't offer much replay value. The biggest problem with the Beijing is how the control's 
 work and in this case there mutilating, **** atrocious. I will tell you now that if you play any 
 of the running events then your gonna have a few blisters on your hands in the morning. Basically 
 what you do is get the joy stick and just and move is left and right repeatedly as fast as you 
 can. However is you just do it with your fingers then your gonna go pretty slow, you have to place 
 the palm of your hand on the top of the joy stick and mash it left and right for about 15 seconds 
 in a 100m sprint race. Try it now, with you xbox controller, hurts right? Aside from the horrible 
 control, this game can actually be pretty fun sometimes, there are diffrent events that involve 
 a time based mini games that you have to pres the right button at the right time but those are 
 pretty boring. This game defiantly should not be brought, it would make a solid rent but that's 
 just about it. This game is only fun if your playing it with friends and not by yourself, so if 
 you have no friend's don't get this game. However Beijing does feature online and is pretty good, 
 the only problem is that only the running events the game lags like hell and is almost unplayable, 
 but the throwing events are pretty cool.
  
  Beijing's graphics are passable at best. The models animate well but they don't look very good 
 in there appearances. The stadiums look OK and everything else just looks passable. The sound is 
 as usual cheesy because this game was made by Sega who are well know for there cheesy sound effects, 
 voice acting and so on.
  
  Beijing is a pretty fun game at times but don't buy it, it can be alright at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukefanx12
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Beijing 2008 Review
  
  Pro's: Splendid graphics, good sound, great selection of events, a few good (playable) events.
 
  
  Con's: Controls were the worst controls I've ever played with, tutorials sucked, Olympic Games 
 mode was horrible, blisters and burn-marks, LIVE had tons of lag, too many turn-based events, ridiculous 
 event control concepts, you need to be an Olympic athlete to play, unrealistic, repetitive, your 
 performance only affects your score, character designs don't make sense.
  
  When my dad and I went to go pick this game up from our local Game Crazy, we were thoroughly excited 
 since Torino 2006 was so much fun. When we got to Game Crazy, we saw it on the used wrack, only 
 a few days after it was released, at the time I asked myself why. Now, I know the answer to that 
 question and it makes perfect sense. The answer: It sucks!
  
  Once we got home, my dad, my little brother, my friend and I sat down to play, expecting it to 
 be the coolest thing since sliced bread. And for a while it was, but later into the night, our 
 hands, arms and thumbs hurt like hell.
  
  I'll give the game this: It had good eye and ear-candy. The visuals are absolutely stunning, most 
 of the time you can actually see the characters sweat, like they're real people. The sound is great 
 too, especially how after each event, they play an abridged version of the winning country's national 
 anthem. To make it better, no obnoxious commentators! 
  
  The controls for this game were absolutely horrendous, so much so to the point where I'm positive 
 you really need to be an Olympic athlete to play it correctly, or atleast a pro-gamer for the MLG 
 (Major League Gaming) . It was as if the creators tried to map Wii controls onto the 360's controller. 
 In events such as biking, swimming and running, you actually need to mercilessly palm the thumb-stick 
 at an immense speed in order to win. My dad, my friend and I literally had a small red burn-mark 
 on our palms by the end of the biking event. Those events are also liable to snap your analog sticks 
 along with your fingers. And I don't know what moron thought spinning the right thumb stick clockwise 
 and the left thumb stick counter-clockwise simultaneously was a good idea for the platform diving. 
 And the rapid start-then-let-go on the A button for the shot-put was more tedious than it was enjoyable.
 
  
  Olympic Games mode was damn near impossible to do. You start out with an athlete that's about as 
 ready for the Olympics as a fat, blind person is, you have to then qualify and you thereby make 
 the character better. It's a great accomplishment if you can even get passed day 2. To make it 
 worse, in any mode, there's no way to change the AI of the computers, which is a basic option for 
 all competitive games, this would be ok, if they automatically preformed better or worse, depending 
 on your skill level, but they don't.
  
  Out of all the insanely difficult events, there are that are easy, and, dare I say it; fun! Those 
 would be the Javelin, Balance Beam (though it does get repetitive) , Air Gun shhoting and the high 
 jump once you get the hang of it. The controls are not impossibly difficult, they're relatively 
 fast paced so they're fun to do in groups and they don't have you running to the freezer for an 
 ice-pack.
  
  While playing on LIVE is a great idea for a game like this, there are two main things that make 
 it less than enjoyable. Those would be the lag you get most of the time and the fact that most 
 of the events are turn-based, so playing with anymore than 3-4 people is very slow and boring. 
 It gives you enough time in between turns to wonder "Why am I playing this?".
  
  Probably the worst thing about this game, as I said, would be the absurd controls. However, not 
 only are they a pain in the rear, but they also make about as much sense as a monkey riding a unicycle. 
 I for one, do not understand how mashing arrow buttons as if you were dancing, relates to Judo 
 at all. Just as I don't understand how palming the thumb-stick in circles for 4min straight relates 
 to biking in the least, when you ride a bike like that, your legs do not burn as bad as your hand 
 when you finish the event.
  
  This game also lacks variety. The controls for the floor exercise are exactly the same as for the 
 balance beam, to make it worse, the routines for Easy, Medium and Hard are exactly the same as 
 well, only the person moves faster as you go up in difficulty. The shortest dash event, is the 
 same as the longest dash event, no energy conservation differences, nothing except sorer hands. 
 In addition to that, the bars gymnastics were very reminiscent of Step Mania but with a joystick.
 
  
  With the diving, floor exercise and swimming, your actions have little effect on anything other 
 than your score/time. As my cousin pointed out to me, if you don't touch the controller at all 
 during the diving, the girl doesn't belly-flop, she just does the same exact thing but with a bigger 
 splash and if you rotate the thumb-stick backwards, she doesn't hit her head on the platform, she 
 just does the same thing. The floor exercises don't change much either, she may stumble a little, 
 but that's about it. With any swimming event, if you totally let go of the controller, the guy 
 doesn't sink. I mean really, how realistic is that?
  
  Another thing about this game that's a little odd, is I cant tell the difference between the Americans 
 and Jamaicans, for some reason, most of the American women are black, I don't know why that is. 
 It's its near impossible to tell the Japanese from the Chinese (except that the Japanese have cooler 
 clothes) , its more like the game has "Generic Asian face x, y, z female and Generic Asian face x, y, z 
 male"
  
  What's the point of a tutorial? To show you how to do something. The tutorials in this game do 
 everything but that. In Judo they don't teach you the terminology, for all of the events, the buttons 
 and text are near unreadable (and I have 20/20 vision, so ya can't blame it on that) making pressing 
 the correct buttons rather difficult. 
  
  Really, the best thing about this game is the multiplayer, not for it's gameplay, but just for 
 the sheer humor in watching you and your friends/opponents royally screw up and the strange things 
 that escape peoples mouths when they can't do something right.
  
  All in all, this game is a waste of money and it's the most moronic thing I've ever played. I have 
 no idea what on earth the creators ad testers were thinking when they passed this game to be released 
 out to stores. It really is as if they tried (and failed miserably) to map a Wii game to a 360 
 controller. Ya know how games have warnings about epileptic seizures? Well this game needs a warning 
 that says "Danger: Extended use of this product may result in broken thumb-sticks, sore fingers, 
 arms and hands and extreme anger. Play at your own risk" Or something to that effect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robtats94
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  After an hour of play i found myself holding my hand in an imense amount of pain, but i couldn't 
 put the controller down because some events like long jump and triple jump are addictive and make 
 you want to do better and get long jumps and world records. The only thing that made me put it 
 down was judo and 100m swimming. Judo is so difficult and the tutorial doesn't help at all. 100m 
 swimming like butterfly, backstroke and breaststroke are to tiring trying to spin one analog stick 
 clockwise and the other anti-clockwise kills your hand. But i still think its worth buying for 
 the good events like 100m dash, javelin and high jump. 
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CH355Y
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Before I get started I just want to say I know lots have people have been saying that the game 
 is impossible and you will get blisters by playing it. This might happen if you play on video games 
 for most of your day. At the start it may seem that your controller is broken, just keep practising.
 
  
  Nevertheless the game can provide endless fun and enjoyment for all the family. You have the ability 
 to compete in 36 events across 10 authentic Olympic sports. From Table Tennis to the usual Track 
 Events. From Field and Aquatics events to Gymnastics. Having said that some events are a lot easier 
 than others, For example personally find the Field Events easier than the Track Events, although 
 some of my friends are completely the opposite.
  
  There is one thing about the game that peeves me off is the cheats. You always see a few at every 
 game but this is just ridiculous. For example, the best in the world at 100m (on the game) is 4.00s; 
 the best in the Long Jump is over 2,000m. Once you have finished an event it may say that you are 
 5,000th in the world. For all you know you could be the best and there are 4,999 cheats out there.
 
  
  However I would definitely recommend this game time and time again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigAleFFC
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  If you like party games this is a great multi-players whether online or a session with a crate 
 of beers.
  
  So the reviewer couldn't hack a bit of button bashing or stick wiggling, he wouldn't of been able 
 to hack it if you had to change button schemes for every event!!
  
  Sure first couples of go's but those who persevere should be able to get up to speed after a few 
 go's
  
  Theres plenty on events that don't involve the button bashing or stick wigging but that just makes 
 you feel like you have been in a sprint as the game can count as a bit of a workout raising your 
 temperature! 
  
  world records won't be obtained unless you can add a perfect start or perfect seaquence to proceedings 
 whats wrong with that?
  Nothing adds to the realism. 
  
  The other events may take a bit of mastering that don't contain going as fast as you can.
  
 
  Anyway it's a pick up and play when you got your mates round even the ones who can't handle using 
 all your buttons on your controls that matters.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackc2k8
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Well, well, well..... I've just spent 5 hours on beijing 2008.... And my hands are so full of blisters, 
 and I'm having to wear an ice pack typing..... If you colud feel how painfull it is, you might as 
 well be dead. And what has the game given me in return, for 5 hours of gameplay.... it's given 
 me countless blisters, made me extremely angry, I was on the verge of going to the docters,.. oh 
 and I came last every time.
  
  My old grandad used to say, "if a game doesn't have good controls, then it isn't a good game". He 
 was right. This games controls are so awfully hard to execute, that I nearly snapped my analog 
 stick in half. Button mashing isn't my type of fun.
  
  Boring. Bland. Average. They are a few words to describe the graphics of this game. I mean there 
 not awful, but there not brilliant either. Just plain.
  
  If you added better controls, this games gameplay would be pretty decent, in fact it would be a 
 great game if i had good controls. And because it doesn't have that, the gameplay is dire too.
 
  
  Online play is a big thing in games these days. And beijing has this, and I have to admit it's 
 actually pretty good. You don't have to wait too long in the lobbys, and it's quite fun watching 
 your mates lose terribly.
  
  Finally, if you want a pretty plain, decent game, with good online, that breaks your fingers and 
 your controller in the process, then get beijing 2008. If your not insane, and have good taste 
 in games then leave this well alone. beijing 2008 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Marred with controversy, the real life Beijing Olympics has been captured nicely in this game.
 
  
  What's controversial in the game? 
  
  How about the last minute sprint to the game production finish line with a product that is far 
 from finished.
  
  How about the athletes in the game that are far from the elite Olympic standard.
  
  How about 
 the false start of every event with a reminder of how to play - Oh - anti-clockwise on L-stick 
 and clockwise on R-stick...
  
  How about every other athlete of Chinese appearance, no matter what country you play.
  
  How 
 about the slow wind-up followed by the immediate precise button press and release required to get 
 that discus or hammer thrown. Same for the long and triple jump.
  
  I am not an Olympic athlete. I am a gamer. But I'd say competing in the real events would be more 
 fun that playing this game.
  
  The memory of California Games lives on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxhas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Actually this is the first game review I write, and usually I fully agree with Gamespot and Critic's 
 ratings, but this time, I feel they have been very unfair to a game that Sega worked hard on (despite 
 me being not a big fan of Sega games) .
  I got the game with a hand to my heart after such bad reviews, but the graphics are great, and 
 to look at the 25+ events and see how different events need different controls, they are like different 
 games.
  The waddling of 'RS' or 'LS' reminded me of when we broke a few joysticks in the old days playing 
 Daley Thompson's Decathlon..... but since then there hasn't been any multi-sport game that was so 
 much fun!
  Okay, Table Tennis, and Canoeing are awful, Diving is boring, Bars are so-so, but the rest are 
 great fun.
  My 5-year old struggles with the racing stuff, but he beats me on most of the gymnastics... he does 
 well on Archery, and he does try hard on the Hurdles and swimming, and is actually not bad (a bit 
 slow though)
  I did try the Olympic mode, and qualified to Day 3 from the first 20 minutes! Seemed easy, but 
 then stopped to play multiplayer locally against 3 other family members.... didnt even have a chance 
 to try it online yet.
  My question to those that rate it bad, how easy do they want it, and how else do they see such 
 games controlled?!
  Very few games are perfect, and with such a game that has 3 or 4 avoidable events with another 
 20 or so really enjoyable in Competition mode, I think its a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: landozgator
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the worst game I have ever played.
  No to the point instructions, tutorial very vague and we are supposed to win each day to move forward 
 to the next day? It is impossible with the way the controls work, by the way how do the controls 
 work? I tried and wasn't able to do anything right. Got disqualified all the time for jumping the 
 gun.
  Also, there is no career mode, your kidding me! The whole purpose of the game is to practice, qualify, 
 and compete in the Olympics, making it a more interesting game.
  What a waste of talent, amazing graphics, I mean the game looked very good until you play and let 
 the suffering begin.
  When I play video games, is to have fun and relax, not to suffer, mind you not, I enjoy a good 
 challenge and beating the game is the goal, but when you do not get the right instructions and 
 the right support form the game it's really hard to have fun.
  It ridiculous, I will stay with my pc game Sydney 2000 rather suffers with this game!!!
  Do not 
 waste your money on it!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isarou
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is so bad, that I had to write a review. I don't understand how some people gave this 
 game 10/10.. well, don't believe them. This game is a piece of crap. The controls aren't working. 
 Playing online is full of lag, lag and lag. The leaderboards are messed up. For example high jump 
 record is 600 m and 100m record is 3 secs. Yeah, right. On top of that, all my own records disappeared. 
 Nowadays there is nobody playing this game online. I don't wonder why.
  
  Playing this game alone is stupid and not fun at all. Playing this game with someone is stupid 
 and not fun at all. Multiplayer on same console might be fun for a moment, but not for long really. 
 Graphics are old and audio sucks too. There are only a couple of different animations. You can't 
 customise your character either (well, you CAN choose your character's face) .
  
  Beijing 2008 isn't worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Simplifying the Olympic Games to a button-pushing fest is just plain bad. The game could have done 
 better if it was programmed to work on the more physically involved Wii, but it chose to be on 
 the Xbox 360 and PS3 instead.
  
  I wonder what the CCP would say about this game if they found out about it. Sing sweet things in 
 Xin Hua Daily or lambest this game as anti-Chinese propaganda designed by evil people in Sega in 
 collaboration with counter-revolutionaries in America and Tibet? Most likely they will scoff it 
 off as "it's just a video game, not the real thing", but we all know how touchy they can get on 
 things that belittle anything remotely China.
  
  We have to be thankful that the game did not include political hoo-has like the recent events in 
 Tibet, the Uighur region and the People's Republic of China's government's economic ties to not-so-nice 
 regimes in other parts of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __The_Maister__
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Just the best olympics game ever. So easy ,so simple. Many sports, good online gaming, quite good graphics, good 
 sound, different gaming mechanicals (it is absolutly false every event is about pushing 2 buttons 
 quickly) , and thats all. Its totally absurd the Gamespot score with this game. I suppose it will 
 be about commercial business, bad relationship whit sega, or whatever, but its nosense. However, those 
 who dont like the olympic video-games, arent going to enjoy with this one, of course. Its highly 
 recommended to check another scores in other magazines to see that this is the truth. Or just play 
 the game, it will not dissapoint you. The only bad point about this title is its price, too much money 
 for a game which is not a GOW, Halo, etc.. Maybe it is because the official licenses and that stuff 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mervyn1
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  
  Now i love the olympics and i loved the games 2004 Athen's and sydney 2000 were good games but 
 this has not moved on in four years with the exception of more events to torture you with.
  
  The control system of bashing the buttons or using the control stick will hurt either way but 
 it is a good way to lose weight after an hour i was dripping with sweat.
  
  There are the impossible events like Judo, Kyaking and wightlifting that sreve to cause you unriveled 
 frustration, but there are others that are so easy even my 8 week old son could have a go and achive 
 something.
  
  It is so disapointing to see a game with such promise fail and not move forward in the years it 
 has been going, surly 4 years between games gives the designers plenty of time to be inventive, 
 it seems more like someone in march said it's 2008 we need to make a game for the olympics and 
 rushed out some old torturus tat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0RNF1AK35
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Beijing 2008 has its flaws, as described in the GS review. Olympics games mode is an infernal cycle 
 of aggravating boredom with no real target and boring layout. The lack of real athletes gives little 
 variation, although this could be a good thing if some athletes were better than others and was 
 unfair. Also a fraction of events are abysmal such as kayak, pole vault and vault.
  
  However I believe the majority of events are great and can be played competently after watching 
 the tutorial and a bit of practise time. Trying again and again to beat that world record or a 
 friend's personal best ist irresistible. Reading the GS review I could tell they had not truly 
 understood the game. The judo does not take long to grasp and waggling the sticks is a lot easier 
 than mashing A and B. However I understand that this constant grind of analog sitck waggling and 
 trigger mashing may not be to some people's taste, so try before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiteWolf77
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  This games controls are tiresome and give you blisters on your hands after extended play. I don't 
 recommend this game for anyone. The leveling up is hard to do and alot of the events you have to 
 be an olympian in order to perform the necessary game controls. If you do win a gold medal then 
 you don't even have anything to really show for it than standing on a soapbox and your national 
 anthem play you don't even get a chance to see the medal. I don't even think the people that made 
 this game can play this game. So if anybody is thinking of going out and buying this game before 
 the olympics start next week so you can play along with the olympics think again it is a waste 
 of time and money to purchase this game. There are very few events that you can actually master 
 to be able to advance to the next round and some of them no matter how hard you try you will not 
 be able to complete that event with even a third place medal. A huge disappointment to anyone who 
 has played previous olympic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aMMo16
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay I will start with the pointers that Game spot is accurate about. Yes it is repetitive, but 
 what would you expect for an olympic game? Athletes don't do different things every time they do 
 an event in the real olympics, instead they try and try harder to get to first place and beat a 
 world record, just like in the game.
  
  Beijing 2008 is fun and very competitive, yes the controls are hard to master at first but once 
 you get use to them you will be winning world records in no time. The 100m is simple after a few 
 goes, all field events are easy once practiced and most of the other events just require skill, 
 focus and stamina.
  
  I think the only reason Game spot have dissed this game is because they simply can't play it, the 
 game is too hard for them on their first go so they decided to slap a 3.0 on it, because it has 
 nice graphics. Of course at first things are going to be hard, it's the olympics for christ sake, 
 world records aren't given out to the mediocre athelte, their given to strong and skilled athletes, 
 and once you have practiced all events you will get the hang of it.
  
  I will agree that kayaking and judo are hard to master, hell i haven't figured that out yet, and 
 the skeet shooting is INSANELY hard but thats just something you need to work on to get good at 
 it.
  
  This game will not be easy to you when you first play it, this game will require patience and stamina. 
 If you are like Game spot and will throw it away when you fail at your first attempt then this 
 is not the game for you.
  
  If you are competitive, have got plenty of stamina and willing to practice hard then this game 
 is for you.
  
  Not to mention the multiplayer online and off is very fun, especially when your literally level 
 on the 100m with your friends and their is about a milimetre between 2nd place and 1st. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydentenno
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  I hate this game, hope i have waited for the reviews, but as usual i have to run and buy it asap. I 
 love Olympic games but this game should be recollected from the shelves and have our money back.
 
  Every single race, swim, jump, shoot etc is very difficult, tutorials are awful, all u have to do is 
 tap the buttons simultaneously fast in order to complete the job but tapping them isn't that easy 
 at all, very hard, but if i was the flash i couldn't hit the specific speed in order to win the race.
 
  I'll be waiting for the next Olympics game and hope they take our opinions into consideration.
 
  No difficulty ranges, the easy is toooooo haaaarrrrrrddd, i hope they range it next time.
  All in all i don't recommend anyone buying this game it would be a waste of time and money.......
 
  Hope they wont wait fort the next Olympics to make a new game :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantking
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Why do all these games have to be about button mashing? I have managed to play through a lot of 
 this game, but when it comes to the button mashing events i still cannot get those fingers tapping 
 quite fast enough. There is also no medal tallys, no actual feel that you are in the olympic games 
 and competing against other countries, I had to play Kenya in the finals of table tennis? And the 
 Bahamas seem to be doing great in the swimming this year. New Zealand were in the finals of the 
 Judo! There are no real athletes, and while that might have been tricky to license at least give 
 us some made up names rather than CPU RUS and CPU BAH and then each of my athletes being called 
 GRANT. Why couldnt they just base it on the actual schedule of the games? Have each event and heat 
 for each day of the games so you feel as if you are actually working your way to something? And 
 why earn points to give bonus skills to your players? Some of the stages of the game require you 
 to finish 4 out of 5 events, well when one of those events is a button masher and one of them is 
 kayaking (which is one of the events its best not mentioning) it can get quite difficult and tedious 
 to the point you want to turn it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  We were at a rental store and i saw this game, i thought "A game about the olympics!" So i rented 
 it, and played it. This game is not a good game to have on the xbox, because you need to move you 
 fingers in a split second, making it very touch to play. If you can move your fingers fast enough, 
 you should be in the olympic games. Also there is no difficultie level, so you have to beat the 
 times, witch are almost inmpossible to beat. If you dont care about that, i can tell you that the 
 graphics are great, but it is the same look each time, you just speed up or slow down. Before you 
 buy this game, make sure you are buying it on the right system, i think it would be alot more fun 
 on the computer. For the first game based on the olympics, i say it should have been on Wii, because 
 there are so few buttons, and easy to press all at once. Get something different, this is not a 
 good game, period. Its a total waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakcikkantin
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  I find it hard to push buttons. There is no manual help when playing, and no chance to try game. 
 Once you failed in an olympics session, you have to load back the save games. Also no career mode, 
 which you can finish it by a day.
  I found the character customization is no useful when playing single mode.
  lack of settings, 
 the power bars also not very helpful. There is no point to save game points. I cannot collect game 
 points from any of the game. Not worth buying.
  I find it hard to push buttons. There is no manual help when playing, and no chance to try game. 
 Once you failed in an olympics session, you have to load back the save games. Also no career mode, 
 which you can finish it by a day.
  I found the character customization is no useful when playing single mode.
  lack of settings, 
 the power bars also not very helpful. There is no point to save game points. I cannot collect game 
 points from any of the game. Not worth buying
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charolo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I think its just a fun game lots of things to do breaking recoreds it not the number one game but 
 like when your bored and just feel like shooting swimming running all those thing this game could 
 just help u and also a good game that you and your friends could play vs each other to see who 
 the best whos faster so this is a game if u like to play with your friends and they have so many 
 games that cool u choose what u want to play i just think it not a game u should have but its a 
 games that you could buy just to have fun with friends when i first played it i though this is 
 not a good game not fun but when you play with friends u get into the game because you want to 
 be first so it good when u play with your friends by yourself idk could be fun but then gets boreding 
 so if you to play agenst your friends and u like to be number one play this game and you'll see 
 who is the really number one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Well my experience with this started out good. I started with the training mode in the 100m race. 
 Once I thought I could compete I went to the Olympics mode, however did I have an option to run 
 the 100m race? No!
  I had to prequalify in events that I am not interested in, I couldn't believe it. No freedom to 
 the user at all, the developers force you to play it the way they want you to. No thanks, this 
 is trade in material.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, they certainly coulld of been better. At least for the foot racing, 
 the A+B combo was awkward for me, I preferred using the right stick. The tutorials helped for the 
 most part, though I was still unclear when doing the longjump.
  
  I will probably try the Summer Athletics game coming out in August, hopefully that game will be 
 a little more flexible and user friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  I love the Olympics. I eagerly await each presentation of the Games, and I don't mind staying up 
 all hours to catch games from distant time zones. So it came as a big letdown to me when this game 
 turned out to be such a mess. I had false hope when I saw how many events there were, a real variety 
 instead of the piddly four or so you usually get in an Olympic video game, and the good quality 
 of the graphics as well. These dreams were dashed when I actually started to play. Whoever dreamed 
 up the complex and difficult control system needs to be taken out and given one of those humiliating 
 tests in a cup by the IOCC. There isn't a thing where you won't embarrass yourself a zillion times 
 while you try to figure out what you're even supposed to do. Shame, really. They could have done 
 a much better job on this. I certainly hope they don't give the next Winter Games title to the 
 same bunch of designers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I haven't ran into any bad games to this point on the 360. But this game is just pure trash. I 
 try to do the 100m, 200m, and etc. I mash the buttons as fast as I can my runner is so freakin 
 slow it's not any fun to play. This game might have been halfway decent if I could have other difficulty 
 levels to play at like maybe too easy, easy, some what easy, you wish it was easier, medium, hard, 
 insane, so insane that your fingers hurt and then the level they currently have. It would have 
 been nice to change the difficulty levels on events depending how good you are at them. If I want 
 to get slaughtered then I could just go on XBOX LIVE. The 1500m I slaughtered the competition, 
 100m they slaughter me, the kayaking is so akward it's not any fun, the javalin is easy I win without 
 much effort. Why couldn't I have some type of difficulty setting on this game to alter it to my 
 abilities.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: COD4_Shinedown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  This game is not a masterpiece by any means but it is fun. The controls are good and there is a 
 wide selection of events. The majority of these events are easy enough to play however there are 
 a few which can prove to be very difficult (judo, kayaking come to mind) .
  
  But like I said at the beginning of my review this game is not a masterpiece. It won't be winning 
 any game of the year awards, but it does what it sets out to do and that is to provide a fun experience 
 for players. The graphics aren't anything exceptional but they do the job. What this game is all 
 about is getting a bunch of friends together and having yourself a great time seeing who is the 
 fastest runner or longest jumper. 
  
  Also the career aspect of the game is very well done, but can become frustrating when you need 
 to win 4 out of 5 events to continue on. However I do like the ability to improve you're players 
 attributes. 
  
  Although there are things that could be improved I feel the game is a big improvement over its 
 prequel (Athens 2004) . I'll say it again, this game is not perfect however it is very fun and addictive. 
 I would recommend this to anyone and I think it is definitely worth a look if you are a fan of 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyaleWivCheese
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  I've never written a review before (and probably won't again) but after reading the one below, 
 I felt compelled to state my case and defend the game as I wouldn't want anyone to miss out after 
 reading it. The following is a review posted by another Gamespot user:
  
  
  "My first word on this - rubbish, last word - rubbish.... This game looks fantastic very nice graphics, 
 however that is the only nice thing about it. Some of the controls are truly hateful, some are 
 just not natural presses to make, for example one of the diving events requires you to rotate each 
 analogue stick at the same time in opposite directions... what were they thinking??? As for the 
 judo... no comment. Playing this game makes my wireless controller battery pak fall out a lot also. 
 Some of the events are too easy, some are impossible. You can have a tutorial before the event 
 but actually this makes things even worse as it does not explain clearly enough. In the Olympic 
 mode I think the idea is that u qualify for a certain amount of events any given day ie 4 out of 
 5 events if u do not its a case of reload try again reload and try again reload and try again u 
 can see a pattern here! I thought with over 30 events, all varying what could be bad, how wrong 
 I was - a waste of 40 quid and a waste of precious gaming time!!" 
  
  
  
  Now, I will make this quick. Firstly, and it's the only thing i do agree with, the graphics are 
 fantastic and every event has a 'real' quality to it.
  
  The controls? PRACTICE! I've only had this game for two days and already I have improved considerably 
 at every event in the game. There are only a few events (namely skeet shooting, kayaking and judo) 
 that take more than 3 or 4 attempts before you become competent at them. The diving event mentioned 
 above is a little "fiddly" but I got a bronze on my first attempt and I'm getting better every 
 time I try it. The Judo on the other hand may seem impossible at the beginning but once you know 
 what you're doing, it's actually very easy. In fact, in the last 4 or 5 games I've had I haven't 
 lost once and I can foresee it becoming rather boring! The tutorial at the beginning of each event 
 does its job and yes, for some events it leaves something for you to figure out for yourself. This 
 doesn't take long and hey, isn't that part of the fun?
  
  The control system is very well implemented but there are obviously going to be events where you 
 must button bash (or wiggle the stick if you prefer) but as you will know from playing games similar 
 to this, it will not cause your battery pak to fall out... I know mine hasn't anyway.
  
  Some people will obviously be better at this game than others but the learning curve for 90% of 
 the events isn't steep at all. Qualifying and passing each stage of the Olympic mode is not difficult. 
 I only had to reload/re-start a group of events once and after you've completed Olympic mode once, 
 you can do it again and keep all your stats from the previous game making it more satisfying and 
 a lot less frustrating the second time around.
  
  In summary, it's a game that you should enjoy at the beginning and that will get better through 
 time and bit of effort and it's a lot of fun, especially with other people - either locally or 
 on Xbox LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gimmer_1986
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Well its been a while since a decent game of of this liking has graced the consoles but now, it 
 seems that Sega have pulled off an interesting coupe. with your regular track and field events 
 you have a whole array of other events, now players can have the whole hit of the Olympic fruit 
 so to say. The Olympic games mode adds to the depth of the game with the chance to build stats, 
 qualify for the events and take part in "Challenge" days to gain more points to build the stats. 
 there are some slight oversights though, certain events take ALOT of practice to get right such 
 as the judo and the Kayak with fiddly controlles. But as alot of its predecessors have failed at 
 But all in all it is a game that will keep you interested and is fun to use at party's. (Especially 
 after a couple of drinks) . with only a couple of let downs it is woth the price tag slapped on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgmonkeeuk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  When I think of Athletics sims, my mind wanders back to the days of Hypersports, Track and Field, 
 Daley Thompsons' Decathlon etc etc To endless hours of button bashing, joystick breaking mayhem. 
 Faces, red, clenched in concentration, trying hard not to bite your tongue. Sweat dripping down 
 your neck, arms aching, legs shaking, eyes blurry with enthusiasm  and yes, it felt great.. but 
 that was 20 years ago. I'm less fit than I once was, but surely things have changed?
  
  Sadly not! With Beijing 2008 there is still an overwhelming emphasis on tapping the old A+B as 
 quick as possible to get the best results (and trust me, you will have to give it some welly!) 
 and frankly, it's not viable. 360 controllers just aren't built for that kind of abuse. So expect 
 to stump up the money to replace your controller at some point!
  
  That said, Sega have tried to put a bit more thought into the controls for some events and most 
 actual work very well. Gymnastics is played out as a kind of dancemat routine, with the most successful 
 getting results from accuracy and agility rather than on pure button-mashing. There's also an impressive 
 range of events  Beijing 2008 hasn't stuck to the tried and tested Track and Field formula, but 
 has branched out far into the Olympic spectrum with competitions in Archery, Diving, Kayaking, 
 Pursuit Cycling, Table Tennis, Judo, Shooting and many more. You get the feeling that Sega have 
 tried to make something for everyone.
  
  Difficulty wise, it's a mixed bag. Some events you'll breeze through, and some you will struggle 
 with and I think this is just about right  like a Decathlete, you can't be good at everything 
 can you?
  
  As the logistics go, with every type of this game  some events are better made than others. Those 
 that work well far outweigh those that don't, although Judo is spectacularly bad I have to say 
 and Table Tennis looks and plays awful. Similarly, the 1500metres and Circle Pursuit, are just 
 tiresome & dull as they can last 4 minutes or more.
  
  As an official game of the Olympics, it's obviously well presented. The graphics, although a bit 
 too bulky on occasion, are well received, colourful and the game overall looks pretty good. I don't 
 think anybody has quite mastered the mechanics of human movement properly, and sadly it does look 
 like your athlete is waddling rather than running. As a plus point though, adding national anthems 
 to the gold medal winners' ceremonies is a nice touch.
  
  The career mode is a bit of a let down, I have to mention. You seemingly repeat events until you 
 qualify  so if you can't get the knack of the Hammer, for example, you will be perpetually re-starting 
 your career as an athlete. That could get rather annoying. But the expansive multi-player mode, 
 where you can try and test every event from the moment you load up the game (all are unlocked, 
 which is fantastic) , more than makes up for the disappointing career. Online is probably best avoided, 
 as it will probably remind you of the fact that "no matter how good you think you are, there's 
 always a million people out there who are better than you".
  
  Overall, I don't think Beijing 2008 quite takes the gold medal on this occasion. More like a plucky 
 British athlete, it falls short of being a true great. However, there's enough substance and style 
 within the game to keep you playing a few months after the real Olympic Games have ended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaffarooni
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Being a sports fan i have to say that i have eagerly awaited a decent Olympics game to be developed 
 since Olympic gold all those years and broken controllers ago on the mega drive. I can say with 
 some confidence I am impressed with the offering brought to us by SEGA based on the up and coming 
 olympics in Beijing 2008. There wasn't too much information released about this game before launch 
 but i gambled and parted with my 40 and would say that this is not a waste. Now i like games to 
 be a challenge and i'm sure that other hard core gamers feel the same and this game doesn't disappoint. 
 Its supposed to be difficult just like it is in real life not just anybody can rock up and call 
 themselves and olympic athlete it takes years of practice and dedication. There is a nice mixture 
 of control schemes used in the games, button bashing of course or stick waggling as well as rotations 
 and button timing activities. Some events are harder than others but that adds to the charm, you 
 have to persevere with this game and get the practice in. After a few goes on the training mode 
 you will find yourself becoming much more competitive. I'm not saying buy this game if you do not 
 like sport but if you do and you like good old fashioned head to head competition go for it because 
 there is not much better than running a 100m showpiece against 7 of your friends online. All the 
 events have full online capability with up to 8 people so this extends the longevity of the game 
 once you have bought it. Go on give it a go, if your not sure hire it first, i hope you enjoy it 
 as much as i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  I must admit i expected this to be quite rubbish, but the subtle differences in each event makes 
 this a great varied sports title. each event varies (maybe with the exception of the running events) 
 greatly, some of the best events being the gymnastics which i thought would be rubbish,. Some events 
 require a series of button presses, some require waggling the stick, some requiregetting the best 
 angle and some require a good aim. My favourite events so far are the rings, javelin, skeet shooting, 
 air pistol hammer throw and 10m diving. the only events i aint keen on are judo and the rock hard 
 (for me) kayaking. I am enjoying it much much more than i expected to. my only concerns with this 
 title is that i cant do that flipping judo for the life of me and have yet to get to grips with 
 the kayaking. also playing with your mates is the way to go here, already causing quite a few rows! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
