-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beowulf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/beowulfubisoft/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Your thanes love you.
 There's plenty of slow-mo bloodletting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's easy to get stuck.
 The combat is brainless.
 Following the story is a quest in itself.
 You'll find dead ends in every aspect of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.3, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 432 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even a merry band of adventurous thanes can't save this quest from ruin. 

  "Even monsters have a mother," says the cursed Danish king in Ubisoft's new Beowulf: The Game. 
 But unlike monsters, video games have many mothers, and we don't mean just their dev teams. Take 
 Beowulf, for instance. With its ultraviolent combat, extravagant boss fights, hypermacho hero, 
 and cinematic, button-prompted beatdowns, this game of the movie of the poem borrows traits from 
 several great games of the past but fails to live up to any of them.  

  Beowulf is a third-person action game in which you stomp all over enemies and bosses as the buff, 
 angry, and eponymous Beowulf, while commanding your band of merry Thanes via a small selection 
 of commands ("Get angry," "Come here," "Move that," "Stop moving that") . The stomping is cinematic 
 and grossly satisfying, albeit repetitive, and your Thanes are great. But stronger than any of 
 these friends are foes of a design nature, and these issues lie in wait to completely sabotage 
 your quest and kill your will to adventure.  

           Kratos called; he wants his boss fight back.      

  The story is nonsense. You play 
 Beowulf, the strong, swimming, monster-slaying Nordic macho man dispatched to rid the Danes of 
 a marauding monster. After defeating Grendel, you're given a nifty dragon horn by the seemingly 
 mad Danish king, who then dispatches you to kill Grendel's mother. She seduces you into giving 
 her the horn (which, it turns out, is magical and must be used to feed Denmark) , and all of a sudden 
 you're the Danish king, and your kingdom is in the exact same position it was in before you arrived. 
 Grendel's mother has you where it hurts, and everything is going to heck as barbarians, monkey 
 men, rival Thanes, and cultists run wild across your land. Your job is to kill everyone bad, and 
 somehow not be seduced by Grendel's mother, who humps your leg and bites your neck whenever she 
 sees you.  

  The path seems straight enough. After all, the game is largely linear and only about six hours 
 long from beginning to end. But waiting for you in that short journey are design pitfalls you may 
 never escape from. One example is a puzzle that challenges you to use carnal rage (berserk mode) 
 to start fires, which in turn let you hunt the leader of a band of evil monkey men. If the connection 
 between rage, fire, and monkey men is lost on you, you are not alone. Unraveling that tangle is 
 one of the most frustrating challenges in the game, not for the tax it exacts on your mental faculties, 
 but for its utter lack of logic.  

  This case is just one outgrowth of a greater fungal network of confusion, weird mechanics, and 
 bad planning. Beowulf, in an effort to seem open ended, is full of branching paths whose avenues 
 lead to dead ends. Even worse, one trail will be blocked by a waist-high boulder that your mightiness 
 cannot scale, yet the only way forward will entail a 20-foot climb straight up a vertical surface. 
 Truly, Beowulf does not know his own strength, and neither does Ubisoft.  

  There are other such illusions at work, such as the "carnal" versus "heroic" scale system. Ostensibly, 
 this is a meter by which your legacy will be measured, but appearances can be deceiving. If you 
 rely heavily on carnal fury (a berserker mode in which you become invincible and do heavy damage) , 
 you'll gain currency that improves your berserker state, and the meter will slide toward carnal. 
 If you kill enemies with regular attacks, you'll gain currency that improves your henchmen, and 
 shifts the meter toward heroic. But there's no light or dark path, which this system seems to hint 
 at, and even worse, you can't always choose whether or not you want to be carnal or heroic. Against 
 virtually all the bosses, you have to enter carnal mode; it's the only way to hurt them.  

           Longtime fans of stabbing things will probably find something to like here.      

 
  If you dodge an enemy's strike, you'll be able to execute a cinematic power attack that can slay 
 nearly any foe in one shot  and heal you . The funny thing is that you don't actually have to dodge 
 an attack. You simply hit dodge followed by power strike, and Beowulf automatically executes the 
 super swing while moving toward the nearest enemy. Even better, Beowulf seems to be invulnerable 
 during both animations, so as long as you hammer on the dodge-and-attack sequence, you can cinematically 
 cleave and stomp your way through an unlimited number of barbarians, monkey men, or worshippers, 
 all while healing yourself and your allies. When you aren't mindlessly mashing buttons, you're 
 following button prompts to kill bosses, just like in God of War. Consequently, the only aspect 
 of Beowulf's combat model that isn't downright broken is cribbed from someone else's epic poem. 

  Except for one thing, or rather, thane. You see, any time you do anything remotely awesome, your 
 thanes (your Norse entourage) will cheer you on with shouts of "Wow, did you see that?", "Whoa, 
 look at Beowulf, he is so awesome!" and "My hero, look at him go! I am inspired!" Those aren't 
 their exact words, but the sentiments are the same. Likewise, every one of them will whoop and 
 holler every time you kick butt, and you average at least a butt kicked per second. As a result, 
 combat is a matter of you chopping people up and stomping on them in glorious slow motion, while 
 buckets of blood fly all over the screen, to an unending chorus of awe, affection, and gratitude. 
 There are definitely worse experiences in video games.  

  Furthermore, say that you find your path blocked by a boulder. Instead of just kicking it aside 
 yourself, you point at it and say "Move that boulder" via a simple command menu, and your thanes 
 all jump on it with calls of "Here I go," "I'm doing it!", and "I'm in position!" From there, you 
 can begin a rhythm game that causes Beowulf to dance, sing, and pump his fist while the thanes 
 heave, ho, and say things like "Yeah, here we go, we're doing it! Yeah!" So you aren't just a marauding 
 band of tough guys, you're an adventurous, Nordic a cappella group that solves problems with the 
 power of song, dance, and positive reinforcement -- Elite Beat Ancients.  

           Moving boulders with the power of... music?      

  As you might expect, the production 
 values are uneven. Most of the environments look good, with plenty of atmosphere and creepy set 
 pieces, and the cinematic violence certainly employs enough blood. But Beowulf executes the same 
 attacks over and over, and the guy himself isn't very cool-looking. His weird Viking ponytail looks 
 awful, and some of the other textures look last-generation. Both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 
 versions run smoothly, without any noticeable jaggies, though the PC version was a different story. 
 Without antialiasing, the game looked gritty but ran fine. With antialiasing, it looked fine but 
 moved with caffeinated jerkiness. Otherwise, all three versions were effectively the same, with 
 simple controls, ridiculous challenges, and fun-loving thanes.  

  Beowulf: The Game, for all its considerable flaws, has some unique and fun content. And even though 
 your thanes aren't particularly capable, they're still oddly entertaining. So it's too bad that 
 the fun is so short-lived, and that the game itself is so poorly crafted. After just three hours 
 of Beowulf, you'll get stuck, have no idea what to do, and be ready to send it to sea on a pile 
 of burning sticks. Even if you do struggle through the game's obtuse obstacles, the rest of its 
 myriad problems will make you wish you'd spent your spoils on a longer, better voyage.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GamerankingsUK
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Beowulf is a great game and the combat in it is fun and brutal, you learn new moves and new ways 
 to deal with enemys all over the game so it does not get boring to me. The voice acting is very 
 good and the music is very welcome to this game. The graphics are quite good and going into battle 
 and stamping on a man with one of your thanes using a hammer on the guy at the same time is a welcome 
 view.
  
  Beowulf is a very good hack and slasher and rivals all those great games of this genre out there. 
 I like this game because it is very good. There are mush badder games out there: Eragon, Conan, Bionicle 
 Heroes, Fable II ECT.
  
  This game is going for a fiver now and you would not lose anything for buying it... go on give it 
 a try and you will like this game.
  
  
  It is a next gen game as you will see by the graphics, it does get boring but don't all games of 
 this genre get boring after a while?
  
  But the thing with Beowulf is that you'll play it at least three times to get all endings and exp 
 everything the game offers.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:43 am PT
Review:  Beowulf... A epic game that has you wanting more. In Beowulf you play as Beowulf from his days as 
 an viking to his days as a king and lastly his days as an old man. The story is quite good but you 
 may have too play through twice to understand the story if you've never watched the movie. The combat 
 is fun and violent and what makes it intresting and funny is how performing diffrent actions makes 
 beowulf shout out stuff, grabing someone may led to him saying:"I'VE GOT YOU NOW!"Another thing 
 is controlling beowulf is easy and controlling your thanes is even easier there is nothing wrong 
 with the controls nor is the combat rubbish. Infact at times you will see your soldiers getting 
 there head stamped on by a group of enemys and you'll have to save them (If you want) , but that proves 
 the AI is good as your soldiers do stuff like that to the enemy. The levels are very good as are 
 the grapics and there's even RPG elements here allowing you to upgrade your thanes armor and of 
 course the weapons you've collected over your travels will always be in your armory to be equiped, you 
 can also upgrade yourself.
  
  
  The boss fights are good too. The end fight is epic and legendary.
  
  Now I have no idea why 
 some people hate this game and why it got 5/10 from gamespot, conan a game that made me want to 
 kill myself had bad controls crap combat and the view was bad as was the voice acting. Beowulf however 
 has next gen grapics great combat and 2 ways to progress through each mission changing the story 
 a few times. All in all Beowulf is a great game and it can be picked up for a fiver now. So if you 
 want a fun great action/RPG/RTS game buy this!
  
  
  10/10
  
  And for God's sake! Can people stop rateing the reviews not helpful just because you know it's 
 good. You just coulden't beat the first boss big deal!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowscale18
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Beowulf: The Game is a movie tie-in to the film of the same name. The game however, lets you play 
 further than the plot of the movie by adding thirty additional years of Beowulf's life for you 
 to hack through. Unfortunately, even three hundred years aren't long enough to make anyone like 
 playing this dull, boring and lifeless action game that tries to do everything other games do.
 
  
  The story is supposed to tie into the movie, but since a movie is only two hours long, the developers 
 decided to allow you to explore an extra thirty years of the Thane King's life. An interesting 
 premise, but the story is so maddeningly agitating that you'll likely give up long before the thirty 
 years pass. The basic story of Beowulf is as such - King builds beer haven - monster attacks beer 
 haven - King calls Beowulf - Beowulf kills monster - King is happy - monster's mother attacks beer 
 haven - Beowulf kills monster's mother - dragon attacks kingdom - Beowulf saves the day. Solid 
 story, for something written several hundred years ago. Getting off topic for a moment, the movie 
 decided to have Beowulf side with the monster's mother and sleep with her, and the story ended 
 up taking a weird twist. That aside, the game further destroys the plot by altering the movie's 
 plot further, making the monster's mother (Grendel is the monster's name, for reference.) controlling 
 you the entire time. This makes the story a mockery of what it once was, and confuses me. 
  
  Now to the action, the main part of an action game. The gameplay in Beowulf is fairly solid, 
 and is entertaining for awhile. Beowulf is usually accompanied by a group of Thanes (drunken, sword 
 swinging warriors, of course.) who you can control to a very tiny degree. You begin each level 
 with a basic sword, but you can scavenge other weapons from the battle field. Problem is, besides 
 the basic difference between heavier weapons, longer weapons, and lighter weapons, each sword/axe/spear 
 is the same. Same damage, same effect. Beowulf has a small handfull of combos that include, but 
 are not limited to: stabbing, slicing, stabbing, cutting, slicing, and stabbing. I might have missed 
 one, but you get the idea. The combat is annoying because your weapons break like they're made 
 of glass, and the enemies color palettes are the same as your allies, so half the time you don't 
 know what to stab. There is a sort of rage meter in the game you can fill by slaughtering things, 
 and once you unleash this power (called Carnal Fury, because "Slaughter Time" was probably rejected 
 by the ESRB) Beowulf becomes some sort of simple minded murder trolley that deals extra damage, 
 but can also hit allies. The screen tints red, making it even more difficult to distinguish good 
 guy from bad. To add insult to injury, using this power puts you further down your evil meter (yes, 
 for some reason you have one) and so you lose a few options down the line. But it doesn't matter, 
 since either way, you'll spend much of the game slaughtering the same enemies over and over again 
 as you use one of your attack buttons to either stab, bludgeon or slice them. Oh, and you can find 
 shields too, which allow you to block. Without one though, you're unable to. Evidently a seasoned 
 warrior who has travelled the world slaying monsters cannot block without the aide of a large chunk 
 of wood. Go figure.
  
  There are also minigames peppered into the gameplay that usually involve you commanding your Thanes 
 to move some large item that you yourself seem too lazy to move. The minigames are rhythem based. 
 Yes, they are based on Beowulf singing to inspire his Thanes to move things. If this seems out 
 of place to you, then welcome to the club. The mini games make the game seem weird and rushed. 
 Lastly, the game features boss fights. However, each boss fight feels like it was ripped straight 
 from another game. The first fight in the game has you attacking a large sea serpent by jumping 
 onto it and stabbing (you do a lot of stabbing) it's eye. Can anyone say God of War? I can, and 
 it was more fun with Kratos. He didn't run around with half naked, drunken men either.
  
  The graphics are actually one of the game's selling points. Ubisoft must have put a lot of time 
 into them, as they are usually crisp and sharp. The character models are pretty well, with some 
 great animations and some nice textures, but sometimes they appear grainy. The real star of the 
 show are the enviroments. The snowy forest near the beginning of the game is simply beautiful, 
 and the water-logged cave in the second or third act (I forgot, as I tried to block the game from 
 memory) is very nice. Overall, the graphics are very well, and are it's saving grace.
  
  The sound design is mixed. On one side, you've got the voice acting, which is fairly bland. Beowulf 
 sounds like he should be an extra on the Monty Python show (It'd be more interesting, too) , and 
 the other characters have uninspired lines. The sound effects are all right, but the enemies all 
 sound the same, and the sound of blades cutting flesh isn't what it should be. The music, for the 
 most part, is fairly solid, though it could be more prominant. Overall, the game is best played 
 muted. 
  
  Overall, Beowulf feels like a flat out waste of coding. Sure, stabbing people for awhile is fun, 
 but it gets old. The boss fights are recycled, the gameplay is boring, and the voice acting and 
 sound is a bore. If you can, just go rent the movie, watch it, and pantomime what happens on screen. 
 You'll have more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saginlow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  beowolf....... how would i describle this game..... um... lets see... oh yeas! its very interesting, 
 fairly fun, although it doesnt have the best of graphics! its also unique! very unique acctually! 
 my friends and i love to play it, but it can be better. like better graphics, little bit, not much 
 just a little bit more gore in it, and maybe faster running in it too! haha! funy....... wait you 
 dont get it do you...... oh well! its very fun to play, although i wish there was xbox live for 
 it! honestly, i wouldnt recomend it, but if you like slaying monsters and that viking age stuff, 
 you would like this game. well, thats basically it, now i need to take up the room by doing random 
 stuff. check out my xbox360 live account: saginlow
  no  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Lots of brutal kills and blood
  - Many will find the combat fun
  
  Negative
  - Combat is crazy
  - Story is almost impossible to follow
  - There are better brutal 
 games on the market, this isn't much worth
  
  Beowulf is a violent and sometimes entertaining movie game. Unlike most movie games this one is 
 pretty better than those I played before. Maybe I should stop reviewing movie games. This is a 
 normal hack-and-slash game which the main objective is to kill everyone you meet.
  
  You will play as Beowulf, a mighty one. The main purpose of the game is to stab things and kill 
 enemies. Combat is brutal but repetitive and shallow. Story is dull and not easy to follow or understand. 
 Game is linear and it end for too quickly, about 6 hours or more. There are bosses in the game 
 and some of them are really good. Graphics are good and sceneries are quite good. This game is 
 somehow ultra-violent since it's full of killing and blood, but it's not as entertaining as God 
 of War. Voice acting is really pathetic but music is a bit better, I guess. Action is a bit easy 
 and some of the bosses are disappointing. Controls are simple, that can be good.
  
  It's not a bad movie game, but Beowulf: the game could have been better. It has some good ideas, 
 but just a little few where interpreted well. Combat is fun at first but gets dull after a short 
 while. The story is severely disappointing and it's a bit short. Though if you really enjoyed the 
 movie to rate it 10 / 10 you should give the game a try, maybe you change your opinion. I haven't 
 watched the film yet, but movie games give you a bad expression of the film of the game you're 
 didn't see or you're about to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THECELLMASTER
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The game beowulf for the Xbox 360 was an ok goame but there are more bad then good for me.
  the good thing about the game was the fighting. It is real bloody and fun.
  One of the thing's 
 i didin't like about the game was the story line. The story line was off from the book and the 
 movie, I mean there were some parts that were right on the story line but most wern't .Of course 
 you have to go and add some parts to the game but like half of the game is added content to the 
 story line.
  Another thing i didn't like about the game was the repaeting lines during the fighting sequnce. 
 He would keep saying lines like "fear me" or "i am the monster slayer" which in my opinion goets 
 really annoying.
  the final thing iI have to say about the game is it Is a good game for first time 360 owners but 
 not for experienced games like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  This game is the equivalent of having a bite out of your favourite food whilst getting the crap 
 kicked out of you.
  
  Everytime you start to think 'Hey this is not actually that bad' it right hooks you with repetitive 
 gameplay and button mashing nonsense. 
  
  And then later when you realise that although the occasional monster (or in some cases monkey) 
 is last gen and rushed in its look, though overall the level designs and characters can look really 
 slick and beautiful. It turns around and cripples you with the worst save system and punishing 
 difficulty after level 10.
  
  I really wanted to write a half decent review for this game, but in the end no matter how many 
 slight moments of fun it gave me (the button timed chants and wheel pushing never really got old) , 
 I just can't knowingly advise anyone to buy it. 
  
  Sure you can get it for less than a tenner ($20) but seriously, br / 
  don't. Just...... don't
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossguyy94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I saw this movie and I was amazed... really loved the story... everything... I found out they came 
 out with a game.. I immedietly ran out and bought it.... I just started playing it and... wow... people 
 are giving this bad reviews.... its not gay..... but yes... it is the same thing over and over again... THATS 
 WHAT HACK AND SLASH GAMES ARE PPL!!!!
  
  Now... the good...
  
  
  ... nice weapons...... like how you can go into the little sequences... when ur fighting.... and the 
 rage and all that just adds to it....
  
  GRAPHICS!! ARE GREAT!!! Its one of those games where you wanna just look around and say..."wow"...
 
  
  STORY!!! .... LOVE IT!!!
  
  Havn't got to the final boss yet... but I am getting there....
  
  
  Now... the bad...
  
 
  
  The game is a bit toooo easy... but still good overall...
  
  
  The gameplay... does get boring after a couple hours.... but still... its fun...
  
  
  
  
 
  I will add to this when I finish game.....
  
  -Ross 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting Beowulf to be a really good game when I first saw the previews of that game. But 
 when I loaded up the game.... man I was shocked, this game was way below my expectations.
  
  I'll start with the good stuff since there's almost none:
  
  -Nice graphics: this is the best 
 aspect of the game, nice textures, impressive scenery at times, and good amount of diverse environments.
 
  
  -destroying enemies with multiple bashing and hacking attacks is fun ..... for a certain time, after 
 hours of the same thing.... it gets boring
  
  -blood, gore and slow motion sequences (always a good thing)
  
  -Nice idea to choose between 
 going berserk and powerfull or teaming up with your allies during fights. 
  
  Now for the bad stuff:
  
  -Story: Oh my god, this story just make no sense, one of the worst 
 story ever, period
  
  -Voice acting: sooooo lame... I've stop listening to the characters in the middle of the game
 
  
  -too short (took me about 9-10 hours on the toughest level.... which confirmed the other point) =
 
  
  -too easy (except for the final boss)
  
  -talking about the final boss = worst final battle ever.... hacking and dodging for 45 min-1 hour 
 is not fun at all.... I've collected rage and hero points during this game... why can't I use them 
 during the final fight ????!!! WTF !!!!??... the 30 last seconds were cool... but 30 sec out of a 
 45 min battle .. you do the math..
  
  -You do the same thing over over and over again until the end
  
  Overall, this game can be 
 fun in 30-45 min sequences once a week... more than that and you'll get bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spike_v1t
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Its a no braner you just kill any thing that moves with a big sword yay 
  the blood guts and the mud angin yay whats mor to be said graphics could be better but wat can 
 you do
  
  blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood 
 guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts 
 and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and 
 the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the 
 mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud 
 blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood 
 guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts 
 and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and 
 the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the 
 mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud blood guts and the mud 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Beowulf places you in the role of Beowulf a Nordic "Rambo." The storyline tends to be utterly nonsense. 
 Putting that aside, the game plays like an arcade type game with noticeable flaws. The environments 
 were uninteresting and character control awkward and clunky. If you are into arcade style play 
 you will probably enjoy this game, however, arcade play usually appeals to younger, button mashing 
 audiences and this game carries an M rating for sexual themes and nudity.
  
  I personally found the environments too linear with only certain paths given to follow with no 
 alternate routes so that you could explore the environment. The arcade game style play that I mentioned 
 earlier was evident throughout the game from row, row, rowing your boat to keeping in rhythm with 
 drunken sailor songs. This game actually had me looking on the package for money back satisfaction 
 guarantee.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  The monster Grendel terrorizes King Hrothgar's kingdom, killing everything that dare comes in it's 
 way. What is the great king to do? There is but only one thing the king can do. Call the greatest 
 monster slayer the world has ever known. Time for Beowulf to become legend....
  
  Being a movie game people already have their doubts. Also being violent people want to slap a "God 
 of Warclone name on it. I found very little to compare to God of War other than the fact some 
 of the grab kills can be similar. This game has great voice acting (mostly from the stars of movie, 
 if not than they fooled me) , great graphics and a good story for what it is. The music set the 
 stage for every level just getting you pumped for battle. Yet I did find the original movie score 
 by Alan Silvestri adds a lot more to the gameplay.
  
  There is even a original song you and your Thanes sing to summon Grendel (Which the lyrics are 
 a little crude, but fits Beowulf's character) . The boss battles are a little on the easy side but 
 are still a impressive sight. Your Thanes will need to be looked after, but they do pull their 
 weight in battle. In between levels, you go to your castle where you can talk to your men and power 
 up before go off to slay the next threat to the kingdom. There are lots of weapons to collect, 
 some will break over time but it's up to you to find better stronger weapons. The boat rowing parts 
 are well done, though it would of been more fun to control you men instead of the singing mini 
 game. They are not that long but you'll be glad to control Beowulf on dry land again. 
  
  Beowulf belongs with the rare great movie to games like King Kong and Spiderman 3. It's a fun game 
 if you enjoyed the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Holy crap and I do mean crap! This game is ok at best but that also depends on your attention span. 
 Mine is very short when it comes to a God of War knock off. The graphics are the best thing about 
 this game but it's on a next gen system so that is what you expect. The game is very linier, ok 
 then why do I feel like I'm F-ing lost all the time. Your character through the progression of 
 the game will say Beowulf about 1 to 2 thousand times. Plus when an enemy is down you can perform 
 a ground finisher a nut stomp WHAT? Sound is well its there so I guess that's a good thing. Then 
 controls are crap it seems like for the whole game you are constantly button mashing or a stupid 
 rhythm button mashing. The controls do not seem to be fluent and accommodate the game as you play. 
 All and all this game is a good example of the studios trying to cash in on the movie with a copy 
 of a game. If you really, really like God of war and you need a fix. Well that could go either 
 way rent it don't even think of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Most people say the game sucks but it really reminds me of the old Lord of the Rings games on PS2. 
 The story follows and expands the 2007 film and has a great combat system and graphics. I really 
 enjoyed stabbing serpent dragons in the eye with spikes at the beginning of the game. The ratings 
 are based on valid points but fail to express the fun factor of the game which is a great 9.0 and 
 the life of Beowulf. The game takes place before the events of the movie and starts at the beginning 
 of the his legendary career of monster slaying. The game gets a definite 8.8 in my book. You have 
 to try it out for yourself and make up your own mind. I loved the movie which inspired me to play 
 the game and i am glad i did. I love finishing the levels and raking in Achievements. Nothing better 
 than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ansuk
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Just loaded this on my 360 and i knew it was going to be bad once the first race started. I lose 
 the race and then have to climb a cliff, beat up some crabs and then kill the sea monsters after 
 which im presented with a ship and to get the ship going you have to time button presses. Been 
 done before much? I kinda get the feeling that its trying very hard to emulate God Of War but making 
 a terrible job at it and comes accross more like God Of Pooh.
  
  The graphics are OK but when you are playing something in HD you expect the graphics to be amazing. 
 When there is speech there is an occassional lip move but thats about it.
  
  The controls are pretty intuitive but the execution is terrible, it just feels like im playing 
 something from the 90's on the PS2!
  
  Before buying this please rent it first and save yourself some money!
  
  I can only hope that 
 the movie can make up for a numbingly boring game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEEREAL187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  its grrrrrrrrrrreat i dont care what the reveiwers have to say about htis game its a very fun and 
 pretty well made game !!!! just sit down with it for an hour or so !! i put the game in and started 
 it on its hardest level so i could get the most out of the A. I to be on hard it feels just right 
 . I never played the game on normal so you might want to start on hard to get the most out of it 
 !! its a fun game dont know what the critics was thinking when they wrote the review but they drop 
 the ball on this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocomacoco
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Beowulf is a Norse warrior, young, rude and arrogant, plus drunk and mythical as those remote times 
 were, himself along is a package of a 30 man's strength, which you can use very well, at the expense 
 of a few gory combos.
  
  Your single goal as Beowulf is to search for fame and glory, with your small thane' s army, you 
 will roam the Norse world looking for something to kill, eventually, Barbarians and Monsters Lord-Of-The-Ring 
 type of them.
  
  Along the History line your achievements will be also balanced into what kind of King you are:
 
  
  A fair loved one...
  
  Or.. A Despotic hated One... Is your choice.
  
  Choose wisely...
  
  At the beginning of the story line you'll be launched into a hands on tutorial, 
 where you'll have to race like a monkey with another guy that wants to challenge your arrogant 
 self, after the race that honestly was really difficult to 
  keep up, you'll have to face a group of idiotic semi-giant crabs, as well as your rival, and the 
 one who kills more crabs will be chanted, obviously, this part is very easier than the previous 
 one.
  
  After that you'll face a group of underwater giant snakes, that you will not be able to defeat 
 without the Help of the first unlocked power:
  
  Carnal Fury: This Red view Raging power, will give you an insane momentum, where you can be able 
 to smash anything including a Giant Sea Snake.
  
  Now, i am not gonna spoil the story line for you, i'm just gonna give you some teasers, like there's 
 a bunch of beautiful sexy Angelina Jolie's alike characters that are going to seduce you, there's 
 a frankestein Troll that you're gonna have to dismember, and so on, you'll experience one of the 
 greatest bosses fights you have ever seen before, and some, even better than in God of War from 
 Scea Co.
  
  The gameplay is quite mature, and though graphically it looks like an enhance PS2 beat them up, 
 it has a new camera features that are awsome, and that is that for the first time in a game, the 
 things or characters, or enemies, doesn't matter what, close to the camera, will not look empty 
 holed, or bugged, they (Ubisoft) added a nice cinematic effect on the close object cameras, is 
 like the nice blurry effect you get when you get something to close to your eyes, and let me tell 
 you, that's a revolutionary perspective of a video game camera feature.
  
  Obviously this game is better than Conan, and it has a very unique style, currently all beat'em 
 up games is about mashing buttons, but this one is about your controller memory, you gotta press 
 specific buttons, not only on boss fight but every time you grapple something, in order to:
  
  B: Blow them up in bloody pieces with your fists
  
  Y: Dismember them (smash their brains 
 and spread them all over when in Carnal Fury mode)
  
  A: Steal their weapons, if they have one, and then kick them back their feet.
  
  X: Throw them 
 away somewhere.
  
  All this button special moves are achieved after you grapple a foe by smashing the B button several 
 times.
  
  Pretty cool uh?...
  
  The combo buttons are pretty simple combinations of the same buttons with another one.
  
  Commanding 
 your Thanes or soldiers is simple by filling up your hero meter, holding down LB and clicking the 
 command button of your need or choice they will "rejoice" with you in battle.
  
  You'll also have to aid them in battle, when you hear them cry out for help, no matter where you 
 are, and Gear's alike, pressing one button will view point you in real time, where you gotta go 
 to help your mates.
  
  You'll get several weapons and locked attacks that will unlocked so on you finish the different 
 episodes.
  
  Now the only thing i must add is that this game doesn't feel so tight, and the action is pretty 
 scarce, as are your foes, not very engaging combat controls, and the supporting Ai is pretty useless.
 
  
  The frame rate is not terrible but is quite unfinished sometimes.
  To many lags or holes on the story, and even though voice acting is quite accurate with the historic 
 time on the game, it lacks impact.
  
  When you get enraged in Carnal fury, you can't control yourself, therefore you'll also kill your 
 mates (they can be revived after you finished all the enemies in the area)
  
  the game is not short, is got two acts, divided in episodes, and i finished Act I on Legendary 
 difficulty. So, guess how long is gonna keep you busy. Around 8 to 10 hrs if you explore well to 
 get the rune stones for upgrades.
  
  Now, why i like this game??, because of the Bosses fights, they are quite epic and polish, giving 
 this game a whole new character in what's Carnage About.
  
  That's all for now, i recommend this game a buy if you're interested in great Boss's Fights and 
 as a Bonus to the film you might buy, Beowulf the Movie.
  
  Otherwise is well worth a weekend rent, as i consider it a Must Play, before next week's great 
 releases like Mass Effect, and if you wanna try something else than God of War.
  
  ZZZZZZZzzzzzzzzz.....
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
