-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Bumpin'
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/bigbumpin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online play can be OK.
 passable graphics and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely shallow.
 full-motion video intro sequence isn't nearly as good as in the other two Burger King games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 723 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: King Games
Developer: Blitz Games
Genre: Kart Racing
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big Bumpin' might have worked as a part of a large minigame collection, but on its own, it's sort 
 of lame. 

  Big Bumpin' is one of three games being sold at Burger King as part of a limited-time promotion. 
 Each game is available for around $4, provided you buy some food to go with it. And all three of 
 these games are pretty bad but weirdly compelling nonetheless. Rather than the despicable acts 
 usually associated with product placement -- the Burger King's appearance in Fight Night Round 3 
 immediately comes to mind -- these games are top-to-bottom advertisements. But because you know that 
 going in, it doesn't feel particularly dirty. All three games have been developed by Blitz Games, 
 the company responsible for the Xbox minigame collection Fuzion Frenzy. And it shows, because most 
 of these games have the depth of a minigame. Big Bumpin' is the most minigame-like of the three, 
 giving you several different styles to play while putting you behind the wheel of a bumper car. 
 The problem is that none of those styles are fun for more than one or two matches.  

          Don't forget to bump.     

  The action is the same across all of the different games. 
 You control a bumper car with the left stick and boost by pressing the A button. You can take on 
 the different games in a tournament format by themselves or in multiplayer or Xbox Live modes. 
 Then you can choose a character from a list containing the King himself, the Subservient Chicken, 
 a few generic Burger King window workers, and the King's on-again, off-again girlfriend, model-turned-bad-TV-hostess 
 Brooke Burke. With her role in EA's 2004 racing game, Need for Speed Underground 2, Burke is certainly 
 no stranger to the fast-paced world of illegal video game racing, so she's obviously a perfect 
 choice for Big Bumpin'.  

  The games give you different goals. Last man standing wants you to bump into the other cars, hopefully 
 knocking them out of the ring, into a hole, or into some saw blades or other decimating device. 
 Own the puck is hockey-like, but rather than getting goals, you simply want to touch the puck, 
 then not let anyone else touch it while a counter increases. The winner is the player who can control 
 the puck the longest. Bumpin' hockey is slightly more hockey-like than own the puck. It does, after 
 all, have hockey right in the name. Shockball is a hot-potato-style game, where you pass off an 
 electric ball to other players and hope that you don't have it when time expires. Power surge lights 
 up different spots on the map, which you must run over to collect power. Then you want to deliver 
 that power to a deposit point. Every time you hit something, you lose a bit of your charge, making 
 your delivery worth fewer points.  

  Big Bumpin' has 200 achievement points in it on the Xbox 360, putting it in line with Xbox Live 
 Arcade games. The points in Big Bumpin' are especially devious in that they seem tailor-made for 
 people who want to team up with their friends and work together to get all the points. Delivering 
 a full charge of 100 points in power surge gets you points, but the tight corridors mean that you'd 
 have to be playing against total morons for that to happen in a real game. The same goes for a 
 hockey achievement that gives you points if you win a game where the only goals you score were 
 scored by the other team's "mistakes." Unless you're specifically shooting for those achievements 
 with three like-minded friends over Xbox Live, it's unlikely that you'll ever get them.  

  While it's hard not to have a good time in a bumper car, it's hard to have a good time playing 
 Big Bumpin'. As part of a larger minigame collection, it might be passable, but its only appeal 
 here is that it's a weird fast-food tie-in that has some appeal as a potentially rare collectible. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Big Bumpin' sounded like a good idea and it was a first but it didn't really work out. The gameplay 
 was kind of fun but only the first time you play the gametype. There isn't many gametypes to choose 
 from and some of them are not fun. The only fun one I played was hockey, where you use your bumper 
 car to hit the puck in the other teams goal. It is really short and the gameplay ends as soon as 
 you beat it, the multiplayer is actually amusing but since no one is online and probably all your 
 friends will say "You're gay..." kind of makes multiplayer a no, but if you can find a friend nice 
 enough to take time out of his life to play a game you got at Burger King or a game store then 
 it is actually pretty fun. You will probably want to play another game after you played enough 
 with a friend though. The AI in this game is pretty good but can be stupid at some points. The 
 graphics on the other hand are phenomenal, other then that this game is really bad. Try getting 
 Sneak King to have more fun then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpSlayer
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The other two BK games are great investments. Truly! But this is the black sheep of the family. 
 The title screen is about the best feature of this game. The humor of the king is nearly absent 
 (unlike in the other 2) which already wounds this title. But some game modes are OK. Notice I said 
 OK, not cool or great, but OK. This is overshadowed by the major letdown- THE GOSHDARN COMPUTER 
 OPPONENTS!!!!!!!!!!! The only modes that are truly fair are Hockey and... um.... uh.... THAT IS 
 THE ONLY FAIR MODE! Even in this mode, your AI teammate will score for the enemies more times than 
 they will. But when it is everyman for himself- expect to throw your controller out the window. 
 Shockball is a mode where you pass a bomb-and the computers gang up on you. Power (something or 
 other- the one like capture the flag) is where you try to score, but the AI gang up on you and 
 let other players slide by. Last Man Standing is where you try to fight the computers and the AI 
 gangs up on you. I'm sensing a pattern here. The other modes just cement my point further. Although 
 the Human Multiplayer is a smidgeon better, it's not enough to save this pile of stale Whoppers. 
 The controls are simple, but useless as you'll lose anyway. This game also has the least content 
 of all the BK games. The graphics are nice. The arenas are varied. But the only true unlockables 
 are 2 (count 'em 2) bumper cars. 
  
  Final Words: There is a reason some games are $1, and this is it. If you are thinking of buying 
 this, rile up a few more bucks and purchase one of the other games (PocketBike Racers is an excellent 
 competitive game) . Otherwise, try it then use it as a coaster (most stores will give you about 
 a dime for it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngusIII
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely dreadful Big BumpinTruly horrible game. .. I bought it thinking it would be fun for 
 young kids. It was not fun, could be played in a couple of hours with no replay value. I can see 
 why it was $2 at the used game store. Plus the Burger King king is really sick looking when you 
 think about it. 
  
  My kids hated it and so luckily I could exchange it for something else. I am not sure how going 
 into detail about how horrible it truly is will help since there are enough bad reviews of this 
 truly awful bad big bumpin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  It is a top-down all out odd and confusing game. It was fun for about 2 and a half minutes. Oh 
 well, i just bought it to expand my collection of games. In this game you chose a character and 
 bump each other.... Thats it . . . . . . . . . . . no seriously . . . . . . . . . . . thats all 
 there is to it. . . . . . I guess some of the characters are funny and certian modes are fun for 
 a while but overall if you really wanna spend 4 bucks (3 if you buy it used) then be my guest. 
 . . . . . . . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma_rc_01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Big Bumpin is a minigame collection, but with bumper cars, yeah, thats it. There are a couple 
 of minigames, normal deathmatch where you aim to be the last car standing, some sort of hockey 
 but with bumper cars, hot potato and more.
  
  There are only five arenas in the game, most of them are filled with obstacles like pits of doom, 
 giant saws and more, all I can say is thats one crazy carnival. Unfortunately, only about two 
 game types are playable in each arena, and that limits the fun a lot.
  
  Big Bumpin features the famous Burger King mascots as well as no-name customizable characters 
 that are super lame. The game also features a couple of bumper cars, mostly just different versions 
 of the same one, but there are no speed, power, endurance, number of cup-holder differences in 
 them, you just pick your favourite color and your off.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is pretty boring when you play alone, just like most other minigame collections, 
 but when you get a couple of buddies and start trash-talking, its really fun.
  
  All-in-all, Big Bumpin is a pretty fun game when youre playing with people, and for the price 
 you could do worse, like buying Pocketbike Racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Big Bumpin' was the worst out of all the Burger King games. I played it when I first got to see 
 what it was like, but then I saw it wasn't very good. There weren't that many game types and there 
 was only a few different maps. There was also some sort of a tournament and it was really boring.
 
  
  The achievements look like they take a lot of time, but there are a couple that are easy, and you 
 need Multiplayer for some of them. And as with the other two there are only 200 available gamerscore.
 
  
  The Multiplayer isn't very good either I used it a few times and the only good game type was Icehocky.
 
  
  I would recommend that you don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  the first thing I have to say is ... OMG 4 bucks. yes.. this is probly the best king game because 
 of the multi player. its so fun at partys and the 5 or 6 game modes are simpley fun the graphics 
 are just amzing espeshly the shiny ground. the value in these game is mind blowing all three of 
 them. but this one is the one you should get first. its the one i got first. its realy worth your 
 4 bucks.
  over all this game is an ausome value great graphings and multiplay worth playing of YEARS... and 
 YEARS ect. p. s if you dont like this game you probly shouldent buy the other two 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  This game remembers me when I was a child and i went to the fairs and there were the Bumping cars. 
 The game is quite ok but is vague in graphics and sound like all BK Games. It's fun for a while 
 but after you play several times it tends to get boring and repetitive, ist has online gaming so 
 you can partner up with your friends to have a bumping ride. It is a very colorful game though 
 but other than that if you would like to ry it buy it for $1 that is alI I can say about this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain horrible the only thing good is it is very cheap and has achievments, but 
 even the achievment list is terrible. The games mixed up playmodes make no sense and even if you 
 do understand it you'll eventually find out theres no sense of playing. The games graphics aren't 
 great either. Though the online mode is actually ok but besides that there is nothing else worth 
 playing. Just because you see it has a godd price dosent mean its worth it i truthfully think the 
 game should be a promo with the meal at Burger King besides buying the meal then paying an extra 
 5 dollars. You can get Poket Bike racing for the same price and thats a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fell_One
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised when I read the gamespot reviews. I thought, if nothing else, that the BK 
 games would get a high rating in the value department. For $4, if it keeps you entertained for 
 an hour, that makes it a 10 value in my mind. So here's my review of Big Bumpin'.
  
  Big Bumpin' is a fun game. It's not on par with big name releases like Gears or Halo or Rainbow 
 Six or even Dance Dance Revolution, but it's fun. It has a few different game types to mix things 
 up, but they're all pretty much the same. The graphics aren't good, and the sound is kinda lame. 
 Still, it's fun, it's $4, and that makes it a good game in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payback123
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Why is everyone knocking against this game? The fact that it's 5 dollars should tell you something 
 ie: it's not Halo. Of course it's not going to be as in depth as everyone would like but for a 
 part game it's good. Basically it's just different variations on bumper cars. Hockey, Last man 
 standing and other unique events that ok, aren't that great. The music is extremely annoying and 
 you'll definately want to keep the volume on low. The menu screen features a real actor in a King 
 costume that's kind of creepy actually, they should toss that. Still, if you know that it's not 
 going to be amazing going in, you'll enjoy it. Give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrillo721
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was alright. I thought it was cool that Burger King was making xbox games so i bought 
 all three of the games. Overall this game doesnt suck too bad. This game was at least better than 
 Sneak King. This game is better though on multiplayer. The best mini-game for this game is the 
 ockey mini-game. There are other mini-games like rumble, bumper cars and others. This game is better 
 than Sneak King but not as fun as Pocket bike racer. So overall not too sucky for a game make by 
 a fastfood chain. But i wouldnt exactly recomend this game. It is a little fun if your bored thats 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10- The game plays good you just steer your little car around and thats about it. The 
 power ups help you out a lot sometimes.
  
  Graphics 7/10- The graphics are average nothing special just like all the BK games. They are actually 
 almost as good as a lot of regular games.
  
  Sound 5/10- The sound is annoying to say the least the sound of the vehicles are annoying as they 
 are on Pocketbike Racer.
  
  Value 4/10- The only fun thing about this game is the online play with friends on XBL or locally 
 on your own system.
  
  Tilt 7/10- The game is no fun on single player the enjoyable part is the multiplayer the achievements 
 are very hard to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skorupskid
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  this game is actually not a bad game. It is better then a lot of xbl arcade games. It is only $5 
 so it is definately worth it.
  
  Gameplay- All you do is race, play hockey, or a game like hot potato where you dont want to be 
 hit by the player with the hot potato. it is kind of fun to play these games with a few friends.
 
  
  Graphics- They dont look bad at all, they are what you would expect out of a $5 game.
  
  Sound- Certain characters you pick, will say funny stuff and the music is pretty nice.
  
 
  Value- Well again its $5 so its definatelt worth $5.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- I dont know what to put so cheese. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  A while back Burger King put out three promotional advergames for Xbox 360. Priced at $3.99 each, 
 these games were imagined as camp titles to attract an irony-loving college-aged crowd. Well, it 
 worked on me, I bought them the same day I bought my 360.
  
  Big Bumpin' receives the Special Olympics Bronze Medal. Featuring five different bumper car based 
 games, such as hockey, last man standing, and shockball, the gameplay oscillates between tiresome 
 and broken. Hockey is probably the worst offender, as I found it almost impossible to score a goal 
 on purpose without the Magnet power-up. The most infamous part of the game may be the Knockout 
 King achievement, which was so horribly ill conceived, it was thought to be literally impossible 
 for months by all 360 players until Blitz Games (the developer) wrote out a step-by-step guide 
 of how to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a crazy game made by the vreaters of the Whopper. This game consists of basically 
 a bunch of modes and tournaments. In all of the games you are in a bumper cart. The only problem 
 I find with this game is the horrible controls. If you know someone who owns this game, okay with 
 them online for points. Otherwise the online is pointless. I would only keep this game as a collector's 
 item. I reccomend one of the other Burger King games over this one. Basically, get this game for 
 teh points/ collector's item , but stay away from it if you're looking for a game with really good 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Big Bumpin' is one of three games being sold at Burger King as part of a limited-time promotion. 
 Each game is available for around $4, provided you buy some food to go with it. And all three of 
 these games are pretty bad but weirdly compelling nonetheless. Rather than the despicable acts 
 usually associated with product placement -- the Burger King's appearance in Fight Night Round 3 
 immediately comes to mind -- these games are top-to-bottom advertisements. But because you know that 
 going in, it doesn't feel particularly dirty. All three games have been developed by Blitz Games, 
 the company responsible for the Xbox minigame collection Fuzion Frenzy. And it shows, because most 
 of these games have the depth of a minigame. Big Bumpin' is the most minigame-like of the three, 
 giving you several different styles to play while putting you behind the wheel of a bumper car. 
 The problem is that none of those styles are fun for more than one or two matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final13
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Well.. lets see. We have a game that is worth $4 but that's after you buy a value meal so your 
 looking around $8 dollars the cheapest. Anyway big bumpin' is a pretty basic mini game game. You 
 have a certain number of characters, none un-lockable, and a certain number of bumper cars, two 
 un-lockable. So you choose a character and a bumper car and play one of of 4 or 5 mini games. The 
 games are basic, you have hockey, own the puck, survival and a few other games. You also have multi-player. 
 You have local which is just you and 1-3 friends playing. Then you have Xbox Live which is the 
 exact same thing except on-line. As the achievement points go, all are fairly easy to obtain except 
 a few which require a high amount of something. Thank you for reading my review of Big Bumpin' 
 and please don't forget to leave feedback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofthecloset
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Like Sneak King, gamers seem to constantly confuse this game for what it actually is.. a novelty. 
 If you consider a fun factor/point system that you would use on, say, Halo, then of course this 
 game is near the bottom. But for what it's worth, and it's not worth that much ($4) , you're actually 
 getting quite an impressive game.
  
  The XBOX 360 hasn't seem too many releases outside of the launch titles. So it's safe to say that 
 for many people, the wow factor is still there. And the graphics on Big Bumpin' are pretty darn 
 good. Mixed together with a few fun mini games and an 80's glam rock soundtrack, you've got yourself 
 a steal in your possession.
  
  In this game, you're able to choose from a variety of characters. Obviously, you can't go wrong 
 with the King, but the Big Cluckin' Chicken (inappropriately labelled the Subservient Chicken) 
 is a great option as well. Or maybe you're partial to the commercial favorite Whopper Jr. Brooke 
 Burke's a savory choice as well. You can select from a few different games played in different 
 rinks either solo or with a friend. For the Bumpin' savvy, this game supports an online feature.
 
  
  Outside of the game's intent and purpose, there admittedly is not too much to say about this game. 
 But it serves its purpose. Even if you're completely let down by the gameplay or monotonous features, 
 just remember the pocket change you scraped together for it. You want a let-down, play the newest 
 MK game. You want value intertwined with Kingly fun and an unlimited supply of chuckles? Play Big 
 Bumpin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostar537
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic for the price. It is a great game just to have a fun time with your pals. 
 there is not much to the game but that is alright with me. the graphics are alright and the music 
 is ok. The game is better than it seems. what i thought is Oh this burger king game must be a piece 
 of **** if it only $4, but luckily i have a who bought the game before and i got to try it out 
 and it was so fun.
  
  This game will give you a good laugh because how fun and cheap it is.
  
  Although not many 
 people play online you can find matches for great fun. Such as bumper hockey, elimination, bump 
 out and others (sry i forgot)
  
  this game is $4 give it a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafonsecais
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I got the game thinking that it would be cool just to play it but I was disappointed by the whole 
 game. The graphics sucked, the game play was horrible. Burger King was a big wast of time playing. 
 In my opinion this game should have never been release. The opening screen was designed well trying 
 to creat a hype before the game, whitch it did but it was a little corney switching from real to 
 game. They should have just made the title with the animated version of The King because the real 
 one was just creepy. I can understand that this seem apealing to the younger audiances but they 
 should have made it just a little easyer because it took me about a half hour to just figure it 
 out fully. The price of the game is really good because its not like the game should be $10.00. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowchaos91
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  i know a lot of people are complaining about this game. But here's what you need to remember that 
 it's a game from a fast food restaurant that'll break a five. i mean yeah at times i did lose sight 
 of my character but hey i had fun playing this especially when i played hockey with one of my friends. this 
 is a pretty easy game to pick up and play and its a lot of fun and can be a good game to play if 
 you want to play for about five minutes or so. now it did get a little glitchy at points but nothing 
 to bad an the AI at times will either gang up on you or just act stupid. but igf your heading out 
 to burger king with some extra cash i'd have to recomend picking this one up for some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  This shiny game only has its graphics to support it. Everything else in this game is pretty much 
 broken beyond repair:
  
  Gameplay: 2/10
  
  Pulling off being the worst gameplay experience, Bing Bumpin' makes me so sad on how awful they 
 screwed up this game's Bumper Car mechianics. This first thing I hate is the controls. The bumper 
 cars have a hard time following your control stick movements, making it hard to control the cars. 
 To make matters worse, the game has a very cheap AI problems. The AI likes to make things expecially 
 difficult when trying to play the game. In games like hockey and own the puck you will find that 
 the AI keeps the puck jammed into a corner and surrounded, leaving you out of the circle (yea, that 
 most of the time includes your partner AI) . The AI also can think way too far ahead, making it 
 seem that most of the time, it makes sure it wins over you. God, I hate you, AI! To finish up what 
 this horrid excuse ofr gameplay is, The game also features power-ups, which actually can make the 
 game cheaper, harder, or dumber... take your choice...
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  the ONLY thing good about this game is the great graphics it has. The shine of the floor to the 
 designs of the arema are very well done. However, the game has a slight dull effect due to the 
 character models not really fitting this type of shine. so its Next gen and last gen mixed together.
 
  
  Sound: 3/10
  The tracks are an ok listen at first and they have a somewhat good variety of them, however, there 
 really isn't a good beat in the game, and with no vocal tracks, you can find the experience becoming 
 more dull. luckily, the 360 can put in custom tracks for you. Also, the voice actor is very annoying 
 and bumper car effects are ok.
  
  Value: 4/10
  
  Like Sneak king, this game makes you question the 4 bucks spent on it plus that equally horrible 
 meal you had to purchase with it. This alone should give you reason enough why the game is horrible. 
 However, once more, its only 4 bucks. Are you really going to miss 4 bucks?
  
  Tilt: 1/10
  
  No love for this game at all. I was on the edge about the whole concept already, 
 but it did end up being a very boring and poorly created game in the end. I really really reccommend 
 to you to get Pocketbike racer instead. its 4 bucks and gives you a hell of a time.
  
  overall: 2.9/10
  
  Avoid at all costs. The game is so poorly made it will make your head fall 
 off. If you want a BK game, get Pocketbike racer. its the only game in the collection that doesn't 
 make you want to kill yourself for buying it and wasting that 4 bucks. Besides, who thought bumper 
 cars would be a cool game anyways? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCB19
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game is very entertaining only for the first ten minutes on single player, but is more entertaining 
 online or with a couple of friends. Bad graphics, decent game play. I give it a 7 out of 10 If 
 you are looking for a game to pick up for the weekend then you should really buy this game it is 
 a good bargain. Thank you for reading this review and enjoy this game, Wow it sure does take a 
 while to get a hundred characters into this review. Nope still haven't gotten it yet. This should 
 probably do it. Ok this is getting very old very fast i wish that we didn't have to right such 
 long reviews. Wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanj23
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  I thought this game would be fun but its not. This is one of the worst games I have played. I can 
 see why its only $3.99. For me it is hard to see and control the car. I have played games from 
 super Nintendo to xbox to Nintendo ds, and this is one of the worst I have ever played. Save you 
 $3.99 and put it towards a much better racing game like PGR3 or Test Drive Unlimited. All around 
 this game sucks!!!!!!!!!! DON'T BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!! Save you'r money!!!!! And you'r time!!! AND 
 GET A GOOD RACING GAME!!!!!!!! I highly recommend Test Drive Unlimited! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlargon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Big Bumpin' by far exceeds the other two games in the Burger King series by offering incredibly 
 simple and fun gameplay. Suprisingly enough, bumper cars can be fun to ride at any age! Their are 
 plenty of game modes for your $4, and a few levels. Game modes include hockey and a hot potato 
 type game.
  
  The graphics aren't half bad, with a quality on par with most Xbox Live Arcade games, for an even 
 cheaper price. In addition, the soundtrack is fun, if not great.
  
  The achievements in the game are hard to get, so don't expect to earn all 200 points in the first 
 few minutes!
  
  The game is simply a good deal: pay $4 for a few hours of gameplay. You even get a 48 hour Xbox 
 Live trial! You should be able to get a few hours of fun from this game, and it makes for a great 
 party type game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwickstrom1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Big Bumpin' is a decent game, just like the other BK Games, but it stands out from the others with 
 it's overly challenging scenarios. Big Bumpin' features many fun game modes, like Own the Puck, 
 Last Man Standing, Hockey, Shockball, and a few others. It also features many of the BK characters, 
 including The King, Whopper Jr, and Brooke Burke, and a create a driver feature! Big Bumpins' gameplay 
 is decent, but with a little more effort i could be great! My main concern is that the controls 
 seem complicated, mainly the steering. You steer your bumper car with the left analog stick, but 
 every movement you make changes where the camera is following you, which sometimes makes it difficult 
 to reach an area in the arena that you need to be at. That's why I gave Big Bumpins' gameplay a 
 6 out of 10.
  
  Big Bumpins' online play is very fun as well. It features all of the same game modes in offline 
 play, but with real live opponents! It throws a challenge in there, along with the online achievements 
 that you can work for. Big Bumpin's graphics are good compared to the other BK Games, but pitiful 
 when you compare them to other Xbox 360 games. The characters have extremely lanky, choppy looking 
 bodies, and the bumper cars are no better. They're also very choppy. The game arenas though look 
 suprisingly good. They're very colorful, detailed, and not choppy. Becuase of those reasons, I 
 gave Big Bumpins' graphics a 7 out of 10.
  
  Big Bumpins' sound is great! The bumper cars acceleration on the slippery arena surfaces and their 
 collisions with their fellow opponents are very loud like in real life. The silly in game music 
 and commentating is loud and easy to hear as well. For those reasons, I gave Big Bumpins' sound 
 a phenominal 8 out of 10!
  
  Big Bumpins' achievements are at a medium difficulty. Some you can get right away, like win an 
 online match, and some take a while, like 100 kills in Last Man Standing mode. Al of them are fun 
 to work for though. I currently have 6 or 7 of the achievements in the game, for around 100 of 
 the game's 200 available gamerpoints. I highly recommend that you check out Big Bumpin' if you 
 haven't already. Don't let the 6.8 score I gave the game fool you. Big Bumpin' is a great, fun 
 game for all ages that's worth it's meager $4 price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  big bumpin is a silly game that can keep you busy for only a few hours. But if you have xbox live 
 it can keep you busy for more than 20 hours. The graphics are astounding and game play is very 
 good, it still doesnt appeal to most viewers though... It has acheivments to make it better. Play 
 from a few characters and make your own. Such as the king and a whoper. Theres a tournament mode 
 than theres a free play. get around 100 acheivment points if you have xbox lilve, and if you don't 
 youll only get around 25 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Online play; 200 achievement for the taking.
  The Bad: Lacks after a couple of games, not much to keep you coming back for more. It is another 
 one of those games that Burger King is selling for a limited time. But me ready to suffer from 
 lots of in game advertising. You should expect it because, you just bought it from Burger King. 
 Unlike the others this one seems to be all mini-games, you can expect that because it is from Blitz 
 Games. In this game you play as the King and you control a bumper car. The game has several modes 
 of which you can choose. It will be for awhile, but it doesn't last for more that three of four 
 rounds. The game has Xbox Live functions. You can go up against other players in tournaments. In 
 Xbox Live and multiplayer you can choose you character and edit to them to your liking, and nice 
 add in but again it doesn't do much to help the game in the long run. For the mini-games you have 
 Own the Puck in this game the point is not to score but to keep the puck the longest and allow 
 your meter to charge up. Last Man Standing 's point is to knock the other players out and be the 
 last one in the ring, not to hard right? Shockball my favorite has the players pass around an electric 
 ball, and the last person with it, well the ball explodes on them. Power Surge wants you to collect 
 energy from spots on the map and deliver to your collection post. If you hit something, well you 
 just caused yourself to lose some of that energy. The last game is Hockey, you actually have a 
 puck and must score on the other team.
  
  The game comes with 200 achievement points for your taking. If you really want them the best way 
 to is to team up with a friend and take them the easy way rather then earn them the hard way. While 
 the game may be fun it lacks after awhile, thats why coming back to play the game seems insane. 
 As a full fledged game this doesn't fit the picture, but it was $4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  (I apologize if Gamespot combines my paragraphs. This is not intentional.)
  
  Graphics
  
  Big Bumpin's graphics are very colorful, and most of the lighting and particle effects look 
 good. There are several different arenas, each with distinct design and colors. The frame-rate 
 is solid throughout single player and multiplayer play. There is a decent amount of detail in the 
 different characters and bumper cars, but nothing spectacular. Overall the graphics are about on 
 the same level as the first Fusion Frenzy. Impressive for a $4 game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  There are nine different bumper car-based minigames, consisting of five different game variants: 
 Last Man Standing, Own the Puck, Shockball, Ice Hockey, and Power Surge. All are extremely fun, 
 and a blast to play with friends or a computer opponent. The AI in this game is pretty tough, and 
 different difficulty levels are available. The main single player component is five tournaments 
 which slightly increase in difficulty. These tournaments can be finished pretty quickly, but they 
 can also be played with friends. The game controls are tight and simple. Online is competitive 
 and fun, as is split-screen. The different minigames are creative and offer a good variety. Sound
 
  
  Different sound effects are basic and fitting. The music is arcade/fair themed, which is also fitting. 
 Value
  
  200 Achievement Points to earn, a great multiplayer, and overall simple and fun minigames make 
 Big Bumpin' a pretty lengthy game. Especially considering what you pay.
  
  Verdict
  
  Big Bumpin' offers fun minigames that just about anyone can enjoy. However, it feels like a small 
 portion of a larger collection. But just keep in mind that you only paid $4. It should suffice 
 until Fusion Frenzy 2 comes out early next year. Big Bumpin' receives a 7.4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadman618
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game really doesn't add much to the collection. It's games are basically repetitive and boring 
 and the achievements are odd. I had hoped for something that could be played as a Party Game but 
 really is too basic to be fun. It comes across as an Atari 2600 game with really good graphics. 
 Now I will not complain, since I only spent $3.99 on it. There is about 30 minutes of fun before 
 it becomes old. Of the three games in the Burger King Series, only buy this one after you get the 
 other two. It might have some value as a collectors item in 100 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This is my third Burger King game and I must say that this is the best one........ provided you 
 have Xbox Live. Out of the three games, this is really only fun playing with other people. I guess 
 you could say that about 'Pocketbike Racer', but I didn't find that fun with or without other people. 
 But anyways......
  
  The goal of this game is to basically beat a bunch of different gameplay modes that involve you 
 using your bumper car. Of couse, just like the other BK games, it's a very simplistic game without 
 much lasting power. If you have Xbox Live, however, there is a good deal of fun to be had here. 
 The problem is that most of the games are pretty crummy when playing by yourself. On top of that, 
 the achievements are mostly focused on the Xbox Live side of things and a few are just downright 
 stupid. There is an achievement that you get while playing the 'hockey' game and you only get goals 
 when the other team knocks the puck in their own goal. Huh? Isn't the point of the game to score 
 goals yourself? Lame.
  
  This is a game that should've been a hidden mini-game in a regular retail title. But I guess for 
 $4, it's not like you are getting ripped-off here. If you like playing goofy games online with 
 your friends, then you might dig this. For me, it didn't really keep my attention all that long. 
 I guess I could go on complaining about the lack of fun in the single-player game, but then I remember 
 that I only paid $4 for this. It's definately worth checking out if you are out of Live Arcade 
 games to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Big Bumpin' for the XBox 360 is extremely fun in small doses, but probably not going to be played 
 for extended periods of time. The levels look surprisingly detailed and good for a $4 game. The 
 game play itself is extremely easy to comprehend and use, using the left control stick to move 
 and the A button to boost. The game features about 5 gametypes, such as Hockey and Last Man Standing. 
 The game is best played with 3 friends because the enemy AI is a bit off. Such as, in one game 
 you must go from one end of the map to another to get points while the enemies hit you to try and 
 make you loose the energy. When you have the energy, all 3 AI will go immediately after you and 
 you probably will loose the energy after a couple boost hits from all 3 AI, but when one of the 
 AI get the energy, the COMS decide it is now more important to go for the power ups scattered through 
 the level, thus the COM gets the points and you loose. All in all, this is a great game to play 
 with 3 friends or online to get a quick multiplayer fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phrog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The Big Bumpin Burger King game is as simple as they get. The game features about 12 different 
 multiplayer areanas, with a few types of multiplayer games. The multiplayer aspect is by far the 
 most enjoyable part of the game. The multiplayer games remind me of Fusion Frenzy for the Xbox. 
 The games include bumping you opponents off of the platform, two-on-two bumper hockey (my favorite) , 
 caring an object to another location without being destroyed by your opponents, racing, and controlling 
 the puck. The bottom line on this game is that it is good -not great, fun to play, and its cheap. 
 For $4, I have definitely gotten my money's worth. Phrog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fjackel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Me and my friends had so much fun playing this game one night! it is a great party game and Burger 
 King is Awsome for selling this game for only 4 bucks when you buy an extra value meal!!!! I Love 
 This GAME! It is so easy to learn just one thing you need to know to plaay the game and that is 
 that the thunmbstick moves your character. and if you don't have it you should go to burger king 
 right now to buy it because if not you will regret it big time. I am a huge halo fan and Gears 
 of war so don't think i am a nerd for liking this game it isnt gay i thought it would be first 
 but it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Now this is another fun game that BK has brought to us for a crazy low price. Again I think this 
 title could have sold for $19.99. This one is more of an online game. It has a decent single player 
 but going online with this one is loads of fun. Basically your in a bumper car and you need to 
 know the other players out of the rink.
  
  Graphics - 7
  Not bad at all coming from a place that sells grub. Nice reflections on the floor of the rink too.
 
  
  Sound - 8
  Another sweet soundtrack keeps the tempo flowin and the karts bumpin.
  
  Value - 7
  Like I said before, this one is fun both online and offline. You will definately play 
 this more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Big Bumpin' is another of the three games that burger king has released for the holidays. If you're 
 wondering if you should spend your four bucks on this one, then read this review to find out.
 
  
  Gameplay: A couple of different modes such as last man standing and own the puck. Nothing special. 
 At least it has a Xbox Live feature.
  
  Graphics: Awesome for a $4.00 game. The graphics aren't bad at all. The whole carnival setting 
 is used with great effect.
  
  Sound: Okay, I guess. It does have some great audio tracks and feels like you're actually in some 
 kind of carnival.
  
  Overall, buy it, it's a great game. Plus it has unlockable achievements. Also get Sneak King and 
 Pocket Bike Racer too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You pick a character and a car and then play a variety of different games involving bumper 
 cars. There are about three or four different arenas (settings) and then different games in each 
 of those. Specifically the games range from last man standing (be the last alive) to hockey. There 
 are a few others as well. The physics work surprisingly well, but the AI is another story. It's 
 impossibly difficult. Thankfully Blitz Games included Xbox Live play. Although as these are only 
 a Burger King promotion, I'm not sure how long the servers will stay online.
  
  Sound: Some catchy tunes, nothing spectacular. Sound effects get the point across.
  
  Replay 
 Value: Getting through the single player (tournaments) took me about two-three hours. If your going 
 for achievements though, expect to spend another two or so, and then there's the online component.
 
  
  Basically, you can pickup this game for $4-5, and in my opinion, it's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, that's right. Burger King has made a video game, and it was fun. Bumper cars, bumper hockey, 
 and all of the characters ranging from a BK employee to The King, Big Bumpin' is just plain fun. 
 For $4 with a value meal, it's the perfect purchase and you actually get Acheivement points which 
 are a bit challenging but keep you striving to get them so you don't look bad not getting all of 
 the BK game achievements. I'll be sure to pick up the other two Burger King games, Sneak King being 
 the one I have my eye on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  THis has to be hands down the best budget title Ive ever played. I dont think I have ever gotten 
 a full game with online multiplayer for $4... and then Big Bumpin' comes to my hands.
  
  The game is simply to understand. You hop into a bumper car and fight your way through various 
 mini games, much like a Fusion Frenzy, except with bumper cars, and better games. Games vary from 
 hockey to keeping the puck the longest or trying to stay alive the longest. These all provide many 
 good moments of gaming. There arent really any complications to the gameplay, you use boost when 
 you want to, and pick up occasional power ups.
  
  The graphics are nothing to sneeze at. They are actually down farely well for a promotional budget 
 game. THe colors will pounce out at you when you play this game and you feel like your immersed 
 in a carnival game.
  
  Overall this is a great budget game. It will give you some time to kill with entertaining mini 
 games, and you can take your skills online. So dont sit around, go get a Whooper and down it, then 
 pop this game into your Xbox or Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  The Good: It's $4 friggen dollars, it's a good size collection of enjoyable mini-games, achievements 
 and online multiplayer, customization features are good, graphics are suprisingly well done.
  
  The Bad: The AI is tough to beat in single player, there weren't that many people online at 
 first, got laggy a couple times.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When Burger King first unvailed that they would be getting into the gaming market, Gamespot editors 
 and users made fun of the idea, calling it a ploy to get gamers to buy more whoppers. Are they 
 laughing now? Big Bumpin' is the first of three games published by King Games an developed by Bitz 
 Games, the developer of Fusion Frenzy. First, let me say that this game shares a lot of qualities 
 with the original Xbox party game. First, it's a collection of mini games, some which are directly 
 taken from Fusion Frenzy, while others are creative new ones. Second, you have a variety of querky 
 characters to choose from inlcuding The King, Whopper Jr. and Brooke Burk. Third, it plays well 
 and is a lot of fun multiplayer. That's where the similarities end. In addition to all the stuff 
 mentioned above, Big Bumpin features a character customization mode, where you can take an already 
 made character and make a custom version for online play. It's not Oblivion's, but it's a start. 
 It also has a great online mode where gamers can play against each other, or have two on two Bumper 
 Hockey matches, which are tons of fun. Every game type: Hockey, Last Man Standing, Shockwave and 
 Own The Puck, are interesting and fun in their own ways and keep the game enjoyable and worth purchasing. 
 It also features achievements for 360 owners to earn. Unfortunately, these are not easy to earn. 
 One is to beat the final single player tournament, which is harder than it looks, because the AI 
 can be wicked tough to beat sometimes. The visuals and sound are actually really good. The environments 
 look great on the 360 and the sound effects aren't shabby either. Overall, at the price of $4, 
 this is a steal. So go buy a Whopper and this game today!!!
  
  Gameplay: It's a collection of very enjoyable mini-games, along with a cool character customization 
 mode and great online play.
  
  Graphics: Suprisingly very good on the 360. Apparently, it looks phenomonal on a big flatscreen 
 TV...
  
  Sound: Good, the king makes cracks about how the game is going and is amusing from time to time.
 
  
  Value: It's $4 with purchase of a value meal. That's a prize too good to pass up.
  
  Final Thoughts: Wake up with the King... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  So I go to Burger King the other day and decide to pick up some good eats. After devouring my BK 
 Triple Stacker and washing it down with an ice cold Fanta, I fired up my Xbox and began playing 
 one of the greatest budget games ever. For $3.99, Big Bumpin is worth your time and calorie intake.
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY: In Big Bumpin, you pick or create your character of choice, and throw them in your favorite 
 bumper car for some high octane bumpin' action. The single player game is a series of 5 tournaments 
 or your choice of a basic single event. Tournaments consist of a series of different mini games, 
 each with a varying degree of challenge and strategy. What it really boils down to is just pure 
 crazyness and fun. Whether your fighting for control over a disc, scoring goals on your opponents, 
 or struggling to survive in a last man standing match, things are always fun. The controls are 
 simple: Use the analog stick to move and press the A button to boost. They are basic, yet masterful. 
 For a bargain game that comes with a value meal at such a cheap price, the gameplay in Big Bumpin' 
 is great.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS: Keeping in mind that this is a budget title, the graphics are actually very good. There 
 is a variety of arenas, and they are flashy enough to get the job done. Lights, explosions, and 
 abundant amounts of color greatly compliment the games carnivell-like theme.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND: The sound of bumper cars is hard to describe. The sound effects are pretty good, and the 
 majority of the soundtrack fits the hectic action perfectly. Overall, things sound the way they 
 should.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE: The single player game can be beaten in about an hour, but since the game is essentially 
 a series of mini games, replay value is definitely apparent. The overall presentation for a bargain 
 fast food meal bonus game is fantastic. And oh yes, I almost forgot: Xbox Live Multiplayer.... 
 if have 3 friends, bumper cars has never been so fun.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TILT: Look at it this way, the price is great, and your getting the opportunity to down a delicious 
 meal at the same time you pick up this budget masterpiece. Even if you somehow hate this game, 
 you can't hate eating. No one hates eating, eating is great. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
