-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bionicle Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/bionicleheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Occasionally humorous cutscenes.
 some attractive visual elements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring, repetitive gameplay.
 ports nearly all of Lego Star Wars 2's mechanics.
 not much beyond the single-player mode.
 the same music track looped for the vast majority of the game.
 when did invincibility stop being a cheat code?.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 5.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 210 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Nov 15, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Not even the allure of shiny robots with guns for arms can liven up this mind-numbingly simplistic 
 and repetitive over-the-shoulder shooter. 

  In a perfect world, everyone everywhere will pay due homage to the supremacy of maniacal, gun-toting 
 robots. Unfortunately, this world is not perfect. Bionicle Heroes, Traveller's Tales' latest game 
 featuring the Lego license, does not do justice to its premise. In fact, Traveller's Tales seems 
 to have given Bionicle Heroes no thought at all. The game's core mechanics closely mimic, if not 
 straight up replicate, those found in the company's recent Lego Star Wars hits. Less-than-innovative 
 mechanics not withstanding, the mind-numbingly simplistic and repetitive gameplay, as well as a 
 dearth of worthwhile added content, means you'll have experienced everything this game has to offer 
 by the end of the first stage.  

          Bionicle Heroes skips right past button masher, straight to button holder.     

  Playing 
 out over the course of several books, comics, and movies, the Bionicle Lego story enjoys an ever-growing 
 library of source material. And if you're familiar with the lore, you'll know that Bionicle Heroes 
 mostly follows the Bionicle Legends story arc. However, if the Bionicle name is new to you, you'll 
 have the stage set by a brief narration at the beginning of the game. And that's about it. Because 
 the only other "voice talent" you'll hear throughout the rest of the game is a few grunts from 
 the menacing yet simple-minded enemy Piraka in cutscenes, you'll be left to infer what exactly 
 is going on. So here's the gist. You arrive on the island of Voya Nui in an elongated tube, where 
 some weird little robot kid hooks you up with these masks that give you elemental powers. From 
 there, you'll need to enter six element-themed zones -- forest, ice, fire, and so on -- defeat the 
 six evil Piraka, and recover the Mask of Light. There's also some kind of parasitic golden banana 
 peel thrown into the mix, most likely for good measure.  

  How you interact with Bionicle Heroes is nearly identical to Traveller's Tales' other Lego series, 
 Lego Star Wars. You'll run around a linear environment, exploding Lego pieces and enemies into 
 a burst of smaller Lego pieces of varying point totals. These totals range from 10 to 250, which 
 you'll then be able to spend on upgrades and unlockables in the cantina, err, Matoran Enclave. 
 You'll find even more of these Lego pieces with the help of each character's individual elemental 
 power, which looks exactly like the Force and behaves similarly to constructing in LSW. Along the 
 way, you'll also collect gold and silver Toa canisters, with some being inaccessible until you 
 go back through the level after you've upgraded your robot. By finding enough of these canisters, 
 as well as passing zones and bashing bosses, you'll be able to visit a trophy room, where you can 
 read up on gaps in the story. But by the time you've aggregated enough tidbits of information for 
 the story to become semicoherent, you'll probably be past caring and will wish that you'd just 
 read the books.  

  Aside from the plot holes, the major problem with Bionicle Heroes is its dull, repetitive gameplay. 
 Heroes is so dull precisely because of the game's core feature. Hero mode activates once you've 
 picked up a certain number of Lego pieces. When in hero mode, you are completely invincible to 
 all damage, and this invulnerability lasts until you activate a giant golden statue to access the 
 next area of any given level. By being even remotely selective with how you pick up Lego pieces, 
 you'll be invincible a good two-thirds to three-fourths of the game, which means that nearly every 
 situation before a boss battle is utterly trivialized. And on the off chance that you do die, you'll 
 simply lose your currently equipped mask and receive a full bar of health. Replacement masks can 
 be found around every corner, but because they're rarely needed and picking one up switches you 
 to that character, they're more of an escalating annoyance than a life-saving necessity. Also, 
 boss fights are unbearably predictable. You'll face a boss after the first, third, and fourth stages 
 of each zone. In these fights, you'll invariably kill a bunch of minions to max out your hero meter; 
 activate a conveniently located golden statue to do damage to the invincible boss; rinse-wash-repeat 
 until the boss is down to a few hearts of health; then, while the boss is only mostly invincible, 
 circle-strafe and shoot until it keels over. The one exception to this is in a stage where you 
 face off against a boss and hordes of enemies... while you're in hero mode. Imagine, if you will, 
 the consequences of an invincible being and a mostly invincible being coming to blows. It's not 
 as exciting as you might think. If you add in combat that entails simply holding down the strafe 
 and shooting buttons, as well as a shoot-it-until-it's-dead ethos and a brain-dead autotargeting 
 system, you've got a truly mind-numbing, unsatisfying experience.  

  Much like Lego Star Wars, Bionicle Heroes has a quirky sense of humor that occasionally shines 
 through the drudgery. You'll get a glimpse of this in the cutscenes, but most of it will come by 
 way of the unlockable content found in the Piraka Playground. Here you'll find all of the Piraka 
 that have been defeated in the stages, and now that they're no longer harassing the fine folk off 
 Voya Nui island, they're free to build sand castles and engage in other tomfoolery. These scenes 
 are pretty funny the first time or so, but they're rather short and don't hold any lasting appeal. 
 You'll also find three bonus stages, which are two-minute missions to see how many of a certain 
 underling robot you can kill. These aren't particularly enjoyable, but they are a nice way to round 
 out a few of the "kill this many" achievements in the Xbox 360 version. Speaking of achievements, 
 getting the full 1,000 achievement points out of Bionicle Heroes will require two full play-throughs, 
 though you can get about 900 in one go. Aside from that, there is no multiplayer co-op or battle 
 mode. A battle mode would have gone a long way in extending the value here, especially because 
 slugging it out against another player with the six different elemental powers could potentially 
 be pretty neat. What's also missing that might have been worthwhile is a build-your-own-Bionicle 
 mode, playing off the Lego theme.  

          Ask any immortal -- invincibility ain't all it's cracked up to be.     

  The vast majority 
 of the game's budget was clearly funneled into the visual department; thus, the game does look 
 fairly good. The various environments are well detailed, albeit stereotypical in their elemental 
 themes, and fire and other explosion effects look particularly good. The Bionicles themselves animate 
 well and have a shiny robotic luster, but you won't see any kind of damage modeling or other advanced 
 effects. Effort was made to capitalize on the Xbox 360's technical capabilities, by way of high 
 dynamic range bloom lighting, as well as depth of field and motion blur options. Unfortunately, 
 the bloom lighting is often overdone to the point of being an eyesore. The depth and blurring effects 
 also just muddy up the presentation. Luckily, the latter two can be turned off, which you'll probably 
 want to do. You'll also find these effects in the PC version, but they look much cleaner, so the 
 PC version looks the best. For the most part, the game performs well on all systems, even with 
 numerous enemies and explosions onscreen. The frame rate will occasionally drag during some of 
 the latter boss-fight sequences, though. Unfortunately, the musical score here will have you searching 
 for your own self-destruct button. Because you'll be in hero mode for the vast majority of the 
 game, and hero mode has a track that trumps the music of any stage, you'll be listening to the 
 same Indiana Jones-inspired tune looped ad nauseam. However, many of the other arrangements that 
 you'll occasionally hear aren't exactly a pleasant alternative, such as the cacophony produced 
 by a French horn and electric guitar mash-up. Thankfully, you'll be able to turn these, as well 
 as the sound effects, down or off.  

  Bionicle Heroes is without a doubt aimed at kids and is as E10+ as a shooter can get, but even 
 a child will quickly grow bored by the lack of challenge, innovation, and story development in 
 this game. The blatant similarities to the Lego Star Wars series are also troubling because they 
 often leave you with the feeling that you're playing a retextured version of those games. Although 
 the game does have bursts of inspiration in the charm of the cutscenes, these are spread entirely 
 too thin and don't come close to carrying the package or making up for the disappointing gameplay. 
 Those who enjoy the Bionicle storyline will most likely have an easier time looking past this game's 
 flaws, but if you're looking for a fun and engaging game, definitely pass on this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hoodedrouge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this isnt the best game ever made, but its amazing fun and its so underrated!
  
  Replay Value 9/10
  
  This game has a amazing replay value ive finished it like 6 times still 
 playing it!
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Cool graphics doesnt look real, but for Bionicle game its nice ones, Shiny robots, Need I say more?
 
  
  Story 0/10 
  
  Ok ill admit there is no "story" No one talks but they dont need to its fun anyway.
  
  Gameplay 
 10/10
  
  Fun gameplay with easy controls what more could you ask for?
  
  Length 10/10
  
  This game has amazing length it goes on and on and on.
  
  Cutscenes 10/10
 
  
  These cut scenes ar very funny at times.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Just average sound here.
  
  Overall 8/10
  
  Very fun underrated game,
  It will never 
 require a walkthrough. I highly reccomend it, if you liked games like Lego star war 1 or 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Bionicle Heroes is a 3rd person shooter based on Lego's Bionicle toy line. While it has some familiar 
 characters, there are new characters introduced just for the game. The Bionicle universe is comprised 
 of life forms created from non standard Lego pieces that form alien dinosaur looking characters. 
 
  
  Game play: 4/10
  You control a nameless character that has the ability to use different masks. Each mask gives the 
 player the ability to use two to three different powers. Each mask is upgradeable and has changes 
 the look of the character. There are cogs like in most lego games to collect. These cogs can be 
 used in the shop to upgrade the masks unlocked or secret areas. The player has a health meter that 
 goes down from enemies and sometimes the environment. When the health meter reaches zero (no hearts) 
 then you lose a mask. If you don't have any masks left its game over and you can restart from a 
 last save point. There are little puzzles scattered all over the maps where you have to use the 
 proper mask or build a certain item to move forward. If you destroy enough enemies a bar will fill 
 up and the character becomes invincible for a certain period of time. The game is setup where most 
 of the time you become invincible versus a boss. You lose your invincibility when you hit the boss 
 a few times and you have to build up the kills once more. There are plenty of maps to play through. 
 While most maps have a different setting it tend to be straight forward and repetitive.
  
  Graphics: 3/10
  The graphics are very pixilated and plain. There is no 3D rendering and there 
 are very few sequences to wow you. Comparing to other Lego games Bionicle is not as good visually 
 as Lego Star Wars. 
  
  Sound and Music: 3/10
  The music is very repetitive and quite boring, there. The sounds could have been done a lot better 
 with just clicks for firing weapons and explosions. During cut scenes there are no voices just 
 silent mouth movement.
  
  Difficulty: 2/10
  This is a very easy game. Its very hard to lose a life, even when you do die, it would be very 
 easy to continue where you left off. The hardest part of this game is the length. Its dull and 
 long.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  For a younger gamer this might be a decent choice but there is plenty of competition out there 
 and this wouldn't be my first choice. I would not recommend this game for an older gamer. Only 
 reason anyone should buy this is to get every 360 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Opinion - This game caught me off guard when I first started since the graphics weren't the greatest 
 but guess what? It grows on you and is just pure fun. Something to give you a break from Playing 
 COD or Gears.
  
  Positive - This game was meant for a young audience but if you have a sense of humor then some 
 of the cut scenes are completely hilarious! Had me cracking up many times. The controls were so 
 simple that I opened the manual in disbelief to make sure I didn't over look something.
  
  Negative - The storyline was a bit redundant and the A. I. bearly alive but this didn't affect the 
 fun level. There was no in-mission saving. The only time your progress could be saved was after 
 a mission was completed. This forces you to play the mission through even though its dinner time 
 or your bladder is screaming.
  
  Overall - A good game to rent or purchase cheap on Ebay. Its fun, funny, entertaining, and a good 
 way too boost your gamer score (if you're interested in such things) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  I thought this game would be so-so at first, but then after giving in to my to my die-hard Bionicle 
 children relentless requests, it was enjoyable to play! In my opinion, this is a great addition 
 to the Lego family of KID friendly games. Now, it may be that I have also been a die-hard Bionicle 
 fan since it came out... I enjoy watching the animated (cartoon, lol) movies and playing the games 
 with my little monkeys!! I'm so glad that TT and Eidos actually made this game, because it's surprisingly 
 highly original. Well, the game's a TPS (Third-Person Shooter) and it has alot of the same concepts 
 of the Lego Star Wars games, like the shop, Piraka Playground, which is basically like outside 
 the Diner or Cantina, and of course, collecting Lego Pieces which shall be your currency. The idea 
 of switching Toa, instead of switching weapons is great, because each Toa has a unique ability 
 and weapon. You can upgrade their weapons, armor and abillities to get massive amounts of Lego 
 Peices. The game is longer than the Lego Star Wars games, but it's still short. What sounds reasonable 
 is co-op, but deep down, wouldn't it be cool to have online multiplayer for the PC, 360 and Xbox 
 users? I would have given it a 9.0 if it had that, but the developers obviously had a reason to 
 not have that. The level design is great, put aside the bad camera and the lack of using the right 
 trigger to shoot, we got ourselves an awesome game! If you dont grab this out of a bargin bin, 
 rent it! It shall make you, and your little LEGO heads, very happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Bionicle Heroes is a LEGO game by the same team that brought us the LEGO Star Wars, LEGO Batman, 
 and LEGO Indiana Jones video games. Unlike those titles, this LEGO games is riding on the fame 
 of an original LEGO franchise instead of a license. So, lets take a look at how it faired.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  So, Bionicle Heroes is basically the same type of games as LEGO Stars Wars 
 in the fact that you collect Lego bricks constantly by killing enemies. However, this is where 
 things differ since the way you fight enemies is really different. First, this game is a shooter 
 instead of a beat 'em up and it also has a over-the-shoulder view instead of a helicopter view. 
 This really was a nice change from all the hack and slash action, plus it feels like it mixes Gears 
 of War and Resident Evil 4 together. The second difference you see is that instead of a group of 
 people running with you, your "party" is now one person who can switch players on-the-fly instead 
 of running to the character and pressing a button. Finally, they also have a "Hero mode" which 
 happens every time you fill up the Lego bar up top (with the Lego blocks) and there are silver and 
 gold canisters to collect in each level. This basically sums up whats good about the game, but 
 whats bad is actually saddening. The first problem with the game is the controls. They put in this 
 auto aim mode which is all fine and dandy for the kids, but what really gets me is how there is 
 no way to shut it off and also no "advanced" mode for controls. I mean, the auto-aim makes the 
 game boring and the controls are so stupidly programmed around one control stick. i would love 
 to have the right stick control the camera and the left stick control all the movements, making 
 it feel smoother. Also, the advanced mode would also put the "fire weapon" as the right trigger 
 instead of the A button. What is this, the 90s? Moving on, the second problem is cutscenes. In 
 this day and age, you would think all games have a skip button for them, especially if the game 
 wants you to play levels over and over again. Nope, you have to watch entire clips over and over 
 again. Speaking of which, why isn't there a "reset level" option in the pause menu? it would have 
 been so nice near the end when I missed a canister and got stuck in a unclimbable hole. Finally, 
 why didn't the developers spice up the gameplay with different styles for each area? Each area 
 was exactly the same: Play level, fight sub boss 1, Play another level, get green ball, player 
 another level, fight sub boss 2, fight area boss, have encounter with final boss, rinse and repeat 
 6 times. I mean, where was the racing, swordfights, big Bionicle ship battle, etc.? Nope, nothing. 
 Just shooting levels.
  
  Graphics:
  
  There good. I mean, they won't win awards, but they definitely not too shabby for a 360 game. The 
 Bionicles looked great and some even had a good amount of detail to them. The enviroment look pretty 
 impressive, with a good amount of color in them. The reflective armor of the Bionicles was a nice 
 touch. I really liked the design choices for when you leave the game running and Bionicles turn 
 around and tap the glass. Also, the gun upgrades were fantastic, yet useless. I mean, they looked 
 really powerful, but not-so-much really.
  
  Sound: 
  
  The sound of Bionicle Heroes was actually pretty great for a game of this caliber. The game really 
 kept it together with some decent generic songs for each stage instead of the same beat over and 
 over. They even had a few boss battle songs instead of just one, like in usual budget games. The 
 only thing I think they should have done was made different songs for Hero mode since that was 
 the only song that really got old after a few plays. As for sound FX, the game seems to hold together 
 well, and the blast noises sound great. The Lego bricks sound like coin change instead of actual 
 Lego bricks, but its close enough I suppose. 
  
  Overall: 6.0/10.0
  
  Yea, its boring after a while, but Bionicle Heroes was actually pretty fun to finish in the end 
 and its depth with returns to levels and tons of extra content with every canister picked up make 
 the game last longer than you expect. Bionicle fans should definitely check this one out and Lego 
 Star Wars fans will enjoy this change of pace from the constant beat 'em up action. Other wise, 
 find it cheap ($20 or lower) or rent it for achievements or just for the fun of it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habast
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  SUCKS! 
  
  THE most repetative game EVER created! 
  
  So there's five worlds, right? Well if you beat one of them you beat all of 'em.
  
  Let me 
 explain:
  
  1st level: Woosie boss
  2nd level: Some weird little orb thing
  3rd level: Tough boss
  4th level: Main boss of area 
  
  next area
  
  1st level: Woosie boss
 
  2nd level: Some weird little orb thing
  3rd level: Tough boss
  4th level: Main boss of area 
  
  next area 
  
  1st level: Woosie boss
  2nd level: Some weird 
 little orb thing
  3rd level: Tough boss
  4th level: Main boss of area 
  
  next area 
  
  1st level: Woosie boss 
  2nd level: Some weird little orb thing
  3rd level: Tough boss
  
 4th level: Main boss of area 
  
  Hmm...
  
  I WONDER WHAT HAPPENS NEXT? 
  
  Oh, I know! 
  
  1st level: Woosie boss 
  2nd level: Some weird little orb thing
  3rd level: Tough 
 boss
  4th level: Main boss of area!!!!!!!!! 
  
  One word REDICULOUS!
  
  The Good
  Pretty okay graphics
  
  The Bad
  Little kids love it for some reason, and like the LEGO games 
 and Sonic I am forced to play the bloody thing until my eyeballs bleed and my brain fries
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  HERO MODE
  REDICULOUSLY TEDIOUS GAMEPLAY
  The 'storyline', if you 
 can sleep at night calling it that
  
  
  
  Overall:1.6
  Gameplay:1
  Graphics:4
  Story:0
  Sound:3
  Replayability:0
  Learning Curve:10 min at the most
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to ask why MOST of us are TOO harsh reviewing some titles? Bionicle Heroes is a good example 
 and I am NOT guilt free here either! Somewhere I forgot that this is a E10+ game that was purchased 
 for my Son! There are too few games that I can find for him to play that are both Truly appropriate 
 for his age group AND that he Will enjoy!! Like most parents I pop the title in for a "test run" 
 to make sure it works etc... At least that's my story and I'll Always stick to it! Seriously though, 
 with games costing what they do these days, I seem to expect something for ME in my son's games 
 as well! Bionicles delivers not only for him, but I was pleasantly surprised with it too! The difficulty 
 level was good enough that I didn't have to hear the usual "Dad! Can you please come help me with 
 this?" Don't get me wrong! I LOVE those moments when my son concedes that Dad is Still THE #1 gamer 
 in the house (For NOW!) I am just wondering if developers sometimes forget their target audience! 
 The Graphics are pretty good. NOT BioShock good, but better than I expected! The story keeps you 
 engaged and the Sound is good too. The lack of multiplayer in This game does leave somthing to 
 be desired. I SELDOM miss Online OR Multiplayer At All!! The E (Family/Kids) games being the exception 
 to MY general rule! These games are perfect for the parent child bonding through gaming moments!! 
 All in all I would say Bionicle Heroes seems to accomplish what I believe it set out to do. Make 
 a fun, Family friendly game Faithful to the Bionicle characters! Not only did my son enjoy it, 
 but I did too! With the small number of TRULY (E) games available, Bionicle should NOT be missed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolrc555
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  When you start this game, a cutscene introduces you to the world of bionicle as fast as possible. 
 It doesn't do that very good, but it least it's not a pain to look at and it's not that long. When 
 you start your first level the game isn't even that bad and the cutscenes which involve the boss 
 of the zone are kind of funny in some way. But after you completed your first zone you'll see that 
 everyone zone is basically the same, except for the fact that it looks different. In the first 
 level of every zone you see the zone-boss putting a mutant banana in some lego-monsters' head and 
 then it comes to life, after you beat the level, you take this head without the mutant fruit and 
 use it to unlock the next level. In level 2 you basically just fend off monsters till you reach 
 a magical kind of sphere which the zone-boss tried to lock from you, but as you got it, he failed. 
 In the third level you have to make your way through the level and kill a boss which is a bit more 
 challenging than the banana-controlled one from level 1 and after you kick his brick-for-a-butt, 
 you take his head and raise it above your head as a trophy. When you return to the level select 
 area, level 4, the zone-boss level, opens up. This level is a just a long boring bossfight that 
 is more challenging than the monster you beheaded in level 3, but it still isn't hard and you should 
 manage. After the zone-boss some big boss shows up whom you have to fend off for a while and then 
 he retreats After you finally beat all the four levels, you can now replay that zone, but this 
 time with the boss character too, or you can simply go to the next zone. When you start the next 
 zone you will find out this goes exactly the same as the previous one (banana-guy, sphere, guy that's 
 gonna be beheaded, zone-boss) but with different colors and different bosses. This goes on for 
 about 6 zones and the only thing that tries to keep you going are the easy achievements and the 
 semi-humorous actions of the zone-bosses. After you did all zones you fight the big boss and after 
 him you can go back to all levels to unlock some special, which sadly doesnt do much either besides 
 giving you an achievement if you complete the game 100&amp;.
  
  The low price tags and the easy achievement points were the only reason i bought this game, and 
 while playing the game no more reasons for buying it showed up. This game is definitely good if 
 it's in the bargain or a cheap rental if you wanna get some easy achievements or are a huge bionicle/lego 
 fan, but if your not in it for either of those two and are just looking for a good game, then this 
 definitely isn't recommendable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 18, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  The Good: Uber easy achievements, gameplay is almost identical to Lego Star Wars, over the sholder 
 shooting mechanics aren't bad, there are a bunch of missions to complete.
  
  The Bad: It really doesn't feel like you are trying when earning achievements, getting Hero Mode 
 every five minutes makes the game too easy, boss battles are repetitive, storyline is confusing 
 to those not familiar with Bionicle, no online or offline co-op. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When Lucas Arts, the publisher of all things Star Wars, took the rights away from Eidos for it's 
 suprisingly popular Lego Star Wars series, Eidos needed an answer. Theirs was Bionicle Heroes, 
 an almost identicle Lego Star Wars clone that features shooting instead of platforming, and a super 
 confusing storyline. Honestly, if you have never payed attention to Bionicle before, this game 
 won't help in the story department. Basically, there are several races of creatures that you must 
 kill, then capture masks the posess power to stop evil once in for all. That's what I gathered 
 from it, anyways. The gameplay itself is an almost perfect clone of Lego Star Wars. There is no 
 voice acting except for a few grunts, the cutscenes are goofy, you destroy things to collect studs 
 that you use to buy stuff, there are canisters to collect around each level, there is force powers 
 that select Bionicle can use, it's pretty much the exact same thing, but the main gameplay mechanic 
 is a bit different. Bionicle Heroes is a over the sholder, third person shooter. This may sound 
 like fun, and it actually is, but it takes away several aspects that made Lego Star Wars so good. 
 First, you can't jump, so you constantly have to use the force to build bridges for you to use 
 to cross a river or a gap, or you can use the water Bionicle to walk on water. Second, you really 
 can't do anything besides shoot and use the force. No cover system, no crouching, nothing but shooting 
 and using the force .
  
  You would normally thing god mode would be a cheat code, not in Bionicle Heroes. You earn what 
 is called Hero Mode every time your stud meter at the top of the screen fills up, which takes maybe 
 five minutes, and you remain invincable until the next checkpoint. You do have to use Hero Mode 
 during boss battles and to complete some super easy puzzles, but honestly, it just makes the game 
 way too easy.
  
  The levels are fairly short, and most of them have a super repetitive boss battle at the end. The 
 same consept pretty much works for all bosses: shoot the minions until you get Hero Mode, then 
 use the force to make some golden brick creature fly into the boss damaging them. Repeat the same 
 process four of five times, and you win, just like that. This wouldn't be a problem if the varied 
 up the boss fights each time, but no. They're all pretty much the same, which get's old after a 
 while. Luckily, the game makes up for it's repetitive gameplay and boss fights with super easy 
 to earn achievements. I average two or three each level, and there are plenty of levels. You can 
 earn all 1000 pretty easily, if you really try, and 800 or so if you don't, in a few hours, so 
 this is a game that achievement whores will love. The visuals, although obviously cartoony, are 
 actually greatly improved from Lego Star Wars 2, and it does look like a next gen game, but it 
 isn't a gigantic improvement.
  
  In all honesty, everyone who loved Lego Star Wars will like Bionicle Heroes. It does get repetive, 
 but it's a short, easy game that kids and older gamers alike will enjoy. There is no co-op or online 
 mode of any kind, but it's still a nice, short and easy game for you to rent or buy for a very 
 low price, and get several hours of enjoyment out of it. It may not be as good as Lego Star Wars, 
 but it's still worth playing for fans of the game.
  
  Gameplay: Repetitive, but enjoyable rip off of Lego Star Wars with a shooter aspect instead of 
 platforming.
  
  Graphics: It looks decent, but it's nothing special.
  
  Sound: No voice acting, but the music is decent and the grunts from the characters are still pretty 
 funny.
  
  Value: I got this game for $30 new. That's a decent price. Any cheeper and it's a good buy, but 
 it's also a good rental game.
  
  Final Thoughts: I'll shoot my Lego gun at you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbeecham
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I purchased Bionicle Heroes because I read the achievement points 
 were easy to get (which is mostly true) . The problem that I'm having is that the game is so painstakingly 
 bad and boring that I'm having a hard time forcing myself to play it all the way through to get 
 all of the points. The graphics in this game look like they were developed for the original xbox 
 and it may be one of the worst looking games for the Xbox 360. The game is also very dark on my 
 TV and there are no brightness controls within the game so I was forced to turn up the brightness 
 on my TV and then return it back to normal settings when I want to watch TV or play any other game. 
 The controls are really bad as well. The camera is very difficult to control and you often find 
 yourself swinging it around violently to try to target the enemies that jump and roll around the 
 maps. There is a lock-on target action that is assigned to both trigger buttons (why do we need 
 both triggers assigned to the same action?) , but you have to have your green laser beam eye-sight 
 locked onoto an enemy before you can get a target lock on them (which usually doesn't work very 
 quickly or easily) . Switching between targets that you're locked onto is impossible unless you 
 unlock, re-aim and lock on again, which is a huge pain in the butt during the boss battles. The 
 level design is boring and repetitive. The enemies are easy to defeat. You get 6 different Masks 
 that give you 6 different weapon attacks and some are less powerful or harder to hit the enemy 
 with than others so you find yourself generally only using 1-2 of the masks. The masks are based 
 on elemental properties like earth, water, fire, wind, etc but they really don't incorporate those 
 elemental properties into the gameplay. For example, water weapons do more damage against fire 
 enemies, or fire kill water enemies faster. There are only 3 types of enemies and they have no 
 elemental properties. The boss battles are simplistic. Generally, there is a pile of gold rocks 
 that you can build into a creature to send after the boss and you can only build the gold rocks 
 once you have collected enough Lego parts to get your robot into Hero mode (by defeating a never-ending 
 horde of the 3 types of enemies. You also have 5 hearts that represent your health and if you lose 
 those hearts then you lose one of your masks, but you have 6 masks so it's almost impossible to 
 die.
  
  I've played over 70 Xbox 360 games (including arcade) and have over 34k achievement points at the 
 time of this review and so far this is the worst game that I have played to this point (although 
 I'll probably play Eragon soon and that may take the crown) . I wouldn't recommend this game to 
 anyone unless they just wanted the achievement points (about 900-940 are easy) . BTW I really liked 
 Lego Star Wars 1 &amp; 2 so I have nothing against Lego games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossjimbob
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  LEGO Star Wars, released in April of 2005, appealed to a broad audience. Youngsters familiar with 
 the newer Star Wars flicks enjoyed the lighthearted adventure, while members of the Atari generation 
 recalled the intergalactic swashbuckling of Luke Skywalker and Han Solo from the first films. A 
 year later the older crowd was rewarded in the form of LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy 
 from veteran developer Traveller's Tales. It featured more awesome co-op culled from vastly better 
 source material and, like its predecessor, sold boatloads of copies. Bionicle Heroes, the latest 
 LEGO-inspired game to emerge, contains some of the signature charm found in previous titles, but 
 lacks some key elements that prevent it from being as addictive and enjoyable as it could have 
 been.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the Bionicle universe, the story is loosely based on Polynesian lore. 
 You are the Hero and it is your job to retrieve the Mask of Life from the evil Piraka, who have 
 invaded the island of Voya Nui. It is your job to comb a multitude of environments (each with an 
 elemental theme) to retrieve a set of powerful TOA Inika Masks that allow you to transform into 
 different Bionicle creatures. Along the way you'll collect piles of LEGO pieces, exchange them 
 for weapon and armor upgrades, and unlock playable characters.
  
  Unlike LEGO Star Wars, there is no cooperative mode in Bionicle Heroes. That means no heated battles 
 with your friends or kids, which was a strong selling point in prior releases. Additionally, the 
 camera is fixed behind your character, essentially turning the game into a third person shooter. 
 Ordinarily this would be fine, but the sometimes-constrained environments (building interiors, 
 caves, etc.) severely limit your view. And unlike most shooters on Xbox 360, Bionicle Heroes doesn't 
 support the standard dual-analog stick control found in games like Halo 2, Gears of War, and Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter.
  
  Instead, both thumbsticks serve to turn your view or move forward or back, not strafe. Like Metroid 
 Prime, strafing is accomplished by holding down a trigger and moving the left stick. Aiming is 
 done automatically. Each Bionicle you control fires a laser beam from its mask that locks onto 
 the closest target. The problem with this system is that enemies rarely attack one-by-one, so you'll 
 constantly find yourself fighting the aiming mechanism rather than your opponents as it is difficult 
 to break aim to select a different foe. These issues are annoying and could have been easily remedied 
 by including additional control options as well as giving you the ability to turn off the auto-aim 
 feature.
  
  The environments of Voya Nui are interesting and varied. In one zone you'll be duking it out on 
 lush shores and island coves and in the next you'll be exploring caves and buildings. Graphically, 
 Bionicle Heroes is an impressive game that utilizes many visual tricks such as HDR lighting and 
 depth of field blur to put you in the action. Likewise, the musical score is appropriately epic 
 and well orchestrated. Even the cutscenes, though few and far in between, recall the same slapstick 
 humor found in LEGO Star Wars. With so much going for the game in terms of solid visuals and sound 
 effects, you would think this game is a winner.
  
  Sadly, frustrating and repetitive combat drags the whole experience down. You'll spend most of 
 your time scouring the environment for floating masks in between blasting inanimate piles of LEGO 
 blocks in a mindless grind to acquire enough pieces to pimp out your TOA with the latest and greatest 
 upgrades.
  
  The few puzzles that are there to wrestle with essentially solve themselves. As you approach each 
 one, you'll see an icon that clues you in on which mask you need to be wearing in order to activate 
 the LEGOs. Don the right one and a simple press of the B button causes the LEGOs to temporarily 
 assemble into fantastic creatures that bridge gaps, open doors, and more. The animation payoff 
 is great, but you don't have to work for it. It's touches like this that remind you you're playing 
 a kid's game and not some adult-themed shooter, since you'll rarely use your brain to do anything 
 other than hammer on the fire button and collect plastic pieces. It's a shame since there's a lot 
 of wasted potential here.
  
  All but the staunchest LEGO fans should steer clear of Bionicle Heroes. Though it tries to extend 
 the appeal of LEGO Star Wars to another franchise, the source material just isn't compelling and 
 the gameplay is stale. Perhaps with a few tweaks and a co-op mode (preferably one playable over 
 Xbox Live) TT Games could have another hit franchise on its hands, but as it stands Bionicle Heroes 
 is just a mediocre license wrapped around a dull shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vision007
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  My son, who is five, loves Bionicles and Legos in general. When I got my 360 for Christmas I thought 
 this would be great game for him, which it is. It is challenging for him and there is no blood 
 and gore or language which is nice. The graphics are fun and colorful but not outstanding. I would 
 highly recommend this game for very young players. (Or the non-gaming wife who has all the sudden 
 become addicted to this game.)
  
  BUT
  
  For adult/teen gamers this game is real repetitive and very easy. Each level is the same concept, 
 there is no real challenge to any of it. The mapping system has a big yellow arrow that always 
 points you in the right direction so the sense of adventure is gone. It is impossible to die in 
 the game, when you loose a mask it doesn't matter because within the next few seconds the mask 
 you just lost will reappear. The boss fights when you need to go into hero mode three times to 
 complete the task just gets flat out boring. If you are a huge Lego fan that just must have it 
 then wait for it to hit the bargin bin, it won't be a long wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be so-so at first, but then when I rented it, it was in my opinion, better 
 than Lego Star Wars. Maybe, because I have been a die-hard Bionicle fan since it came out and if 
 you ask me any question about Bionicle, I will probably answer it right. I'm so glad that TT and 
 Eidos actually made this game, because it's surprisingly highly original. Well, the game's a TPS 
 (Third-Person Shooter) and it has alot of the same concepts of the Lego Star Wars games, like the 
 shop, Piraka Playground, which is basically like outside the Diner or Cantina, and of course, collecting 
 Lego Pieces which shall be your currency. The idea of switching Toa, instead of switching weapons 
 is great, because each Toa has a unique ability and weapon. Here's a list
  Kongu: Shotgun (basically)
  Jaller: Machine gun (basically...)
  Hahli: Water beam
  Hewkii: 
 Rocket launcher (b-a-s-i-c-a-l-l-y)
  Nuparu: Bomb launcher
  Matoro: Sniper rifle (see Kongu, Jaller and Hewkii)
  You can upgrade their weapons, armor and 
 abillities to get massive amounts of Lego Peices. The game is longer than the Lego Star Wars games, 
 but it's still short. What sounds reasonable is co-op, but deep down, wouldn't it be cool to have 
 online multiplayer for the PC, 360 and Xbox users? I would have given it a 8.0 if it had that, 
 but the developers obviously had a reason to not have that. The level design is great, put aside 
 the bad camera and the lack of using the right trigger to shoot, we got ourselves an awesome game! 
 Rent it, and it shall make you very happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play as a Bionicle hero and et off to save a world in ruin. The game is set in 
 multiple environments and is a third person shooter. First off dont let the Bionicle title sway 
 you. It is childish and korny, but thats what makes it fun.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special, they look like Lego SW graphics but a little less smooth and more detailed. 
 Graphics arent the highlight anyway, but they definately help.
  Gameplay: Pretty smooth. Its third person action. The camera is ackward because you cant rotate 
 but controls are great, theres only like 4 buttons you need to use. When you play you shoot a gun. 
 You can use different abilites for the guns and they are pretty cool. Theres a rocket launcher 
 type gun, freeze gun, tri shot gun, and many more. You can upgrade weapons and armor from a shop 
 by using bricks that you collect by destroying enemies and environmental objects (barrels, boxes, 
 etc.) Sound: Nothing special. Its got pretty cool music, but sound effects suck. Overall not that 
 bad.
  
  Overall this game is a good rental. It has alot of replayability, buying special items. You could 
 buy it, its only 40, but only if your a fan of the genre or Lego.
  
  No online components. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
