-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BlackSite: Area 51
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/blacksite/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking characters and environments.
 Campaign is of a decent length.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Squad tactics never seem to work out quite as well as you want them to.
 Lots of little bugs and issues that add up over time.
 It'll be tough to find enough players online to get into a full 10-player game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 1,342 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Midway - Austin
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 12, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
BlackSite: Area 51 is an ordinary first-person shooter that's held back by a collection of bugs 
 and other issues. 

  The name "Area 51" immediately evokes a number of things relating to the US government, ranging 
 from secret aircraft test programs to more colorful conspiracies, such as aliens and space ships. 
 In the world of gaming, Midway has used Area 51 in a series of pretty hokey alien-filled games, 
 ranging from light gun shooters that started in arcades to cheesy first-person shooters filled 
 with all kinds of weird conspiracy theories. BlackSite: Area 51 continues the lineage in a more 
 serious manner, but it doesn't necessarily make for a better game overall. The game's strong graphical 
 presentation is overshadowed by its run-of-the-mill gameplay, which is in turn overshadowed by 
 a series of glitches.  

           The relevance of the game's opening Iraq missions doesn't become clear until later, but 
 it all fits in the end.      

  The game puts you in the role of Aeran Pierce, leader of Echo Squad. You'll roll with the same 
 set of squadmates throughout, and the backstory is filled in with their chatter between firefights. 
 The game opens in the recent past, with Pierce and his team deep in Iraq, looking for weapons of 
 mass destruction. Instead, you find some not-quite-human enemies that are quickly explained away 
 as humans with extreme cases of encephalitis. Then, you encounter swarms of creatures that explode 
 like land mines when you shoot them. After a brief Iraq portion that sets the stage for what's 
 to come, the rest of the game takes place in Nevada where you're told that a militia has risen 
 up and seized control of Rachael. This is the town near Groom Lake and Area 51 itself, as well 
 as its surrounding areas. While it's painted as Americans who have risen up in protest of the government, 
 that's only half the truth. As you get deeper into the invasion, you'll uncover what's really going 
 on, though the game fumbles when it comes to explanations and never really tells you from where 
 the alien creatures originally came. The level titles and a few references to modern-day sticking 
 points, such as Abu Ghraib, attempt to give the game a bit of an edge, but the content doesn't 
 back up that edge very much, making level titles like "Mission Accomplished" (complete with sneer 
 quotes) feel forced.  

  The action in BlackSite's single-player game is very straightforward. You'll control a squad, but 
 your control only uses one button. If you hit the squad button, you can order your team to move 
 to specific positions. You can focus fire on enemies by hitting the button while pointing at an 
 enemy. You can also use it to order squadmates to utilize mounted gun positions, but you'll mainly 
 use it to get your squadmates to open doors. Apparently Pierce is too good to open doors by himself. 
 The squad mechanic feels slapdash and rarely necessary during the course of combat. Focusing fire 
 on enemies doesn't work as well as pulling the trigger yourself; thus, it just seems faster and 
 easier to do most of the shooting yourself. There are a couple of extended vehicle sequences where 
 you'll drive a Humvee from one location to another while one of your squadmates lays down fire 
 from a mounted gun to take out several giant worms that keep sprouting out of the ground. The vehicles 
 handle just fine.  

  You'll get your hands on a few prototype weapons, such as a scattergun that fires rounds that can 
 bounce off walls or a beam cannon that delivers large bolts of energy. But most of the time, you'll 
 be using a standard-issue assault rifle. The aiming assists that make your reticle stick to enemies 
 a bit make that make your reticle stick to enemies a bit, making firing on target a little too 
 easy, even if you don't hold the weapons up and properly aim. Most of the enemies you face are 
 humanoids, though you'll also face off against a handful of more creative creatures, such as the 
 fire brute, which is a huge four-legged boss creature with a bright, glowing weak spot on its back 
 that you have to take down with homing antitank weaponry. The game could have used more enemy diversity. 

  For the most part, BlackSite is just kind of uneventful. But it's taken down a notch by a light 
 scattering of bugs and other issues. In the Xbox 360 version, we ran into a spot where the vehicle 
 we were driving, as well as other broken vehicles in the vicinity, suddenly dropped a bunch of 
 weight then started slowly floating and twisting in the air. For a second, it looked like it was 
 going to be some cool alien effect. After a minute or so, the floating cars were joined by a bunch 
 of messed-up on-screen textures and effects, which made it clear that something was broken. Most 
 of the other issues involve the squad artificial intelligence. Your guys occasionally lose focus 
 and run all over the place or say the wrong things at the wrong times. In one case, they'll claim 
 to be heading your way only to start running in the opposite direction. While no one issue is bad 
 enough to bring the whole game down, they all add up to a game that would have probably done a 
 bit better after another month or two in development.  

  The campaign would have been more exciting with a cooperative option, but it's of average length 
 and feels passable. It's also joined by a multiplayer mode that feels half-finished. It only allows 
 10 players to get together and play in a few basic game modes, but you'll need luck actually finding 
 a 10-player game. We felt lucky when we managed to find three other players playing on the Xbox 
 360 and have seen exactly one person trying to play online in the PC version. The matches we did 
 get into made the modes feel like they were sort of slapped together in a passionless manner in 
 order to place one more bullet point on the back of the box. None of it seems to compensate for 
 average ping times very well either, resulting in sketchy weapon firing and player movement. Even 
 when working as intended, it's certainly not going to be your first choice for multiplayer shooter 
 thrills on either platform.  

            While Area 51 conjures up imagery of little green men and UFOs, the threats in BlackSite 
 aren't quite so otherworldly.      

  BlackSite uses the Unreal Engine and, for the most part, it looks pretty nice. The character models 
 look good and the environments look sharp. The PC version wins out over the 360 version in this 
 aspect, provided you're running on a system that exceeds the minimum requirements. The Xbox 360 
 version has a really unstable frame rate, occasionally hitching up completely and halting for a 
 second or two before things get going again. That wasn't a problem on the PC version, though on 
 the PC, we noticed more tearing than usual. Also, for a game that delivers a lot of its dialogue 
 on the battlefield, it's a bummer that your troops don't move their mouths much when speaking. 
 The voice acting in the game is decent, with the main bad guy coming across as genuinely angry 
 and crazy thanks to some solid delivery. BlackSite also has decent music and sound effects, with 
 properly impactful explosions and weapons fire.  

  For the most part, BlackSite is a boilerplate first-person shooter that has a handful of good moments. 
 As it stands, the game suffers from some annoying issues that make it difficult to recommend. If 
 you're a huge fan of first-person shooting, you're probably better of with a rental because the 
 lack of multiplayer competition means that the whole experience doesn't last especially long.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (102 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: REGAMER-X
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  BlackSite: Area 51 is another grain in the sand of the sub genre that is known as the alien first-person 
 shooters. In this title you play as Captain Pierce, a solider who was sent with a his squad to 
 investigate a bunker in Iraq that was said to house W. M. D.'s. Instead of weapons of mass destructions 
 the squad finds alien mutations and alien artifacts said to have been found in Area 52 and sold 
 to the Iraqis. 
  
  While investigating a strange alien relic squad member Somers causes a reaction to the crystal-like 
 relic that draws various aliens to their position. Pierce is also effected by this reaction but 
 is pulled to safety by Doctor Noa Weis. As she's dragging Pierce away from the aliens Somers is 
 yelling for her to hold the door. Instead of listening to Somers, Noa closes the door to contain 
 them as she escapes with Pierce. 
  
  Three years later the aliens, known as Xenos, appear again, this time in Nevada. Pierce is then 
 called back to duty to help with this new threat. Along the way he's aided by Delta Force Echo 
 Squad members Grayson and Ambrose as they try to find out what's going on and try to save the planet 
 from the aliens.
  
  
  BlackSite: Area 51 is basically the spiritual sequel to Area 51, which was released on the Xbox, 
 Playstation 2, and the PC in 2005. Released November 12, 2007 just 6 days after Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare was released. Many see that as the reason BlackSite: Area 51 was received poorly 
 and didn't catch much attention. 
  
  True, it would be tough to get much attention after that being a first-person shooter, when you 
 have a gorgeous, well made, fun to play, rewarding game like Call of Duty 4 fresh on the shelves 
 still. 
  
  But, there's more reasons than that to ignore this game. There's way more bad things over shadowing 
 the few good things about the game. Being a FPS there's a few essential things you'll need in your 
 game to make it a worthy FPS in this generation of games. A lengthy, but not too lengthy campaign, 
 a nice array of weaponry at your arsenal, a variety of different foes to unleash your hatred towards, 
 and extra multiplayer modes so you can have some fun with your buddies online, or off.
  
  BlackSite uses some of the things mentioned, but not too greatly. There is a campaign but it doesn't 
 last more than 4 hours. There's more than the default M4 assault rifle, but there's only 5 other 
 weapons. The pistol that doesn't do much in the fight against the aliens. The Sniper Rifle that's 
 only seen 2-3 times throughout the campaign. The Anti-tank Rocket Launcher that's only good, and 
 happens to only be seen during the boss fights. The Scatter Gun which is the game's version of 
 the shotgun. Then finally the Plasma Rifle, which is the gun that shoots a big orange ball of energy 
 out. Every game has to have it's Plasma Rifle type weapon.
  
  It's not a FPS without things to shoot at, right? BlackSite has a handful of enemies which you'll 
 get tired of seeing by the 3rd level. There's small exploding creatures, alien brutes, worm things 
 that shoot fireballs, humanoid baddies, octopus-looking dogs, aliens on stilts, and the huge "boss" 
 aliens you see several times. For the majority of the game you're only killing the humanoid baddies 
 and the exploding creatures, with occasional alien brutes and octo-dogs. 
  
  The "boss" creatures are what they consider, well, the game's bosses. They're not really spectacular 
 fights against huge foes, just you hiding around somewhere with a rocket launcher waiting for the 
 scope to lock on to the alien's glowing weak spot. There's only 2 different types of boss aliens 
 throughout the whole game. The tower spores, which are tower shaped aliens that do nothing more 
 than pop out the octopus dogs until you kill it. Then there's the Fire Brutes, which are giant 
 turtle looking aliens that attack with an orange beam and also send out the exploding aliens. 
 
  
  Besides the two boss aliens you kill throughout the campaign there's 2 more bosses you'll fight. 
 In the 4th level you'll encounter a giant worm on a bridge while in a helicopter which you have 
 to gun down with a turret. Then there's the final boss of the game. This is probably the biggest 
 disappointment of the game. The final boss has the brain of a peon grunt solider in a last generation 
 shooter. It's the final showdown, you're on a circular platform, just you and him, he has the Plasma 
 Rifle, you have whatever you have, you start to fire at the guy.. And he just stands there. He 
 just stands then he'll shoot every so often. He doesn't mind you unloading clips in his face while 
 he goofs off. I found the simplest strategy to beating him to just stand on the ramp with the boss 
 being up ramp so when he shoots the plasma ball it hit's the floor and you're unfazed by the blast, 
 but still have a clear view of his head so you just unload bullets until you run out of your 400+ 
 bullets. On casual difficulty it look my whole supply of M4 bullets to his head to kill him. The 
 final boss is basically a grunt with loads of more health at his disposal.
  
  BlackSite also suffers from numerous technical issues. Glitchy achievements and other in-game issues. 
 At times I had to reload the checkpoint because my AI teammates, which I always need to open doors 
 for me and hold me hand and feed me too, were stuck at some part of the level and I had no way 
 back to them. There's invisible walls in the weirdest spots. At a few times I was lost in translation, 
 when I had to find a building, but they never really told me how to get there.
  
  Multiplayer wise, I can't really say much. I doubt I could find anyone online to play with, so 
 I didn't really bother with it. The back of the game's case states "Fight for Freedom Online: Play 
 for either side in traditional or all-new online modes." In other words, the basic FPS online stuff: 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and whatever else aliens can do with organized teams.
 
  
  To sum it up BlackSite: Area 51 is a pretty abysmal attempt at mediocrity. The game suffers from 
 its technical issues and shallow and short campaign. BlackSite is way behind it's time, the team 
 at Midway who worked on this should be ashamed at themselves for making this game this generation 
 and thinking it'll pass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind9d
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were preety good. The weapons were fun to play with. But it was so short. i mean come 
 on. whats the use of it being called blacksite: area 51. Even the original one on ps2 area 51 was 
 fun. They probably put it on xbox 360 because it has achivements to make it longer. If you are 
 expecting to play a wonder fun shooting game simialar to halo or Gears of War then dont get it. 
 Its fun as your playing it but my friend was right never get a game before you really know it. 
 Whatever you do. just do not buy it. Unless you need achivements. Rent it. So all i am saying is 
 that you do not buy it. The game brings you no where. you might buy it or rent it and start playing 
 with a friend and saying this is going to be great. You love it. Yeah. Then boom you beat it. You 
 are your friend get mad and say that was a waste. Thats what happend to me and my friend. luckily 
 i rented it. So buy it or rent it if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is going to fall victim to bad timing. It is a fun FPS that is going to be overshadowed 
 by the more polished and popular Call of Duty 4. If they had sacrificed their pre-Christmas release 
 date and spent more time touching up the few rough edges, the buzz from COD4 would have died down 
 and this game would have had a shot at being the next big shooter.
  
  This is the sequel to the often overlooked, but still awesome, Area 51 on PS2 (no, not the arcade 
 rail shooter, the FPS) . Unfortunately, this game doesn't have the same level of polish as it's 
 predecessor. It is a very well done game but could have used some more work. There is no animation 
 for characters exiting a vehicle; they just appear in front of you. Occasionally, you will find 
 a door that is larger than the door frame and the two will overlap. Vehicle controls feel like 
 an afterthought. Even with all of this, the game is a blast from beginning to end.
  
  The gameplay itself doesn't contain anything you haven't played before. It follows all of the typical 
 FPS rules. You can zoom in slightly with any weapon for better accuracy. Human (or humanoid) enemies 
 can be taken down more quickly by head shots. Alien enemies have clearly marked weak spots. Most 
 bosses are vulnerable only in one location. Nothing about this game is truly original, but a good 
 FPS doesn't have to be. The action is intense and never gets old. The levels aren't too memorable, 
 but do enough to keep you interested. It actually took me until the last level to realize that 
 I had been using the same gun for 95% of the game. Sure, I was disappointed once I caught on to 
 this fact, but the game was still fun the entire time. It says something good about the game that 
 it took me that long to notice. You can issue simple orders to your squad by pressing the assigned 
 button (the right bumper on Xbox 360) while looking at where you want them to go or what you want 
 them to do. It works well and they usually are pretty good at following orders. The game boasts 
 it's squad morale mechanic. If you perform well, your squad is supposed to perform better. If you 
 do poorly or one of them falls in combat, the squad performs worse. I never really noticed a difference, 
 but I may have just not paid enough attention since I was usually the one doing most of the killing. 
 I do have to say that my squad mates did save my butt a few times when I had to reload and still 
 had enemies coming after me. They aren't as disappointing as in many other games, but not as good 
 as the guys in Republic Commando.
  
  The boss battles are a little disappointing. Upon coming across a boss, your squad usually tells 
 you exactly how to defeat it and most of the time it can be done in a single try. One boss in particular 
 was extremely frustrating, but only because your squad's information on defeating it is completely 
 wrong. The boss is a large turtle like alien that is only vulnerable on it's back. Your squad tells 
 you they should split up and will drawn the enemies attention while you work around behind to shoot 
 at it's weak spot. If you try this, the boss will never take his attention off of you and defeating 
 him is completely impossible. I died so many times that I actually considered never playing again. 
 After looking it up online, I found out that all you have to do is run to the top of the tallest 
 building and shoot two rockets at the enemy. Now, I can win this battle every time without fail 
 in roughly thirty seconds. The final boss is also disappointing, but for different reasons. He 
 doesn't fight any differently than other normal enemies. He just can take more hits and has a more 
 powerful gun. The room you fight him in has four pillars. All you have to do to beat him is stand 
 behind one and move slowly to the right until you can hit him but he can't hit you. Most of the 
 time he will just stand there and take the hits. He does move around some and will probably get 
 some shots of at you, but this strategy will work almost every time.
  
  The story is simply enough to push the game forward, but not much more. If you are expecting a 
 plot about aliens and government conspiracies, be prepared to be disappointed. There are hints 
 of conspiracies, but there is never any indication that aliens are involved in the game in any 
 way. All the strange creatures you fight are just results of scientific experimentation that isn't 
 explained fully. The characters are likable, but I never really got truly attached to them. Because 
 of this, I didn't really feel bad when something happened to one of them. I actually sympathised 
 with the main enemy of the game. If I had the choice, I probably would have joined with him. It 
 made it a little difficult for me to really be drawn into the game because I was forced to fight 
 someone I really didn't want to. On a side note, I have no idea if this supposed to be a continuation 
 of the last Area 51's story. It seems like it might be, but there is no real connection.
  
  This game continues the streak that all new shooters have had going. It is so short that I actually 
 finished it in one sitting. This is good if you rent it, but paying $60 for one day of fun is ridiculous. 
 Three difficulty levels can extend the game, but nothing new happens once you complete it the first 
 time. It also has hidden packages around the levels that can increase the replay value, but this 
 is almost expected in games these days. It also is another game that has no ending. The story just 
 stops and nothing is really accomplished during the course of the game.
  
  Graphically, it looks very good for the most part. The levels look nice, but can be rather sparse 
 in some areas. The character models aren't top of the line, but are above average. The weapons 
 look and feel believable. Much of the environment is destructible and will break apart realistically 
 when under fire. If an enemy is hiding behind a concrete barricade and won't come out, it is awesome 
 to be able to shoot the barricade until it crumbles and reveals the enemy. Just be careful, because 
 the same may apply to anything you hide behind. Several of the bosses kick the game into slow motion 
 momentarily when they enter, which looks really cool. Especially when they bust through a wall 
 or smash into the ground and debris goes flying. Many of your squads animations, like opening doors, 
 look great. Others of their actions look bad or are non-existent. You can almost tell when they 
 started to have to rush the game to have it out by Christmas.
  
  You won't be blown away by Blacksite. It is fun from beginning to end, but never really takes it 
 to the next level. It is definitely better than games like Soldier of Fortune but doesn't compete 
 with top tier games like Call of Duty 4. My advice is to take it for what it is and enjoy yourself. 
 If you don't have too high of expectations, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparowprime
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Is it just me, or are games getting a lot shorter these days. I mean yeah you got your Oblivions, 
 Fallouts, and Fable type games, which you expect to be a bit longer than your average disc, but 
 the everything that isn't some kind of RPG hybrid is just criminally, short! Ok enough of that, 
 on to the game.
  
  Area 51 is like a summer action flick, it's action packed for about 2 hours, but when it's over 
 you're left with something you'll probably be talking about for the rest of the summer. Alright, 
 it may be a bit longer than two hours, but not by much. But while your playing, it comes at you 
 fast and furious with some great gunfights, tight controls, and a government conspiracy story that 
 no Area 51 game should be without. Not to say that the story doesn't fall short in places, and 
 the ending left too many questions unanswered to not have an established sequel in the works. This 
 is evened out by the solid action taking place on the screen. It kind of has a GRAW meets Starship 
 Troopers feel to it, and it works. I just whish it wasn't over so darn fast, the story took some 
 steep turns to keep up with the rapidly approaching ending. It would have benefited so much from 
 a more paced story, and more interaction with the NPC characters fighting by your side. The graphics 
 are crisp and the frame rate doesn't suffer at all from a screen full of gunfire and explosions, 
 which is a good thing. There are some well-crafted enemy models, there just could have been more 
 variety in them, at least in the larger ones that show up a hand full of times to cause massive 
 destruction. Ally NPC characters track you with their eyes and head when they talk to you, and 
 the voice acting fits good with the dialogue and the characters speaking it.
  
  Not a lot of variety in weaponry, but given the time spent playing the game, that was most likely 
 the wisest choice. You do get the basics, a pistol, assault rifle, and grenades. There is also 
 a pair of alien weapons that to me were more problematic than an honest to goodness boom stick. 
 Perhaps I'm bias, but I can't help but go with my conventional projectile weapons over that overly 
 sci-fi stuff. The barrel of your assault rifle gets hot and turns red as you fire it, and the explosions 
 and other weapon sounds get the job done. They offer you some context sensitive squad commands, 
 but with the way the game is designed, this limited system is rendered pretty much useless you 
 need a door opened that you otherwise could have opened yourself.
  
  All in all, it is a fun game to play on the week end to get a good action fix, just don't plan 
 on spending a whole lot of time with it. Rent it, or if you can find it reasonably cheap, go ahead 
 and buy it, but is a game any action buff would want to at least play. I give it a 7.5
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game for christmas 2007, i was siked and for good reason its PR campaign 
 made it look wonderfeul. Once it was released though it had a few disspointments, Mainly the Short 
 Campaign and Extremely average Multi Player. But even with these flaws i find myself playing it 
 more and more.
  
  You will take the role role of Sgt. Pierce. He has been brought in to fight Insurgents but they 
 arent your usual bad guys, for one they are heavely armed and organized and for two, there on US 
 soil! Just when things start to get under control new Monsters appear on the battlefield and create 
 havok. What are these thing? where did they come from? and who is controlling them?
  
  Blacksites Multi Player is as Very Average, fun yes, exciting sometimes, but nothing new. Same 
 old assualt rifiles, shotguns, pistols and such and no real new gameplay. It is also restricted 
 to its few release maps as Microsoft has yet to publish a Mpa-Pack.
  
  Even with its Multi player Lacking contant and the story being Short its still a game to take a 
 look at. The story is short but well done and has planty of action.
  
  PS
  The game also features a "Moral" system. depending on how well you fight affect your squads effectness. 
 Its not the first game to try this but its the first such highly Intergrated system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game seems to have been cobbled from the stereotypical FPS box of plots. You assume the role 
 of Captain Pierce, a Delta Force army soldier sent to Iraq to search for those elusive WMDs. Shortly 
 into the mission, something goes wrong and instead of fighting Republican Guard, Pierce and his 
 squad are fighting some sort of mutated creatures, he loses a teammate, and there's a lot of talk 
 about the Army knowing more about the mission than they told their soldiers. Flash forward a couple 
 years and Pierce is thrust into the middle of a crisis in Nevada where once again, the Army knows 
 a lot more than they're telling anyone else and  well, you have to shoot to kill everything that 
 moves and try to figure out what's really going on. With the backdrop of Nevada and the title Area 
 51, you may THINK that there's going to be some neat alien conspiracy thing going on, but in all 
 actuality, the plot never really seems to fully develop, and it ends on a rather lackluster note.
 
  
  From a wide perspective on mechanics, the game isn't all that bad, although it isn't really anything 
 to write home about, either. The graphics for the characters and backgrounds are nice to look at 
 and there are some neat effects within the game that are quite notable: for instance, while standing 
 out in the rain, you can notice rain splattering off your weapons. (You can almost ignore that 
 it's not splattering off nearby vehicles.) Unfortunately, the game doesn't seem to be able to support 
 its own software, as there are several instances while traversing the sprawling landscape that 
 there are mapping issues or with your squad mates suddenly vanishing from sight. I noted a few 
 unattached graphics as well, floating lamp posts and the like.
  
  In addition to these graphical bugs, there are a number of AI bugs that culminate throughout the 
 game. Your squad mates are more often than not useless on their own, wandering off to look at walls 
 while Bugs swarm in at you. You can use your "squad command" button to target enemies for your 
 squad to attack, but based on the "morale level" (which is determined by how much damage your squad 
 has taken during the melee) , your squad may charge into the fray or stay in the back and take potshots 
 at the enemy. Actually, even with the highest morale level possible, it's doubtful whether you're 
 concentrated fire effort will focus on the right enemy. In addition, if you aren't aimed at an 
 enemy at all, your squad will rush forward to the spot designated, and potentially get killed. 
 Er, rather, knocked out for a few seconds. They get up on their own after a bit; of course, if 
 you get killed, you're down for the count. In fact, given the weak AI, the squad command feature 
 is rather pointless and is used only to open up doors that impede your progress, since Pierce is 
 unable to open doors on his own, apparently.
  
  The sound is weak, weak, weak. I'm annoyed that once again, here is a FPS game that doesn't allow 
 you to toggle subtitles, so briefings are sometimes obscured by a variety of chatter. Thankfully, 
 without much of a soundtrack to maneuver through, the background ambience is negligible whenever 
 something important is being passed, since your radio cuts right through any background noise. 
 In addition, while your squad mates may occasionally mutter something while you're navigating areas, 
 it's seldom anything to take note of, and is more of an excuse for there to be SOME sort of noise 
 as you navigate the ridiculously large areas. I don't mean to suggest that the areas are difficult 
 to navigate as well. The size of the area refers mostly to the obscene ceiling heights or areas 
 that are out of reach beyond chain link fences that are erected everywhere to keep you contained 
 on the game's linear path.
  
  It's not as abysmal as a lot of reviews indicate, but it's not anything incredible, either.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfectsniper10
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  i was expecting alot of things out of this game like for and example the story doesent continue 
 the first one which made me mad because i never really got to know what was on the truck. another 
 thing is that it should have been a sequel is because i like it when you turn into that alien thing 
 that was fun and i think if they kept it they would new moves and crap to it. another thing is 
 that i liked fighting those bosses and martian things with the shield around them. another thing 
 is no two player split screen. the weapons from the first one were not in it as well. also there 
 is nobody ever online. the only thing was somewhat good about it was the storyline itself was decent. 
 the diffcutly of the season was fairly easy. if only they took the first and improved it with a 
 new story line this game would be so fun and it would have a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SithWarrior1
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  abysmal. . . I wasted like 60$ (when it came out) only to see how easy it was, boring, dumb story 
 it had, it was expensive, buggy, I dont recommend it; DONT waste ur time and money in this, u can 
 do better things, please DO review games before buyin 'em, dont do like I did; and in the game (spoilers..) 
 some lame "comrade" that gets accidently gets left off, appears miraculously at the end, thinkin 
 he's rambo, so hes the last boss, the protagonist does NOT speak, people that shouldn't die actually 
 do, and the one that deserves it.. survives. And theres no subtitles and the aimin aint as comfortable 
 as cod4-5 (beta) , but that part isn't much of an issue. I think i actually finished it in less than 
 8 hours and it was easy too, I thought before it came that it was goin to be something good to 
 be lookin forward since it was well promoted by the trailer cause it was nice, but maybe i just 
 dont remember, and now that I remember, one of the bugs was in the courtroom where I believe to 
 have been the third chapter where I got stuck in some splinter and another was in the second chapter 
 when the fabric of the game got all messed up and I was once outside of part of the map and the 
 underground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Expensive
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  interesting game, it is fun game interesting story, its pretty much youre run of the mill shooter 
 but i enjoyed it, the story really makes you think about your worth, the missions were pretty good, 
 my only problem that i had was that IT WAS TO SHORT!!!! it starts out in iraq then it saids like 
 months or so later, you end up in nevada in a town called Rachael, and it gets attacked WARNING 
 GONNA SPOIL THE GAME!!!! there called reborn and there USA Grade mad scientist experiments, and 
 they want revenge, but its a fun game it keeps you going, and there are parts that i think they 
 could have done better with different point i felt there should have been more in different spots, 
 i hope they have a 2nd one i've heard form a friend there gonna so i hope the solve the short problem, 
 but the multi player is entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift1981
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game wont win any awards but that doesn't make it bad! Its a good old fashioned FPS romp 
 through some great varied locations with a decent story and some nice standout moments. There are 
 some massive enemies in the game, most of which burst from the ground and there really great. The 
 ground enemies could have been more varied but theres still a fair amount of them. Weapons are 
 on the thin side too but all the important ones are there, and if a weapon works well then thats 
 all you need right?? I can see why people shoot this game down, loading/crashing issues, buggy 
 in parts and occasional slowdown. But none of this amounts enough to ruin the experience. The game 
 certainly hooks you in in parts and although its not much more than a linear run and gun, its still 
 very enjoyable. It proves games dont have to be too in depth and over complicated to still kick 
 ass in the fun department! So if you like shooting aliens from another planet (lets face it who 
 doesnt?) and your looking for a fun and at times stunning FPS look no further. Available in most 
 bargain bins too so all the better. You might finish it in 6hours or so but why is that a bad thing?? 
 Besides, who has time to finish a game these days? aside from teenagers who only leave there bedrooms 
 to excrete! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  I actually kind of liked this game. The controls were pretty basic, the moral thing is cool. It 
 had some really great cinematic moments that I thought were really cool. 
  The problems with this game though are that it gets tied into being the sequel to an amazing FPS 
 like AREA 51. I think this is a mistake, because there is nothing about this game that really ties 
 it self into the first AREA 51 game. It shouldn't have labeled itself as another AREA 51 game and 
 just been it's own stand alone title. I think people compared this game to the first and not on 
 it's own merits.
  
  The game really isn't intense enough neither. Although there are some really cool cinematic moments 
 with some of the creatures, you'll never feel overwhelmed with the action, it's pretty easy. I 
 liked that the environments always change, the graphics are good, except that the characters have 
 too much of the white sheen, silhouette around them. The AI characters have plenty of personality 
 though. The game has one glitch though where the weapons of your enemies stay here they died, even 
 in mid air instead of falling to the ground. So you'll see floating weapons and ammo. The game suffers 
 from not a lot of variety of weapons also, and the length of the game will have you scratching 
 your head. I played it for about 4 hrs.... way to short to be of any value as a purchase. This is 
 definetly a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  This game has really been given a bad name
  in reviews and magazines but i think it is fantastic.
  From the moment i got it i didnt want 
 to stop playing. The game is full of action and shooting from start to finish. The weapons in the 
 game are really good and feel powerfull. Vehicle control isnt on the goodside though, its not that 
 hard to use but the cars in the game shouldnt be there. Also the being on the tourent made me kind 
 of bored. There are alot of glitches and bugs in the game that stop it from being its best. The 
 story is solid and good but you need to wait until the end for everything to make sence. The enemies 
 are great in the game except the first aliens you see. The game is pretty easy so i would recomend 
 playing on normal or hard. Overall this is just a game to have fun playing, not to serious go out 
 buy it, give it a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  If you're familiar with the Area 51 series then you should know that it has to do with aliens. 
 And the game of Blacksite pretty much doesn't dissapoint in this category. There are quite a few 
 aliens in the game but some of them feel like they're just a model swap of other enemies. Other 
 than that you'll be fighting things like Alien Soldiers, Alien Walkers that detatch themselves 
 from their bodies and go kamikaze, little spore aliens, and a few others. The guns in the game 
 are a pretty cool too. You got your basic load out of the usual Machine Guns and pistols and such, 
 as well as a few alien weapons. The A. I. is a beit on the dumb side, but this is for the enemies. 
 Your squadmates have a pretty advanced knowledge of their surroundings and will react accordingly. 
 If you shoot at glass and other destructables alot they will remart about you wasting ammo, and 
 depending on if you are doing good or bad in combat your allies will either rally to destroy you 
 enemies or fall back until the tides turn in the battle. But as I said, this kind of game is a 
 love it hate it kind of thing. Make sure to rent it or borrow it from a friend before you decide 
 to make a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunaticrichard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  it is at best a mediocre fps. but that doesn't mean its not fun. there are a lot of bugs and the 
 game is far from finished when it came out.
  an example of this is that when you drop an enemy, he drops the gun where he falls. i. e. in the air, 
 on a tank or in mid air which is not an accepted thing in games today.
  but the game is fun if you can overlook the problems the game has. online its accepteble i think 
 but not more than that. its standard.
  but if you like brainless shooters its okay and i would defenitly get it out of the budget bin.
 
  the game is not worth the full price by a long shot. not in these times with so many exelent games. it 
 is defenitly for the fans of sci-fi games and then still it doesn't get better then average. its 
 mindles fun for a couple of hours and there's nothing wrong with that!
  if you still have doubts, check this site for a pro revieuw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Area 51: Blacksite is the third installment to the Area 51 series. It is held back by it's glitches, 
 and other malfunctions through out the game, occasionally freezing in the middle of gameplay. 
 
  
  Gameplay: It's an average shooter, it includes nothing original to the game. Average weapons, squad 
 tactics, similar gameplay to any other war shooter. It lacks originality from it's previous predecessors. 
 Although, the game is the third installment, you don't necessarily need to play the first two, 
 to understand everything throughout the game. 
  Graphics: The game is run by Unreal Technology which quickly tells you the graphics won't be disappointing, 
 and they aren't. It has a similar texture to both GoW and Turok which both run in Unreal Technology 
 engine.
  
  What it wants to be: Blacksite attempts to be a little too much like CoD4. Because CoD4 was a huge 
 success, there have been attempts to copy it's ground breaking gameplay. Unfortunately, Blacksite 
 falls into this category of copies, if it would have stuck to it's predecessor's way of game play, 
 maybe it would have become a truly great game.
  
  Even though this game has a handful of problems holding it back. You can't resist, but smile when 
 playing this game. Somehow, you remember the old days of the PS and remember being afraid while 
 walking down a corner, this game has none of that. It's an average shooter, with an average campaign, 
 and average online, but you can't help liking it so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listerfiend21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I was very excited thinking it was a sequel to area 51, turns out 
 it wasnt and if it was (99% sure it isnt) its a poor excuse for one. The Story takes place in modern 
 day U. S, u were part of a unit that saw something strange take place in iraq a few months back, 
 you are called in because they believe they are seeing what you saw in Iraq, you are supposed to 
 hold off the alien and mutants from taking over the world with a few twists here and there. The 
 Gameplay is very boring, you can command your squad but it doesnt matter if you do or dont, they 
 still suck. The guns also are bad there are only 6-7 guns in the game and it would be alright if 
 they were FUN to use but they are not and they suck all of the fun a FPS should have. You can also 
 drive in vehicles which could be fun but is worse than the guns. THe Graphics are strange, they 
 can be remarkable at times and at other times okay and glitchy. Thes sound in the game is pretty 
 good from the worms emerging from the ground but not so hot with the guns sound, the acting is 
 also par with some good and some bad. My main problem with this game is that it didnt try to do 
 anything different to seperate itself from the other games, its has no attempt at all and that 
 just shows a lack of effort on their part. The story mode lasts about 8-10 hours but theres also 
 a multiplayer mode but there might as well not be one because i have never seen more than 6 people 
 online playing this game and I dont blame them, its boring, they should be playing GOW or COD4 
 or GTA4 but not this theres nothing special about the MP. Overall if you really really want to 
 play this game just rent it, its not worth the price to keep you'll just be using it as a frizbee 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Far_cry-sniper5
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  this game where should i start. yeah you in the middle east oh but look ugly aliens again, at least 
 they reamped the graphics, sound, and monsters. for the guns there are only 2 alien weapons and 
 that rest are human weapons. in the first one at least you were able to turn the tides with the 
 aliens own weapons. but now the aliens don't use human weapons. the graphics are really nice especially 
 when all you see is sand and buildings that are broken. the sound and music are really cool but 
 wouldnt everyone like to hear some good rock music when in a very intense battle? the story is 
 pretty good but your not the same character as in the first one. in this one you play as aeran 
 peirce when he signed up he didnt expect this. but it kinda makes the game a bit blan since you 
 can't turn into an alien any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechTrooper
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Story: there isn`t much on the story of Blacksite only that there have been many secrets of aliens 
 and that they have broke out into the world so not much on it to be honest.
  
  Weapons: Some of the weapons are impressive but not many of them,
  
  Machine Gun: 8
  Plasma 
 Rifle: 8.5
  Basically the others are boring.
  
  Charcters: the characters are good especially the Soldier Cody Grayson who is a wisecrack king,
 
  Somers however was a very good soldier until he was surrounded by aliens and became the Alien 
 Leader.
  
  Enemies: the enemies are cool the aliens are awesome especially the spore towers there huge and 
 pretty easy to kill
  
  the other area 51 is nothing compared to Blacksite since the storys better the weapons r greaty 
 and the charcters are hilarious 
  
  Overall: pretty good i give it 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseman242424
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  CONTROLS
  I will start in the most important part of games, to me, the controls. The game uses the time honored 
 standard shooting and throwing controls which is good. The one button squad commands in easy, too 
 bad the A. I aren't that good. Driving is also very easy. I didn't like the toggle crouch (halo) 
 so i switched it to one press crouch (cod 4)
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is your standard run and gun shootouts. The A. I is lacking though. Your allies aren't 
 too smart and won't go too far away from you, so using them to draw enemy fire while you flank 
 won't work. The only good thing is that the enemy A. I is just as bad as yours. They rarely use 
 cover and your teammates are grenade happy. The game isn't super linear and it doesn't hold you 
 by the hand by showing you where too go. Yuor main squad members are invincible but can be knocked 
 out for short amounts of time. The squad is mainly used to open doors and sent charges, which you 
 can't do yourself, until your by yourself and you can activate stuff halfway accross the map. (a 
 small stretch) I did enjoy the gameplay though but it isn't too difflecult to beat the game. The 
 parts in Rachal and the Base Camp are the best.
  
  GRAPHICS/ANIMATIONS
  This game isn't ugly, it's just right. You get the occasional pop in areas and your weapons will 
 go through walls sometimes. The car can hit some unseen forces and just fly in the air. Sometimes 
 you can get stuck for no reason but you can get out of it without having to reset. I enjoyed the 
 city of Rachal which I thought was very well done.
  
  STORY
  I did enjoy your allies chatter but I never really grew attached to them. The story is alright 
 but won't win any awards.
  
  OTHER
  You may play this once or twice again to get a few more achievements. None are too hard, but some 
 would take a good amount of playing time. I haven't been able to play online since I haven't found 
 one match. with no offline multiplayer or co-op to help. this game is good for the 10$ i put out 
 for it, brand new.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is a FPS with monsters and aliens. Let me just warn you, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. This is 
 a good game to rent but don't but it.
  
  The first level is really boring, but don't get discouraged because the last levels can get fun. 
 The AI is really stupid and the game is very easy even on the hardest mode. The game isn't that 
 realistic.
  
  Hmmm... Multiplayer. The multiplayer is terrible! The game can not start until at least 4 people 
 are playing. You might be saying, that should be easy to get into a game with then... 
  
  The game is very short. I beat the game in about 2 hours. I wasn't even rushing through it and 
 I hadn't even played it before, so I didn't know what I was doing.
  
  This game lacks variety of weapons. There are only about 5-6 weapons in the game. The pistol, rocket 
 launcher thing, some shotgun thing, an assault rifle, a sniper, and some other guns.
  
  The story line doesn't make any sense. Everything happens so quickly.
  
  Spoilers may be ahead, 
 I don't even know
  
  This is what I think the story line was- -  You go to area 51. There are aliens attacking people. 
 You save them. You leave a team mate behind. You fight random monsters for 6 levels. You and your 
 team mate fight. You kill him. The game ends.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  
  Score: 5 out of 10
  
  Have you ever played a video game 
 where the entire game is saved by the story that everything else sucks? Well guess what? we have 
 that game right now, with Blacksite Area 51 you have the example of the story saving everything. 
 You play as some Army guy, if I remember right I don't really care because the game sucks so badly. 
 You start off in Iraq with 2 other guys, I don't remember their name either well, after fighting 
 there for awhile, you make it to a base and you fight soldiers who have a "Illness" I'm not a einstein 
 but I can tell they weren't normal human beings those things were aliens. Well after that mission 
 is over you lose one of your guys and if I remember right the game skips 2 years into the future 
 I think and your now in a No named Nevada town if I remember right checking out a incident when 
 all of a sudden aliens attack. The story idea is great but the game sucks, I can't continue I'm 
 sorry. Visually, auditory and controller wise the game was just under par this game looked like 
 something it should have been on the XBox or PS 2, but not a current gen console. To top it off 
 the last two things, I'll comment are if your really committed you can complete the game in under 
 6 hours and the other thing is the AI sucks. Overall, this game isn't worth buying unless you want 
 to punish yourself. a 5 out of 10 it would have got less but the story safes this game from a 1 
 out of 10. This just proves that not all Demos are possible good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUMBOSAUSAGE
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  POOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOP THATS ALL THIS GAME IS ITS A BIG FAT POOP AND THE GRAPHICS ARE 2.8 AND IT 
 SMELLS LIKE POOP AND IT HAS A BAD SMELL AND IT SMELLS LIKE POOP AND I HATE IT IT WAS BORING AND 
 IT ALSO SMELLS LIKE POOP AND IT HAS A DAD AND IT POOPAH OH YES ALIENS SMELL FUNNY POOOOP YEAH BABY 
 COME ON BABY YEAH POOP ANYONE WHO READS THIS IS A TURD YEAH BLACK SAUSAGE YEAH SEXY SEXY SEXY SEXY 
 SEXY SEXY SEXY TIME ASIAN BABY FART MR BURNS LIKE A CREAM CAKE YEAH POOP BRING IT ON BABY SHUT 
 UP JIMBO POOPY BUM ITS DYNAMITE POOOPY BUM HEY HEY HEY HEY POOPY BUM IT WILL GIVE U A FRIGHT POOPY 
 BUM WATCH ME EXPLODE DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN A COME RIGHT OUT OF 
 THE DARKNESS just been in the poopy BUM DEN DEN DEN DEN DEN POOP OBLIVION=poop yeah HAPPY EASTER 
 AND A MERRY NEW DAMO POOOOOOOOOOP SMELLS LIKE CURRY POTATO KAMEO MUM POOOOOOOOOOP AHHHHHHHHHHH 
 BLECKY UPA COOSHON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparten1012
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Blacksite is the most definitely the most broken game I have ever played and a shame to it the 
 original area-51 that was so good. The game had an interesting idea expanded the game play past 
 area-51, but hear this. Blacksite is the sequel to area-51 for the Xbox one of my favorite games 
 but think of this an area-51 game with no aliens at all not at all. Congratulation you've thought 
 of blacksite. Ok I know what you're thinking. "no aliens but the games fun right? I mean the game 
 play makes up for it right?" and my answer is a resounding **** NOOOOO. The game play looks like 
 they stopped at and said let's make this the ****iest shooter known to man. And they pretty much 
 did that the combat system has controls that seemed to be designed by a skisafrenic (I know I spelt 
 it wrong) gears player (not that there's something wrong with gears) the moral system though a 
 good idea is the idea that the more bullets you take in the balls the braver your men become. The 
 game has so many glitches. An enemy has literally spawned 5 feet in front of me. (And it happened 
 more than once) you start off with a team **spoiler ahead*** that one after another get killed 
 off oddly from most likeable to lest to the point where you only have one a lying **** that seems 
 to be as helpful as a paper cut out. the ending is completely phoned in literally it seems like 
 then went "ummm ummm make it go boom!!!!!!" and the main character from the first isn't even mentioned. 
 Over all it's a victim of trying to hurry so you can make the realse date and an idiotic writer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  this game took no more then 10 hours to beat the story mode. it didn't really have a story. come 
 to think about it. the shooting was okay. the graphics were pretty damn good. it doesnt get any 
 easier then blacksite: area 51. the main boss fight was stupid. the ending was just. there wasnt 
 even a ending. the game just ended out of nowhere. you should rent this game for 8$ in stead on 
 buying for 60$. i even beat the game on hard and it was still to easy and the story mode went by 
 way too fast. they needed to put about 4 or 5 hours more into this game. i mean it was fun whoopin 
 some alien ass for a while. the shooting was okay. ive played alot of first person shooters. and 
 played ones way better this one. either way it was a decent game. nothing great or nothing special. 
 i liked driving the vehicles. now that was fun. there controlling was almost perfect. why walk 
 miles when you can just drive a hummer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lost_Planet123
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  As I said this is a very underatted game. I just dont get why so many people hate this game. I 
 know there are alot of better shooters like COD 3 and 4 and Gears of War, but this game is certainly 
 up there. The creators of the game did a great job with graphics, weapons, and the environment. Sure 
 the game is a little short and some levels, even on casual (easy) , are pretty hard. But nothing 
 a little expierience cant fix. If you are thinking of getting this you certainly should. The story 
 as I said is very compelling. The first episode is in iraq, where the environment couldn't be better. 
 The next is going to a small town in Nevada where militia have seized area 51. You are in the middle 
 of preparing an assault on area 51. In the game you will be fighting a numder of species of aliens 
 along with the militia trying to get in area 51. Thats just a little detail about the game. In 
 my opinion this is the most underatted, if not one of the best, first-person shooters this year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  ---------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: Okay
  Sound: Okay
  Entertaining: Yes
  Format: First-Person Shooter
  Genre: Science Fiction
  Replay: Moderate
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Just outside of a small Iraqi village you and two of your Delta Force squadmates, Grayson and Somers, 
 gather. You're gearing up for an assault. For months now, your squad has been searching for WMDs. 
 Now, at least, you've found them - you hope. Intel reports that there is a cache of WMDs in an 
 underground bunker beneath the village. Your mission is to take the village, seize the lab and 
 find those WMDs. Regular US Army forces are providing support.
  
  2 Years Later...
  
  Your squad is dispatched to rural Nevada. The desert is now a war zone. News stations are reporting 
 that militia extremists have seized Area 51. The US is in the middle of an unpopular war. There 
 is a tremendous amount of unrest, and there's been a growing outcry against the government. Military 
 resources are stretched very thin. Area 51 has been a wasteland for years, ever since the government 
 shut the facility down.
  
  In the command center, Colonel Green conducts a briefing. The army has tried to open a line of 
 communication with the militia inside the facility. There's been no response. Troops have already 
 entered the nearby town of Rachel in preparation for an assault on Area 51. They've lost radio 
 contact. If the militia gets a hold of some of the materials inside Area 51, things could get out 
 of control...
  
  In BlackSite: Area 51 you play as Aeran Pierce. He is a guardian. In his opinion, the world is 
 an unjust place - but he is one of the tough guys, and it's his job to protect others. If he believes 
 in a cause, he'll take it all the way - even if that means defying authority. Pierce is easy-going, 
 when he's in charge. When the balance of power tips, he becomes intense and focused.
  
  BlackSite is a fairly good game. There was some difficulties that I had with my game. Sometimes 
 when I was playing the game would suddenly freeze and then I would have to start the level all 
 over again. I am not sure if this goes for every game though. Also, it would sometimes jump, kind 
 of like you were playing an advanced game for your slow computer. 
  
  -------------------------------------------------
  Recommend playing?
  - Yes, that is if you 
 like Shooters!
  ------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bclagrange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  I went into playing this game not expecting very much. I picked it up at my local gamestop for 
 $17.00. I heard all the bad reviews fr it o I just wanted to see for myself. I was very pleasantly 
 surprised. The graphics were great and the story like most video games was passable. A lot of reviews 
 have said that the shooting does get boring, but to me a lot of FPS can get boring. Although I 
 wasn't bored at any part of the game. The multiplayer is good and the weapons are nice. The controls 
 seem fluid when your playing the game also. The game is naturally a FPS, but you also get to drive 
 vehicles and use a turret in a chopper on more than one occasion. I bought this and devil may cry 
 and I loved this game so much I sold devil may cry, now that's a sucky game, the camera sucks. 
 Anyway do yourself a favor and pick this game up. Its only 17.99 used at gamestop. Despite what 
 the revies say this game is great and well worth the money. Too Muchprotein-xbox live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  This is just a rough rating beacuse I only played the demo, however this gave me very bad impressions 
 about this game and not go near the retail version.
  
  I know some fanboys like this game however how are you supposed to enjoy the game when you have 
 2 squads standing by the door and heres me trying to open it and this message appeared that I can 
 give squad commands to allow my squad to open up the door instead by looking at the marker and 
 pressing the button to command the squad and they say "No can do" so I was very confused and frustrated 
 because I had to do this so many times and it would not work anyway and decided to restart the 
 level yet the same thing happened again so I tried looking around the level to make sure that I 
 was in the right place and I was.
  
  So this is why I gave a bad rating for this game and I got a good reason why to do so and if you 
 call me n00b, make sure you look it up on your nearest dictionairy (I played games for many, many 
 years and my first game was Unreal at the age of 8) Theres your histroy for the day :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  this game is total sweetness and the critics give it a 6 i dont think so this game sure had some 
 bugs but every games do! and sure the squad comand dose not work so well but u only need it when 
 opening doors!! but one thing that did bug me was the lack of weapons and some of the enemys were 
 just a little to hard to kill dont listen to those critics who are all picky about games that have 
 just tiny little problems this is a game for all FPS lovers and one that will keep you busy for 
 about 10 hours of fantastic gameplay!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and the live is fantastic even though you 
 cant find a verry good game but when you do find them the experience was just super awsome and 
 the gamplay runs smooth and so do the voice acting and the monsters the monsters on this game were 
 totally amazing like the spore towers those things were so  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to go into huge detail here, but I think BlackSite: Area 51 is a game that players 
 have missed out on because of the low scores it got from game review sites. Sure, it has its fair 
 share of problems, like floating that float above the ground after you drop it or kill a guy. But 
 on the whole, the game is fun. Your squad mates are funny and actually DO something. As long as 
 you keep their morale up, they can kick some butt. The story is acceptable. Nothing deep, but nothing 
 super lame/cheesy either. There are some "on the rails" shooter sequences, but they are intense 
 and exciting. There is not an abundance of weapons like in some shooters, but who needs 20 different 
 guns when the ones you are given work well enough. Does the game deserve a 10? No definitely not, 
 but I don't think it deserves as low of a score as it got. If you can't figure out what to rent 
 next, try giving BlackSite a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 6
Date: May 28, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  BlackSite: Area 51 is a game that can best be described using the analogy of a summer blockbuster. 
 That is, this game is at times loads of fun, but to enjoy it you'll have to accept the weak graphics, 
 AI, and and level design. Like a summer movie, you will get your day's worth of entertainment, 
 but don't expect to be playing this game time and time again, especially when one just like it, 
 albeit much better made, comes out almost every week.
  
  In BlackSite you play as Captain Pierce, a US Marine who remains silent and faceless throughout 
 the game. Joining him are the members of Echo Force, a team of marines originally based in Iraq. 
 This is where the game opens, and where the stage is set for the events to come. Without ruining 
 anything, Blacksite revolves around an uprising in Nevada of what is initially believed to be a 
 local militia but what eventually turns out to be something a little more diabolical. The best 
 part of this game is the political satire that plays out in almost every level. References to the 
 war in Iraq, corrupt government officials, and secretive military operations abound, and it is 
 refreshing to play a shooter whose story has more to it than several steroid injected alpha males 
 slaughtering obviously evil alien monster zombie nazi terrorists. Here, the villains are of a more 
 grey background, and their goals, while still utterly wrong, are brought about by equal wrongs 
 done to them by society. My favorite line occurs in the first level, set in Iraq, when one of your 
 squadmates asks, "Who sells construction workers heavy weapons?" To which another team member responds, 
 "I think we do." 
  
  But a game is more than a story, and BlackSite unfortunately doesn't have the complexity or the 
 polish to back up its politically charged plot. Blacksite is a FPS through and through. You have 
 your standard assault rifle, pistol, rocket launcher and sniper, as well as a couple experimental 
 guns, that really are pretty common in sci-fi shooters. Unlike other shooters though, Blacksite's 
 guns only have a single fire option, cannot be modded or upgraded, and aren't numerous enough to 
 maintain interest throughout the whole game. Besides, I beat the final boss with the same weapon 
 I started with on the first level. None of the other guns have more than a minor role. 
  
  Luckily, the actual gunplay feels pretty on, although sniping is a little loose. You can duck behind 
 destructible cover, but you can't "take cover" per say. You also have squad commands, but they 
 rarely do what you tell them to, and usually die within seconds of a firefight starting, so there 
 is little value in giving orders outside of specific instances when a squad member needs to input 
 a code or break down a door. Moreover, your squad will sometimes get in your way during a firefight, 
 and will often charge straight into enemy fire. They also tend to throw endless barrages of grenades- 
 even at helicopters. Their grenades also usually end up exploding in your face rather than taking 
 out an enemy. Luckily your squad can't damage you. 
  
  Other than the repetitive gunning down of seemingly endlessly respawning soldiers, there are also 
 a couple turret and vehicle sequences. The turret sections can best be described as dull and monotonous 
 and the vehicles are so floaty that you can barely drive them. The game really is at its best when 
 you are shooting at some enemy scum. Of course most likely the enemy wont be shooting back, as 
 the AI for opponents is even worse than that of your squadmates. Here are some tactics I have seen 
 the enemy employ: Hide behind cover that doesn't exist, shoot at an enemy who isn't shooting them 
 over one that is, run right past an enemy to engage another one further away, and my favorite, 
 seeing me and then responding by running in the opposite direction letting me easily gun them down. 
 
  
  The poor AI never ruins BlackSite, and in fact makes some difficult parts much easier to beat, 
 but it is discouraging to see a game in 2007 have such idiotic N64 quality AI. On the other hand, 
 the boss fights in BlackSite are enjoyable, at least until you have played them three times over. 
 It would have been nice to see some bosses at least gain a new attack or two with each successive 
 encounter, as it is though, each boss fight is largely the same as the last. The final boss encounter 
 is appropriately the hardest part of the game, but is still easily beatable. 
  
  In fact the game is easy enough all the way through. I would recommend playing on medium to start, 
 as this will deliver a challenge without being overwhelming. Also nice as far as the Xbox 360 version 
 is concerned, beating the game on a harder difficulty setting also earns you the achievement for 
 beating on the lower setting. BlackSite is a relatively short game. We're not talking Halo 3 short, 
 but this is easily beatable in a weekend. There is an online portion to this game, but with so 
 few players online I chose to skip it. The only other extending feature of this game are some unlockable 
 dossiers that are scattered throughout each level, but with all honesty this game is really a very 
 poor value without a healthy online community. 
  
  Blacksite looks ok. The levels all have that shiny UE3 look to them that is great for metal and 
 stone but terrible for rock and grass. The weapons are boring to say the least, but the characters 
 animate well enough. Unlike some other players I haven't experienced any glitches in the game beyond 
 getting stuck a couple times. The load times are unacceptably long, the framerate drops here and 
 there (although at times it makes the game almost unplayable) and there are some issues with floating 
 bodies and guns, but all and all the game isn't terrible to look at. But for a game released last 
 holiday, the stakes are extremely high, and being average just doesn't cut it in today's cutthroat 
 industry. 
  
  The same goes for the sound effects and music, which are non-intrusive but far from memorable. 
 The voice actors get the job done and at times even deliver their lines with great aplomb. Mostly 
 though the audio package, like the rest of the game, is merely ho-hum. 
  
  And that really sums BlackSite up. The game is just average. It's not broken or unplayable by any 
 means, but compared to the competition BlackSite just doesn't cut it. Still, if you have played 
 all of last year's big guns and need something to do while you wait for the next big thing than 
 BlackSite will keep you busy for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xid32
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game seems rushed. You do have a squad, yes, and they do take cover, but there isn't really 
 a cover system for you to use. This game is riddled with bugs, such as my squad mates sometimes 
 running into a wall and just getting stuck, weapons in mid-air, objects just vanishing, squad mates 
 warping 20 yards, enemies just disapearing then re-appearing in random locations. 
  
  Another thing that bugs me, is the driving. These things drive like little toy cars, controls make 
 it worse, your AI gunners are downright stupid and useless, and at some points, there will be huge 
 things barreling toward a squad-mate, and he will either stand there and stare at it, or run towards 
 it, and thus, killing him.
  
  The sad part is this game COULD of been good. it COULD of been a 9.3 atleast if they polished it, 
 this game would'nt even make it as a beta. You can destroy cover but you cant destroy a fence.... Missions 
 seem long, and you don't enjoy playing this game for more than 1 hour, ever. 
  
  The visuals and sounds ARE decent, but i've realized some sounds ripped from far-cry.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 7
Date: May 15, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  At first I had high hopes for this game but as soon as I put in the game I could see this was going 
 to be a dissapointment. The gameplay is standard first person shooter of find the enemy take cover 
 and kill the enemy. The soldiers are stero-typed and try to do macho stuff like push ups for no 
 reason. The story is your regular aera-51 encounter of you find some weird stuff and are then told 
 to forget about it. The game mechanics work fine but overall this is just an average game. It's 
 not that there is anything broken but there is anything new its just been there done that before. 
 The story moves kind of slow but then picks up. The enemy AI works fine it not smart but it's not 
 dumb either. The graphics are fine but there not amazing. After a while the game gets old and you 
 won't have the urge to finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trollbane
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 4, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The GOOD-
  1) Graphics look nice, but are ok (7)
  2) A. I. is also pretty good (7)
  
  The BAD-
  1) Not enough variety to enemies, just the same 7 aliens/elite soldiers over an over 
 again (5)
  2) Not enough variety to weapons, only 6 guns, 3 of which are common to find! (5)
  3) Another 
 Government conspiracy/experiment gone wrong plot (4)
  
  The OK-
  1) 6-8 hours of gameplay (6)
  
  FINAL WORDS-
  An overall OK game, worth a rental, or a purchase 
 for $10-15.
  
  REAL SCORE- 6.7
  
  Still have another 20 words or so to go....
  I actually haven't beaten the game yet, stuck at a part where a BIG alien keeps on zapping me....
 
  I just wish that Gamespot would give us a break on the 800 word minimum, don't they wan't our 
 contributions!?! I also dislike the GTA series, they are evil games, lqtm, you steal, murder, buy 
 drugs, kill cops, and such, not all of it is bad but, y'know. I really hope I have enough words 
 now.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 6
Date: May 4, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The first Area 51 was pretty fun and had a great story, you can't say the same about this one. The 
 story is nice and the visuals are okay but only okay. There is so many bugs and glitches in this 
 game its hard to play 4 hours straight because you will either get stuck in a while or your stupid 
 A. I. friends will go crazy and let you die. Gamespot said the story mode was kinda long but its 
 like four or five levels long, to me that isn't very long. The online is pretty disappointing also. The 
 modes are so dull and boring, you might not even be able to gather up a team to even reach the boringness. The 
 weapons aren't to great either. But a six is pretty good for this because the only real good things 
 are easy achievements, good story and okay graphics. The unreal engine didn't do to much for this 
 game.
  
  Real score 5.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kletoskletos
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  First of all i want to say that the whole game was a very nice experience.
  To start with the story of the game is exceptionally good but only lasts for 5 hours. The grafix 
 are pretty good although sometimes they really sux and the animations are somewhat poor. The music 
 of the game is ok but the sound sometimes isn't very convenient.
  In the other hand the gameplay is a bit boring especially after a few hours of paying the game 
 because the levels are repetitive. The multiplayer is abysmal and and the weapons awful.
  Of course the game is very good for those who want to spend their time killing aliens and riding 
 vehincles in the middle of the desert and in the uninhabited towns full of alien life and other 
 terrible creatures like mutated men and animals.
  I recommend this game to anyone who likes classic FPS games and for people who enjoy most the story 
 of the games and not the grafix and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  If you have already beaten the good games, then go ahead and add this game to your que on gamefly. 
 
  
  I don't know how this game plays on the easier difficulties, because I beat it on hard. However, 
 if I only played Gears of War on casual I would have thought aht game sucked monkey balls. Gears 
 of War was only fun on the harder settings, and I think it is the same for Blacksite Area 51. 
 
  
  The gameplay is varied enough, and honestly, that is the only thing this game has going for it. 
 But in the old days we didn't play games for a story did we? For this reason alone it is not worth 
 buying. If it had a good story that kept you playing, it still would not be worth owning because 
 there is no one playing online. But it would at least make it worth renting for $8 or buy it used. 
 
  
  Again it is however worth adding to your que if you have played everything else that you have been 
 wanting to play. 
  
  Jericho was a better game if that means anything to you. But I sort of liked Jericho. Heck I beat 
 both games so that means I enjoyed them well enough. 
  
  The graphics are good enough, and so it the sound. Story sort of blows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkiller11
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  story wise its not great and i will not spoil anything so i will move on.
  graphics is very good but it would be when it uses the unreal engine, but their is some technical 
 glitches and really bad pop in. the thing that really made me get this game was the set pieces 
 and its great and makes you go ''wow'' when a giant worm comes out of a house with destruction.
 
  
  what let me down with this game was not just story but how rushed it felt, in some levels if you 
 go at the edge of the map i can see out it, or just getting stuck in some places to i have to restart 
 or kill myself, this game can be generic and no one plays online you might find 1 match with a 
 couple of people in but thats the most i seen. i say rent it and its short game i completed in 
 5 hours and a really bad ending. i wanted this game to be more scary and more jump out moments 
 but the aliens are not scary. rent this game first because you will love or hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1ck1983
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game for a few days now on and off for a couple of hours a day on the hardest 
 difficulty and im actually enjoying it, saying that though the hardest isnt exactly the hardest 
 either. Ok so its not the greatest of 1st person shooters due to there being a really wide range 
 of them out there, but being a fan of the genre i thought id give it a chance, plus it cost me 
 a tenner so i cant complain, the graphics are fairly decent and some of the landscape views are 
 nearly spectacular but they do fall short and as you advance through the game you do fell like 
 youve seen it all before. there is enough here however to keep you entertained despite the game 
 being quite short, you will find some parts of the game challenging especially if your running 
 low on ammo and get to a check point where theres not enough ammo to pick up, this happened to 
 me when i got to a narrow street with about 5-6 large aliens and loads of ground troops, i was 
 stuck for about 3hrs so i turned the bloody thing off and came back later only to get it done in 
 less than half an hour. it does have its let downs though ie a lack of weapons, i think ive come 
 across 5 or 6 in total, there are to many bugs and this is where the game is let down, it jumps 
 , freezes, you get stuck and have to restart from the last save, ive even got so far ahead of the 
 actual loading time and found myself in a ditch with nowhere to go, all in all it is a decent shooter, 
 it just needed that extra push to make it what it could have been, if you want a game with a little 
 twist killing aliens then its worth adding to the collection, easy game points for those who want 
 them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWhoopee10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, BlackSite: Area 51 is a great game but has a lot of negative feedback. To start 
 the games graphics are fantastic but it could have been better still. For an example, the dead 
 aliens that you have killed disappear almost instantly after killing them. I mean, its not like 
 they are mystical creatures that fade away into little sparkles like in supernatural games. They 
 could have stayed on the ground until you at least left the area, other than that the graphics 
 are pretty good. Next is the weapons. The low variety of weapons you have to choose from leaves 
 you with the same weapon through out the whole game. When playing shooters you want to have a good 
 range of weapons to use to be able to kill your enemy the way you want to. Although of all the 
 down points, it is a fun 1st person shooter to play and I would recommend getting it when it becomes 
 about $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  What happened? I put the game in to my xbox on the Thursday, played for a couple of hours. Did 
 the same on Saturday and.... what? the end boss already?
  
  And don't get me wrong, I'm not an expert in games. I play on the medium setting as this usually 
 offers a bit of a challenge without you wanting to rip your hair out with frustration. But the 
 game was finished before I had time to properly settle into it. 
  
  That doesn't mean to say I didn't enjoy playing it. I think theres always a place in my collection 
 for a nice plodding FPS that passes the time. It just won't rock anyones world.
  
  Blacksite is an average FPS that has some nice little touches that make it slightly better than 
 normal. 
  The only problem is none of these 'little touches' are expanded on, so all you're left with are 
 a lot of half baked ideas wrapped around yet another shooter you've played before. 
  
  The graphics are good, as are the voice actors. As everyone knows there are glitches throughout, 
 but I never had anything go too wrong that I had to restart a mission or restart my 360. 
  
  I've briefly played the Online Multiplayer and it seems like alot of fun, not groundbreaking, 
 but fun.
  
  
  Theres a reason the game got a 6. It's good but you'll quickly forget about it.
  You shoot aliens, 
 you shoot bigger aliens, it's finished.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 9 - Interesting and even at times addicting. Characters play very interesting and important 
 roles to the store. Rather short game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 4 - Fantastic graphics if you can overlook the exceedingly huge amount of bugs. 
 Alot of the over glare and discolor issues
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Great sound, realistic voices and enviornment sounds. Adds a lot to the feel of the 
 game.
  
  Environment/Maps: 9 - Maps work very well with the story line and the feel of the game. Maps are 
 very creative and never bland.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 5 - Once again, plenty of bugs and slow down time to spread around. AI is 
 very tough but makes it very challanging.
  
  Interface: 8 - Great and good looking interface.
  
  Menu: 7 - Good solid menu but I found at 
 times un-responsive.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Great game with a very addictive storyline. Overly full of bugs, infact, never could 
 get the ending to fully play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hex_Of_A_Nation
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  The game is ok. The bugs are plentiful.
  
  Blacksite: Area 51, I thought, was going to be an awesome game once I saw the trailers and posters 
 with the huge alien over the little girl with a bear. But later when I rented it, I realized I 
 was wrong.... again. First, if you run up to a wall with a gun equipped, the gun will not move or 
 go down, instead it goes straight through the wall. Also there are many roadblocks that you can 
 go through if you crouch. Mostly they are detection bugs (Bugs that involve barriers) which don't 
 hinder the gameplay much. 
  
  The enemy design was great. I loved how the enemies looked and the diversity between them all. 
 Theres one great boss fight in the middle of the story that is awesome. The difficulty could have 
 been a little bit more punishing, but it was decent.
  
  The story was alright. It wasn't revolutionary. It was another "Aliens attack Earth-Save mankind-kill-army 
 involved- evil overlord dies-hurray!" Although there is a small twist in the story, really small 
 though.
  
  Graphics were not top notch but were this gen. Textures were probably the best. And enemy design.
 
  
  I liked the squad's personality, it added some laugh factor.
  
  Overall, this is a good rental. Not a buy though. So yea..... thats it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  The storyline to Blacksite Area 51 is actually kind of interesting. Although unreal, it has lots 
 of action and the campaign is actually a decent lenght, compared to other games like COD4. 
  
  The visual graphics are very clear and sharp - even when I play it on a standard TV. One of 
 the better games graphics-wise that I've played in a while, right up there with COD4. There is 
 plenty of action throughout the entire game - enough to keep me interested.
  
  On the down side, the WAY TOO MANY bugs and glitches hold this game back. I've never seen a game 
 with soooo many GLITCHES. About 90% of the weapons float in mid-air, the game lags, skips, and 
 freezes during scenes with more action. A couple times it even caused me to die. I've gotten stuck 
 in vehicles, one time I was actually "inside" one of the other characters, and your squad members 
 sometimes say random things for no reason.
  
  Too bad the game suffers so bad from terrible framerate issues. I actually liked the story plot 
 behind the game. Its a good game, but I would recommend renting it first. If it wasn't so glitchy, 
 I would probably give it at least a 8-8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This review isn't very well-constructed or sensical, just in case you actually get this far in 
 reading it...
  
  When I played the first "Area 51" FPS game, I played a demo of it in a PS2 Mortal Kombat game. 
 I immediately thought the game was amazing. There I was, surrounded by teammates, charging into 
 battle, fighting tons of enemies at once like crazy. The demo was over after just a minute or so, 
 but it left me thinking I had to get the game.
  So I got it on the PC like half a year later. The game started off great. The player was surrounded 
 by a squad of important characters, and the game was non-stop action, with more and more teammates 
 around every corner, fighting off waves of enemies.
  Well, perhaps I make it sound TOO amazing, but I'm telling you, it was awesome.
  But suddenly, 
 the game sucked. The game kills off all of the player's teammates. The important characters, in 
 one fell swoop (more like two) were all taken out and the player was alone. But wait! The player 
 was promised more teammates. Indeed, he hooks up with the new teammates and they fight more endless 
 waves of enemies. Suddenly, THEY all die. And that is where the game instantly became a big piece 
 of crap. The player did not get anything remotely teammate-like for the rest of the game.
  The only entertaining part of the game afterwards was this thing where the player rides an elevator 
 accompanied by dramatic music then the music falls flat as the player comes upon the set of a fake 
 moon landing. The presentation was hilarious.
  
  Anyway, I told you that story to say that BlackSite: Area 51 is just like the beginning of Area 
 51, but it pretty much never fails where its predecessor did. Throughout the entire game, the player 
 gets buddies and fights lots of big, crazy battles. The graphics are amazing. The sounds are great, 
 but the thing that impressed me most was the attention to detail the ambience sometimes included, 
 like when I very faintly heard the sound of a train- nobody ever mentioned a train or mentioned 
 the sound of it- and I thought it was weird, but several minutes later, I suddenly came upon the 
 actual train. Though the train wasn't a big part of the game or anything, they still had an ambient 
 sound of it that either could or couldn't be noticed. I'm not sure why that impressed me so much.
 
  The voice acting is great. The characters all seem weird and their feelings are kind of flip-floppy, 
 but they're still interesting enough. The villain has the best voice acting, mainly at the end 
 of the game.
  The game is really buggy. The bugs aren't always recurring, sometimes they only happen at certain 
 moments and only sometimes, but there's enough to be bothersome.
  
  I don't really care about any of that crap, though. The only reason I wanted to write the review 
 was to mention things that really stood out as bothersome or awesome in the gameplay itself.
  The game is full of little gimmicks that are underused, or misused. Let's observe some!
  The 
 squad controls, for one, are really lame. Concentrating fire is really pointless. Allies don't 
 seem to shoot at the specific target any more than usual. The player must expose himself and look 
 at the enemy in order to concentrate fire. By this point, the player can just shoot the enemy himself 
 very easily. The 360 game actually has an achievement for when the player concentrates fire on 
 250 DIFFERENT ENEMIES. What!? The game hardly even has that many enemies throughout the entire 
 thing! The player would have to sit still in some infinite-enemies situation and just constantly 
 have the allies concentrate fire. It doesn't keep track of how many times the player does it, which 
 doesn't help.
  Allies never want to move where they're told, either. If you aim too far ahead, even though the 
 beacon will appear that shows where they're supposed to go, they don't move an inch or say anything. 
 Even when the player aims really close-by, if there's enemies around, they pretty much don't go 
 anywhere.
  Y'know what bothered me about the game is that there are some really cool effects with certain 
 objects blowing apart, but there's hardly enough explosions to blow it all apart. Sometimes, one 
 grenade can decimate a bunch of stuff all at once, and there are some really cool special effects 
 and stuff blowing apart with pieces going everywhere, but these moments don't get to happen often.
 
  I'm glad grenades are so effective. The player's grenades usually go where desired, and kill everything 
 he wishes. They're great. Allies use them all the time but enemies rarely use them.
  The plot is confusing. Though it's really interesting to go through it all, nothing is ever really 
 explained.
  The game is loaded with "hidden" dossiers (they have floating icons above them) all over the game, 
 and when you get them, they unlock dossiers. It's just as useless as it sounds. I got nearly all 
 of them by the end of the game, and rather than unlocking cool behind-the-scenes videos or totally 
 sweet cheats, they just gave me a picture of something and a description of it, neither of which 
 I need or desire.
  Allies paused too much on the hummer machine gun. They'd stop for no reason whilst shooting extremely 
 deadly enemies who needed to be killed ASAP.
  For some reason, there's a scene where the player's ally covers him from a helicopter, but to make 
 him shoot, he has to actually target an enemy for it, otherwise it just hovers and does nothing.
 
  The game kills off the player's friends in the dumbest ways. One dies in a helicopter crash, even 
 though he looks just fine. It's all dramatic and the other friends are standing around when he 
 dies, but it seemed stupid because everyone else was unharmed and it wasn't all that dramatic. 
 Another ally is on a rope when an enemy comes out and pulls him down either into a bottomless pit 
 or into a tunnel, I couldn't tell because where he was, and the angle of where he fell. Another 
 ally pretends to die, but comes back later all of the sudden and saves the player. That was actually 
 pretty cool, but was paced kind of weird.
  The player never speaks. Ever. Doesn't even have a face. He's like Gordon Freeman or something.
 
  Weapons were so lame. These were the weapons in the game: An M4 Carbine with Reflex Sight; A useless 
 pistol with a ridiculous achievement to get a big number of headshots; A sniper-rifle; An alien-ish 
 shotgun; An alien-ish rifle of doom; And a giant rocket launcher capable of locking onto body parts 
 of big aliens. That's it! It makes me wonder why they even bothered limiting the player to two 
 weapons when there's already hardly any weapons in the game at all. The alien-ish rifle of doom 
 doesn't appear until near the very end of the game. A couple of enemies just drop it and you can 
 use it if you desire but that's it. It's introduced way too late in the game and for all its power 
 gets no sort of attention. Some enemies actually use it in the chapter before, but only far away 
 for some reason.
  Aiming down the sight is cool, but the crosshair remains, which kind of makes aiming down the sight 
 seem pointless.
  Enemies! Now there's a mostly uninteresting group. Enemies consist of soldiers, really tall cyborgs, 
 "octopus dogs", these explosive spider things, and these worms that pop out of the ground.
  Then there's boss battles against a giant octopus dog-spawning spire, and a laser-shooting bug 
 thing (two battles each) . The first battles against both are awesome. Against the spire, the player 
 gets his allies, then he gets like four generic Americans, and they all have to fight endless waves 
 of octopus dogs whilst destroying the spire. What impressed me was that the friendly AI would actually 
 shoot at the spire's conveniently placed weak points that can somehow be locked onto by a rocket 
 launcher. In the second fight, however, it's just the player and two buddies against a smaller 
 amount of octopus dogs. It wasn't anywhere near as awesome as the first battle. It felt like they 
 just threw it in randomly. The laser-shooting bug's first battle was pretty cool, because lots 
 of Americans are running around in a panic and the player has to rush to get a rocket launcher, 
 past a bunch of Americans having a hard time. What bothered me was, once I got underground to get 
 the rocket launchers, I kept getting pestered by suicide bugs, and there was an American RIGHT 
 NEXT TO ME who completely ignored them. The battle was still cool. The second battle was set up 
 like it'd be amazing. The arena was HUGE! There were rocket launchers and hummers placed everywhere. 
 However, I already had a rocket launcher from the start. Even if I didn't, I'd only have to go 
 ten feet to get one. I killed the boss right away. It only took two rockets. His only allies were 
 some suicide bugs. The battle was really brief and the epic arena that could've been loaded with 
 teammates and FIVE laser-shooting bugs ended up being empty. It was unbelievably disappointing.
 
  Sometimes, enemies seem to get set on one target and then they never change their mind.
  Squad morale is pointless. I don't get it. It does get interesting responses out of teammates, 
 though.
  There's this general who the player only sees twice. His few appearances bugged me. What really 
 bothered me was the use of generic Americans. There are some awesome battles throughout the game 
 that involve American soldiers that aren't main characters, but as the game nears the end, there 
 gets to be almost none, even when it'd be completely appropriate. There's this one scene where 
 the player gets chased by a helicopter, and out in the middle of the valley there's this American 
 with a rocket launcher. He just shoots at the sky over and over and does nothing else. He was TOTALLY 
 inappropriately placed. He could've been moved to a much better part of the game!
  Iraq wasn't as dramatic as it should've been. The enemies came in unrealistically large amounts 
 and didn't look much like typical enemy Iraqis (they were supposed to be special guards or something, 
 but they were just hanging out in factories) . Also, all the fighting goes on in some factories 
 and such and it's all pretty lame. I guess if I really wanted to experience Iraq, I could join 
 the marines. War is never "cool" and people that are only a year or two older than me are fighting 
 in Iraq right now, so I feel ashamed when playing a game based in Iraq. It just would've been nicer 
 to have something more realistic, but the AI don't really allow for that. They at least used AK47s, 
 while everyone else in the game uses M4 carbines with reflex scopes. Y'know, there's no variation 
 on the M4 and there's no other American weapons besides the pistol. After playing Call of Duty 
 4, it just seemed really weird.
  There was one neat scene where enemy Iraqis actually surrendered ahead of time. That's pretty impressive 
 since the rest of the Iraq part was just three Americans massacring lots of Iraqis out in the open.
 
  The game is really short. Really really really. There were some awesome battles in the game, but 
 not enough, even when there could've been if a part of a level was changed up a little. There also 
 weren't enough civilians around. There's like four that I can remember spread throughout the game, 
 and it's otherwise empty. The player always comes across places that are COMPLETELY devoid of either 
 gun-toting friends or crazy enemies. It would've been great if the player actually got to experience 
 at least one scene of everything going to hell, not everything already gone to hell.
  The octopus dogs sometimes get into a scene in cool ways. Like, in the trailer park, they climb 
 over trailers and stuff. Not very often, though.
  There's this one big skeleton thing that was alive in one scene of the game, but nobody mentions 
 it and it doesn't really do anything and you only see it the one time.
  The ending was so lame. The player's friend that fell in the pit is never heard from again, and 
 the player and his one remaining ally ride a helicopter out of a base that's falling apart. She's 
 like "Now we can see how far the spores have spread!" As soon as the helicopter gets out of the 
 base, this dramatic note plays, but there's absolutely nothing dramatic to see, then the friend 
 says some completely unmemorable line and the music that started playing after the dramatic note 
 suddenly cuts off weirdly and it ended in such a weird way.
  
  That review was kind of stupid. I just kept randomly thinking of things that bothered me and I 
 wanted to type them down. I probably didn't even say everything I would've liked to. Thanks for 
 reading? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red-ray
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  It's a long time that midway is using Unreal Engine for making games but nowadays its UE based 
 games are not in good condition. Minus unreal tournament after disastrous hour of victory and fair 
 stranglehold it's time for Blacksite.
  Blacksite area 51 is last installment for the famous franchise area 51. The story begins at Iraq 
 alittle odd but whole the game even Nevada levels are heavily based on this section. Story hasn't 
 a strong role in the game but it fits the game and is acceptable at least in comparison with other 
 mediocre shooters.
  When you think of a shooter you imagine a brilliant graphic, for this game graphic is what you 
 expect from an UE powered FPS but not a topnotch. Character's modeling is not strong but you can 
 still understand others feelings by looking at their face. Enemies are better but there aren't many 
 different types of them. Environments look rather fine as is physics, many covers can be destroyed 
 so don't trust a stone. Bosses are power of the game. You will likely yell first time encounter a 
 spore tower, when it comes out of the ground everything goes in slow motion, objects blow in the 
 air... sounds cool, but soon you'll be disappointed when see that defeated creature just stay 5 
 sec and disappears in front of your
  eyes without any reason. Encountering the giant squid on a bridge from a chopper is an artistic 
 scene and its defeating scene is even more artistic, but so many graphical bugs never let you remember 
 these shocking scenes later. Maybe the biggest issue is that dead's guns will stick in place exactly 
 where they were just before death of their owners, so after each battle you'll likely see many 
 weapons floating in the air and after first battle its a real snap scene. Some places load late 
 maybe thanks to Unreal Engine. Blacksite also suffers from lack of good animation, along
  with some frame rate issues, crowded places are a thorn in your eyes. this will bothers you more 
 on 720p.
  Blacksite gameplay is using others experiences there's nothing new in term of gameplay. The game 
 lacks favorite humanic shotgun even though plasma projectile is playing its role.
  AI is a real crap. Eventually enemies rush to you but as soon as reaching they stay still and just 
 exhibit you! Your allied AI is same as your enemies, so you should fight well in order to keep 
 their morale high cause if it becomes low they don't even use that crapy Ai. A one button command 
 system is included, you can command your allies to go to a certain place or shoot a certain enemy 
 but they will not usually do that so dont waste your time.
  Driving sections are unrelated to game just a copy of gears of war as whole the game is, Believe 
 me! there are some places that your vehicle sticks and you should continue on foot or just restart 
 the game... a big problem.
  Multiplayer is familiar for shooters fans but its really a tough job to find players even in crowded 
 xbox live community, in addition that game is so easy and last just for 6 or 7 hours and if you 
 finish the game on red difficulty, after that yellow will not last more than 4 hours. there's no 
 value for replaying the game although in xbox360 version there are some achievements to increase 
 this value but nothing seems beautiful for killing
  400 enemy with each weapon.
  midway's games have a real big potential but rushing to launch them soon is really destroying these 
 ideas. Blacksite is a first person version of beautiful gears of war but not comparable with that 
 popular title in any aspect. So if you like shooters as me it will make your weekend a happy one 
 but don't expect any more. If you are not a FPS fan get away from this really! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Black site is a decent shooter but not much more. It doesn't do much different from other shooters, 
 and the stuff that is in Black site that others shooters did still doesn't feel all that great. 
 The gameplay in Blakcsite is pretty standard stuff. You see some guys you shoot them, you walk 
 from point a to point b, and you complete certian tasks to complete the missions. In Blacksite 
 you will mostly kill these mutant guys, but occasionally you will fight some regular people, which 
 don't behave any different from the regular enemies, so it really doesn't make much difference 
 who you are fighting. The action itself lacks that real intense feeling of excitement and suspense 
 that made shooters such as Fear, Gears of War, and Call of Duty 4 amazing shooters. The a. i. is 
 not very good either, and will usually do the same scripted stuff all over again. Blacksite also 
 lacks a variety of weapons, and you really only get an assault rifle, a pistol, a rocket launcher, 
 and a scattershot gun. The repetative nature of the action also goes into the weapons since there 
 is so little variety to the weapons, which makes the game feel all the more repetuous. There are 
 vehicle sequences in Blacksite, but they aren't especially fun, and don't really add much to the 
 whole experience. Blacksite also has weird level glitches, and an inconsistent frame rate. One 
 time I opened a door, and walked through it, and I had no place to go and could not contiune. I 
 reloaded the checkpoint, and then my teamate opens the door and the level loads just fine. At another 
 instant I walked forward and got stuck in a wall, and again had to the reload the checkpoint. Also 
 at some points during Blacksite the frame rate will just drop, and sometimes so much that your 
 whole console will freeze, which becomes really annoying. As for the multiplayer in Blacksite I 
 was unable to play at all ,because there was absolutely zero servers up. Graphically Blacksite 
 does look great, with excellent enviornments, and excellent characters designs as well. The sound 
 and voice acting are kind of average and aren't especially great. Overall 6.5/10 Overall Blacksite 
 is just another shooter, with a good number of flaws, and an extremlly derivative design, that 
 copies other shooters liberally. The campaign can provide some fun thrills however, considering 
 the huge number of quality shooters already avaliable for the 360, such as GOW, Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 Fear, and the Call of Duty series, you are better off playing those games, but if you are a big 
 fan of shooters, Blacksite could be worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Blacksite in the previews I thatOh man this game is gonna be like resistance: 
 Fall of Man - Awesome". When it came out I waited a while then I bought it. When I was about halfway 
 through the campaign I realized that all this game really was, was a regular FPS with nothing really 
 incredible about it. When you kill somene or I should say something you don't get the "I'm a badass" 
 feelling. The only standout part is the boss battles.
  The multiplayer doesn't have nearly enough players that want to play, the framerate will drop a 
 lot, and the weapons aren't that creative.
  Overall I find this game is nothing more then a standard FPS that should have had more than it 
 really did. I really thought that this game was going to rock but it didn't and that's why it's 
 very dissapointing in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  The Good: Superb audio/visual presentation, decent story
  
  The Bad: Paper thin content, six hours isn't very long, lackluster multiplayer
  
  First and 
 foremost, this game has NOTHING to do with the Area 51 for PC, Xbox, and PS2 that came out four 
 years ago even though it's made by the same people. BlackSite uses the Unreal 3 engine and does 
 a pretty damn good job with it. Everything looks superb and fantastic and you'll be visually pleased 
 the whole way. The downside to this is there is massive slowdown during large firefights which 
 can really bite. The game has you playing Cpt. Pierce who is an Army Marine trying to fight off 
 an invasion of infected government experiments. Through the game you have only four maybe five 
 weapons, a couple vehicle segments (think Gears of War) , and a couple of helicopter/turret segments... that's 
 it. While the game isn't boring thanks to it's six hour length, the content is paper thin. The 
 story is rushed and it feels like the developers just rushed this game out way too early. The online 
 multiplayer isn't very fun thanks to the few weapons you have. There are also only maybe six different 
 enemy types through the whole game as well. This game is a great weekend rental but not worth the 
 $60 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nieldy-Fx
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  At first i hated the game i was only playing it for the achievements but then it started to grow 
 on me and i began to like it more and more. I thought the graphics are pretty good and i thought 
 the campaign was quite fun and a good length. I quite liked the multiplayer (probably only because 
 i was good!) and i thought ctf and deathmatch was fun. But it did take a while to start games because 
 not many people played it and in most matches there were only 4 players in them. There also wasn't 
 a wide range of weapons and i thought the characters were dull and boring. The game is also very 
 glichy and the achievements were too. The way you use your teammates on campaign was rubbish and 
 some of missions were too. After i got all the achievements on the game i did not play it no more 
 and i sold it. Overall i think this game is above average but is no where near the best game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fALConxxii
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  A few days ago, i went to blockbuster looking for good games. BlackSite is anything but that... 
 Midway was promising a 'simple' squad tactic system. Just press RB several times until it works 
 and your squad attacks, opens doors, and moves. Why send your squad to open a door when you could 
 do it yourself. The story throws a few heartracing moments, but really just messed up. The game 
 didnt seem to have a beta test because its easy to fall through levels and weapons FLOAT IN MIDAIR!!! 
 The guns are crappy and barely hit the target. The starting machine gun is a total ripoff of Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern warfare. The sniper rifle's aim is also crappy, and if you dont hold down the 
 left trigger all the way or it gets mixed up with the aim from the other weapons. One weapon shoots 
 buoncing ball projectiles (What The?!?!) And i hope you are good at killing things because half 
 the time your squad is missing or standing there. I was expecting more out of Midway. So in conclusion, 
 just dont try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grognard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Blacksite is a by-the-numbers FPS which hints at greater potential, but is mired by numerous technical 
 flaws and scaled back ambitions. The rudimentary squad controls hint at the more elaborate initial 
 plans for this game, which had to be scaled back due to development problems.
  The game mechanics are solid enough but the flow of the game is predictable and uninspired. The 
 story is cliched and makes awkward attempts to offer political commentary at odd times. The quality 
 of graphics and sound vary drastically throughout and bloom lighting is overused to an annoying 
 degree. Multiplayer is an afterthought and doesn't offer anything other, far better shooters with 
 more robust features and communities already provide.
  Not a bad game for a rental or if you can wait to get it in the discount bin, but certainly not 
 worth full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  BlackSite: Area 51 is fun until you beat it one time, which takes about 4 hours. It was a terribily 
 dissapointing game, the campain is short, the story is interesting but short, the game is full 
 of glitches and it freezes often, gameplay, well, it would actually be good without the glitches 
 and the fact that it's only 4 hours of gameplay. As far as multiplayer, those without XBOX LIVE 
 will be discouraged because there is no split-screen, only online and you can connect two 360's 
 together and play. And I am one of those who don't have LIVE, but even if I did, multiplayer still 
 wouldn't be much more fun than the single player.
  If you want my opinion, do not buy this game, if you have nothing to do and you've beaten all your 
 games, and you need to play and FPS, NOW, before you go through a withdrawl, rent it, and then 
 move one.
  But it would be best just to stay away. You'll probably play it for a month tops before moving 
 on, for me, it was a couple weeks.
  Stay away from this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  as a FPS it is good with a sharp design and huge world; but after half an hour you recognize that 
 you are alone with too many smart and clever foes; your friends are so smart but with themselve, not 
 with you;
  GAMEPLAY: is so good, everything is just in right place and you find safe places to imune yourself 
 from shots; gun play so well, grenades act good and the heavy guns smoke foes up; car's control is 
 good and smooth; aiming is so easy; when you want and what you want you can do in right time; but 
 enemies never flees;
  GRAPHIC: is sharp but not in close views; you can not find many bugs on it; characters are design 
 so good; cars models are so real and guns are like real ones; choper's models are so great; world 
 is so real  model is so great; but when you focus 
 on little things like the wind effect, gun's effects
  or the breaking of the glasses you can find them ugly;
  AI: it is so good for foes and good for 
 your friends; if you do not command your friend, they act so better and fight seriously, but when 
 you command them, they act like an amateure; foes fight so good, suddenly they are showed up behind 
 you and then you are dead; they use grenades so good too and ontime; huge one are a little fool; you 
 can kill them easly;
  finaly you can find this game so good;
  GRAPHIC:9
  AI:7
  GAMEPLAY:8
  REPLAY VALUE:5
  ONLINE MODES:6
  GAME SCORE:8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargammerzs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up the game I had already read reviews on how it was very glitchy and short. Well 
 I got it and as of right now ( I have finished the game) I had no experiences of glitches or technical 
 difficulties at ALL. Maybe I missed something but it was so good I just couldn't put the controller 
 down. The graphics are so out of this world. You can see every rain drop hit your gun and every 
 miniscule rain drop come out of the splash. The lighting and shading are superb. The character 
 graphics ( including enemies) are amazing!!! There are a good number of guns and wepons to 
  find throughout the game while there is a constant fear of being attacked by a gigantic alien (or 
 mutated living thing, I'll try not to give the story away) . The constant action keeps you on the 
 edge of your seat. There are a number of dark levels also to add to that suspense. There is a wide 
 variety to enemies: tiny to 50 story high, skinny to oversized, human to alien (mutated things) . 
 The story is always keeping you thinking and entertained. In the game you get to command a squad 
 of up to around 4, I think, to just being by yourself. In gameplay you can be in a vehicle's turret 
 or driver seat, air and ground. You can always count there to be a challenge at the end of each 
 level (depending on difficulty level) . Your health regenerates after a short period of time and 
 your squad members die after a few knockouts. The multiplayer aspect of this game is fair. You 
 can definitly find a game on live ( there's usually atleast 3 to 4 games going on at one time) . 
 If you get a big enough group then the multiplayer games can be very fun. Even with only 5 people 
 it's still pretty fun. Overall, this game is highly underappreciated and I definetly think if you 
 are looking for a good story based fps which will only take 10 hours max ( took me about 6) and 
 some underpopulated multiplayer gaming (if your looking for a hardcore muliplayer game, this isnt 
 it) get THIS game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quader_ac400
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  +Fun gameplay
  +Good Story
  +Some funny Parts in the story
  +Cool Creative Monsters
  +Some weapons are cool
  +Some cool bosses
  -Not very many weapons
  -Problems with graphics
 
  -Load times are long
  -A. I isnt great
  
  
  Blacksite Area 51 is a fun shooter with a solid story. Some cool enemies that look sweet. The weapons 
 are pretty cool but there is only 6 different weapons to use. There are 3-4 differrent bosses that 
 you run into a couple times in the story. The graphics look good at first but change to very medicore. 
 Loading screens are long. The A. I isnt the smartest running into your fire and grenades every chance 
 they get. This game would of been much better if Midway would of took an extra few months to put 
 a coat of polish on it. But if your looking for a good game to rent this is your game.
  
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MillenniumSword
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  In another shooter with a plot filched from the big book of video game cliches, BlackSite: Area 
 51 sees you heading up a crack squad of Military types you play as Aeron pierce and u lead your 
 team upon a govermeant plot to breed super soldiers useing a mysterious alien artifact not that 
 it's awful. This addition to the xbox 360's already bulging library of shooter titles makes for 
 a sold single-player adventure complete with some imperssively cinematic set pieces. The gameplay 
 feels tight, the scenery is gorgeous and the developers have had a stab at adding something a little 
 different. but despite its expensive environments the campaign is horrbly linear . More disappointing 
 still is the much touted squad command ability that adds little of substance to the gameplay . 
 Directing your team by laying markers with the right bumper instructs them in battle or has them 
 laying charges to open doors. Essentilly, your band of wise cracking tough guys need to be directed 
 to do what squads in other do automatically. Frankly id rather be kicking doors down myself. BlackSite 
 is diverting while it lasts but following the likes of call of duty 4 and BioShock leaves it feeling 
 like a step backwards with ideas as tired as its hackneyed storyline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2153
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  I believe that blacksite deserves more than 6.5. Why because yes it might be a normal shooter with 
 nothing special but it is a very good normal shooter the levels are fun and though i havent completed 
 quiet yet it seems to be a resonably sized game. the weapons are great some of them are like some 
 of the weapons you would get from and unreal tornament game.
  The multiplayer i think is the best thing about this game it is a cross between quake 4 and halo 
 3 its fast but not too fast. the maps are good however vehicles would of been nice on some of the 
 maps.
  The one thing that lets it down is possible the storyline and the hard difficulty level which seems 
 too easy! And too be honest there are not too many ways to have a storyline which includes aliens 
 on earth so i think they did pretty well. The only poor weapon is the sniper to begin with because 
 it either under or over scopes when on either of the 2 magnification levels but you get used to 
 it.
  I would recomend this game to anyone who likes a good fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  An undone game with a good looking graphics
  Well actually this year was a fantastic year for FPS fans. Yeh maybe they have become a little 
 tired of this gener . but all of those game were not quite successful . one of those games is Black 
 site area 51 . well maybe it is unreal engine fault . why ? because creating a good looking and 
 charming game by this engine is not really hard . but as all of you know graphics without good 
 Game play elements and also having poor AI is not plausible for this generation when there is HALO 
 3 or Call of Duty 4 or Half life out there . and I think releasing Black site when there are lots 
 of monster available is quite foolish .
  Black site is not a really good game . the only good feature in this game is graphics and no more 
 . the conversations are not good really as well as voice acting. The story is really twisted that 
 you can not understand it . Genetic experiments or aliens invade or Iraq war . well it is not a 
 clear story . story in FPS shooter is not as Important as 
  Game play.
  The game at least had needed 2 or more month of developing . the game is full of bugs and hitches 
 and so on .
  The game is really frustrating in loading time . it is really long for a next generation game . 
 this is not the only problem it is even worst when you understand that each time you would die 
 you must wait for a long time so the game stop loading . 
  oh it ,s frustrating .
  One advise : play on the easiest difficulty .
  Unlike the creators belief the AI is really poor 
 . for example when you are driving a vehicle and your squad team is behind the gun do not expect 
 from him to have a good shot . you got to drive around the target again and again and pray the 
 lord until AI kill its enemy by chance . 
  another friendly advise : do not buy the game rent it .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  i enjoyed this game allot i feel that this game can compete with COD4 and halo3 but there are certain 
 issues with the game that holds it back that makes it feel like a half finished game the game's 
 storyline is very mysterious and will make you play to find out wtf is going on the graphics are 
 really nice and the physics system on the game is great and it has a wonderful destroyable environment 
 if you see it in the game there is a good chance that it can be destroyed there are some interesting 
 creatures to shoot at and in one level sneaking through American backyards gives the game and eerie 
 and cool atmosphere also the voice acting is great and the dialog actually made me laugh (something 
 i rarely do with any game) but now the problems with the game: 
  
  the 1st problem i had was that once you kill some1 their body is fully interactive (think half-life2) 
 but once you turn your back they disappear and they are never seen again another thing is when 
 they die their guns don't act like normal guns they are solid and in place and won't move even 
 if they are in mid-air they wont fall it will stay there
  
  another problem is there is no sprint button in the game your character moves at a decent pace 
 BUT if you are getting shot at you are moving too slow to dodge the attacks 
  
  you also will never open doors you team mates do it which bothers me because you have to baby sit 
 them because if they get lost (they can't die but get knocked out) i can't open the door also you 
 have a squad command where you tell them where to go but the problem is your team mates go to the 
 location you mark but only for 20 seconds and they run all over the place 
  
  the last problem i had was the check point system it is either too many checkpoints are not enough 
 and i have to do the same thing over and over again also when you die the load times are in my 
 opinion wayy to long just to get to a checkpoint but if you can ignore all of this there is an 
 enjoyable game here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geist9049
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  insane mutated soldier, cyborgs, and giant alien worms. the town of Rachel has it all in black 
 site. but its not worth sending a postcard home to the family about it. black site also has bugs, 
 graphic glitches and suicidal enemies. none of which helps any replay value. i did think the story 
 line was quite good but there seemed to be holes here and there in the plot. the weapons were pretty 
 basic and unimaginative and honestly i ignored everything but the sniper rifle and missile launcher. 
 all you need for that entire game is those two and the assault rifle your given at the start of 
 every chapter. the aliens are interesting but don't do much to avoid being hit. they stand and 
 fire for the most part and even when running from a grenade. it almost always kills them. i'm not 
 a real solid FPS player. more of a spray and pray style and i didn't have any problems whatsoever 
 taking out the baddies here. if you have a rainy day with nothing to do it might be worth renting. 
 or maybe for the multi player if your tired of much better shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I just beat this game today and I got it for christmas. This is a very good game in my opinion 
 and I don't know why it got rated so low. The graphics are pretty good and the details on the enemies (especiallty 
 the bigger ones) are well done. The sound is okay, not the best but its not bad. The guns actually 
 sound like guns and the enemies talking sounds not bad. They game doesnt take that long to get 
 through, but while you are playing through it, it's really fun. A lot of the levels are differenr 
 and the environments look cool. My favorite thing in this game is the fire brute and the sport 
 towers. They are just these HUGE things that you have to shoot certain spots on their body with 
 the rocket launcher. They are very cool and fun to fight. This game can get hard if you play it 
 on hard, so its a bit of a challenge. Not many people at all play this game on live, I think it's 
 fun but I guess the majority of you dont, luckily a few of the achievements can be done in 1v1 
 player matched with friends, and the other ranked ones are very easy to obtain. Overall I would 
 recommend this game to FPS fans. I was very skeptical about getting it because of the reviews, 
 but I was not disappointed and hopefully you won't be either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geosportsguy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game and has a really compelling story line. it is great to play online and has 
 great graphics. its fun to play i usually cant put down the controller to go eat dinner. I love 
 the story im at one of the most compelling part in the story that all u people who love shooters 
 and great storys. it has a really fun single player but it is so good u won't want to play online 
 which is one of the games best parts. over all it is a very fun and entertaining. this is really 
 fun and exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentluap
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Well as I had some of my Christmas money left I went out a looked for a game. I came across this 
 Blacksite in the sale in GAME. As I enjoyed the demo I thought it would be worth playing.
  
  The game starts off in Iraq with you fighting terrorist but soon you find out there's something 
 different when venturing into a bunker. After your first sighting of the mutated enemy it gets 
 you ready for a great gaming experience, but this really doesn't happen. The story is a bit and 
 piece storyline that doesn't really grab your attention as much as you expect it to. The enemies 
 also come in waves and you always know where the next wave is coming from. The only thing that 
 can catch you by suprise is the little exploding bugs but these are also easy to eliminate before 
 they get to you.
  
  The graphics in Blacksite are great and visually the game offers a lot. The character models, the 
 surroundings, the enemy design and everything is great. The guns look great and everything has 
 plenty of detail and the environments are destrucable which adds a lot to the visual side of combat. 
 But then the graphics also cause big problems for the game as there is to many glitches that ruin 
 the look of the game. Theres to many to list to be honest, but the main offenders are parts of 
 the environments go missing like doors, the other noticalbe one is that your guns go through the 
 environments so if you crouch behind cover your gun will go through it and considering this game 
 uses a lot of the cover system for healing you see it to many times.
  
  The sound on Blacksite is great and adds a lot to the game. The gun fire sounds realistic. The 
 enemy groans and moans are clear. The voice acting is good and a strong point for the game. But 
 unfortunatly the glitches dont stop at the graphics but also cross over onto the sound. There's 
 plent of times the the sound jumps and also starts on the loading screen and then will start from 
 the begining again once the loading screen has done.
  
  The gameplay on Blacksite gets repetative as there is not a large range on weapons on offer so 
 every fight just seems the same. The only difference is that you fight different types of enemies, 
 but its not enough to shake the repetative feel.
  
  The other bad thing about the game is that it has a short story line is not worth playing more 
 than once, so it's not a game that you'll want to go back to. The lifespan of the game is also 
 shortened by the lack of a decent multiplayer. It's hard to find a game thats actually full and 
 then when you do get in the room the insane lag makes it short lived.
  
  Overall the game is an intresting idea but it's spoilt by a short story mode that is full of glitches 
 and a broken multiplayer experience. So if you want to play this game I'd advise renting it as 
 you'll beat it in under 10 hours easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was actually very entertaining. I thought it was one of the best games i played on the 
 360 this year. The story was very interesting and kept you entertained on whats gonna happen next. 
 There were shocking and surprising moments in the game too. The gameplay was very fun. I loved 
 the assualt rifle. That was the gun i used the most. I liked how the health system was built. The 
 characters were very well detailed and each character had a different personality. I liked that. 
 The bosses were fun to kill. Lets get to the story. It's about a millitary team that go to Iraq 
 to find a hidden nuclear weapon. Instead they find something something more deadly: the birth of 
 creatures called the Xeno. There is also another millitary unit which are on the bad side and trying 
 to get inside Area 51 and unleash these creatures. But your team are the only ones in the way. 
 Theres the story without giving away spoilers which the rest of the story has. Alongside that, 
 there's always the bad news, I found a couple of glitches and slight pauses which got frustating 
 to beat the level. A couple of times, i had to restart from the checkpoint because of the damn 
 glitches. There were slight pauses as well which really didn't bother but it led to a glitch. I 
 think you FPS fans with a 360 or PS3 should go check this game out. Really entertaing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reckeweg
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Well here we are. Blacksite Area 51. It's a decent enough game as far as shooters go. It's got 
 solid gameplay mechanics. If you are remotely familiar with X Box shooters then you'll be shooting, 
 reloading and pretty much fragging aliens in no time. For me this isn't where the game falls short. 
 The gameplay and graphics of the game are fine. They're not extraordinary at all, but for me they 
 don't need to be, hell I still enjoy Halo 1 and those graphics are archaic by todays standards. 
 
  
  For me the game falls short in two important areas as far as sci-fi shooter go. Number one the 
 story was dumb. I just leave it at that to avoid spoilers. If you are wanting a shooter with a 
 cool story look elsewhere for it. Also I was never able to definitively ascertain if this was a 
 sequel to the Xbox Area 51 or not. Based on the story from this game I'm going to say no. They 
 both have the location Area 51 in them, after that they are nothing alike. 
  
  Secondly there was a very real shortage on weapon vareity. In a sci-fi shooter setting that is 
 a huge NO NO. You will end the game with the very same gun you start with, there is no need to 
 ever switch weapons except for a couple of scripted events. 
  
  SO in the end this game was nothing special, I played and it was fun wile I was playing. Its definitely 
 worth a rent but not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nudie_Magazine
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo, I wasn't expecting the revolution to be delivered by this game. I was expecting 
 an average shooter experience, and at it's best, most polished moments, it does deliver on those 
 expectations. Too bad those moments rarely arise and are drowned in the sea of crap. The basic 
 frame for a good FPS is there but it's almost like the developers got it half done and realized, 
 "OH CRAP!!!! We spent the rest of the money on ice cream! oh well it's done enough." The campaign 
 is easy, boring, and thankfully short. As for the story.... well, it's.... er..... I have no idea. 
 It makes no sense when you really think about it, and the characters are... well, one dimensional. 
 I'm not asking for Shakespear in my FPS', but I would like a cohesive narrative that gives context 
 to what your doing. Perhaps the worst part of the story is the game's inability to decide on a 
 tone, sometimes it gets all serious and wants you to care about whatevers going on, but too often 
 something rediculous happens to try and break the "tension" but instead fails miserable. One example 
 that comes to mind is the first on rails shooter section, a few seconds after getting on the gun 
 the driver steps out to take a leak. Graphically, the game is a mixed bag. Some character models 
 and enviroments look pretty good, but a lot of areas are untextured and look very rough. As for 
 audio, it was not too good. Overall, this game is a disappointment and just doesn't feel finished. 
 There were a few moments where I did have some genuine fun but those are far outnumbered by the 
 boring and tedious moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyzwain
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Blacksite: Area 51 seems fairly similiar to other games of humans versus aliens, where you take 
 control of the human side, defeat the aliens, save the day, and everything is rosy. This is true 
 in Blacksite, but makes us feel like we are there.
  
  The positives of the game include the vibrant environments. At one stage your in Iraq, then into 
 desert in the USA, and also night-time in the rain. Its the minute details that bring this game 
 alive, and make you feel part of it.
  
  The story begins in Iraq, in search of chemical weapons. Simple story-line, but it evolves into 
 something far worse, with the discovery of alien/mutant creatures, it leads to an attack on US 
 soil. This story-line makes the game interesting, and certainly kept the game alive.
  
  The gameplay itself is nice, but it is far too similiar to other FPS games. Such games as Resistance: 
 Fall of Man feature similiar controls and weaponry as Blacksite, and yes, we've seen it all before. 
 There is no real advance in gameplay, with slight team-tactics by commanding 2-3 comrades who open 
 doors for you, it has a feel of Gears of War. So you could theoretically call this game a hybrid 
 of Resistance: Fall of Man and Gears of War. A little bit of each created Blacksite.
  
  The graphics are superb. You can tell that there was a lot of time focused on them, and in this 
 review the game was seen in HD format. Stunning with great looking AI and scenery, however a minor 
 complaint is that when driving on the road (one of the early missions) , the road lines fade in 
 as they get closer, which became highly annoying.
  
  This example brings along a failure of Blacksite, the bugs. There were a few bugs in the game, 
 the most notorious being the lines (but now that I've considered it, it might be Midway trying 
 to be TOO graphically impressive) , and a glitch I encountered where a squad member sat in the car, 
 but appeared outside of it sitting down. The AI itself does not feel complete, as sometimes they 
 won't move when ordered somewhere, and come running to you after a long pause. Aside from these, 
 the sound is good, with decent commentary, voice acting and sound effects as the game progressed. 
 The only problem with the sound was that maybe there was too much chatter during the action. Such 
 as squad members repeating the sam phrase when they see an enemy, or when reloading.
  
  Blacksite has the feeling of being rushed, and certainly feels like it could do with a thorough 
 clean to make this game acceptable. The gameplay feels natural, but its been seen before. Everything 
 about the game points to a hollywood blockbuster, but the bugs and glitches, and the AI problems 
 mean that this game does not deliver the whole package. It is an enjoyable game, and certainly 
 has its moments - but I would suggest renting this first, as opinion on this game is very divided. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docprufessuh
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of first person shooters so when I got this game I was hoping for it to be a memorable 
 game but I was let down. I mean it really does nothing that we haven't seen before it's just a 
 very ordinary derivative game. Also the game doesn't put up much of a challenge the bosses don't 
 feel like much of a challenge either. But don't get me wrong the actual game play is very fun but 
 just not original.
  
  The Good
  ========
  -The graphics and the environments look really nice I mean I know their running on the unreal engine 
 3.0 so that explains a lot but it just really looks awesome
  -The game play is really fun but you'll have yourself saying didn't i play this in half life already 
 
  -There are some pretty good sound effects like the guns and aliens
  
  The Bad
  =======
  -The slow of frame rate and other little bugs are annoying they happen most especially 
 when your driving the car 
  -AI overall isn't smart your squad members throw grenades at dead bodies and shoot at doorknobs 
 so their not much of a help and they don't really listen to you when you give squad command
  -The game is mostly unoriginal
  -If your good or decent at any other fps you won't find the difficulty 
 of this game very challenging
  -Online mode has no depth whatsoever and it's frustrating trying to start a match
  -Story doesn't 
 draw you in and isn't really interesting
  
  So when I was done with this game I really felt no accomplishment but it's a good game that's fun 
 for what it tries to do that has been done too many times before. So if you're looking for a next-gen 
 experience of half-life this can be fun. But oh wait theres the orange box so sorry black site 
 , you need to be a fan of shooters to buy this game but it is mostly worth a rental it's good for 
 beginners to first person shooter because of it's lack of challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmuffyGT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The control and overall feel of the game is great but the AI is genuinely incompetent as you'll 
 see them staring blankly at walls, ignoring enemies and not being able to figure out how to get 
 to where you command them. Overall I enjoyed the game, and even tho it's a bit short, even for 
 a first person shooter, it's still as replayable as I'd like it to be. I had a lot of fun with 
 it and enjoyed the stereotypical banter. It's not going to take much time away from Halo and Gears 
 but it's worth a rental if you think you might be interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I remember popping in a disc from Official Xbox Magazine and discovering the playable demo for 
 Blacksite. It was about 3 days after I got my Xbox 360 and I was still debating my purchase, Bioshock 
 and Blue Dragon had not been released yet, and I was worried that there wouldn't be enough games 
 to justify how many games I traded just to get the system. But there it was... this wonderful follow-up 
 to one of my favorite PS2 games. I started the demo and 5 minutes later I was certain I had made 
 the right choice.
  
  Fast forward a few months... the game has been released and reviews are out. Most are saying it's 
 very short and not much more than your standard FPS. I wasn't going to let that deter me... I loved 
 the original arcade rail shooter and the PS2 follow-up, so how could this disappoint me? Dammit! 
 I hate when I'm wrong!
  
  It's not that Blacksite is a bad game... it's just not quite done. Undercooked if you will. First 
 of all, there was a huge lack of alien activity. You think Area 51, you think little grey men with 
 big black eyes and ray guns. At least that's what I envision. What I gathered from the story was 
 that there was alien technology at work, but most of the creatures you fight are genetically altered 
 humans... super-soldiers if you will. There are giant worm-like things and huge beetle bug-like 
 creatures (seemingly stolen from Dune and Starship Troopers respectively) but you never see any 
 of the steriotypical 'Greys"... and that's what I wanted to see. 
  
  Now for the really bad news: The entire game took about 6-8 hours to complete. And that seemed 
 like an eternity considering how linear and dull the story was. I would have loved to see more 
 branching paths and different options for completing objectives. And could you please make a gun 
 that's somewhat accurate??? I realize they are super-soldiers, but how many head-shots can they 
 take? I'm really not complaining about the difficulty because I did finish the entire game on the 
 medium difficulty setting without too many deaths, but the places I was having the most trouble 
 with were because headshots had almost no effect.
  
  And while I'm on the subject of "bad", did anyone do any quality control on this? I FELL THROUGH 
 THE STREET! And I don't mean that something blew up under me and I died, I was circling an enemy 
 and suddenly my character had fallen through the street into a void. I struggled to kill myself 
 so I could start the level over. And this wasn't the only glitch in the game. I watched the ceiling 
 in an elevator come down on the heads of everyone in the group, vehicles float in mid-air, and 
 several other fantastic anomolies. 
  
  It really feels like Midway rushed this one out and could have spent a little more time working 
 out the kinks. Overall, the experience was mediocre at best and the lack of a compelling story 
 and graphical hiccups really brought the score down further. I would have prefered this not bear 
 the "Area 51" name because it really doesn't fit in with the previous installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: namdor
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Very good game with a difficult but easy, has certain shortcomings which makes the game is not 
 equal to other, hopefully with some updates will fix the problem
  
  riting your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhail_tisoy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  a fairly good game with old school style gameplay it has good graphics and i had alot of fun playing 
 this game i think it deserves better than 6.5 the graphics are amazing and the characters design 
 and levels are truly amazing and the missions were fun and the aliens were fun to kill two alltho 
 theres only like 8 weapons in the game ull never get tired of using assault riffle and the multiplayer 
 is fun sadly its hard to find poeple to play online if u like old school shooters then this is 
 the game for you but i recomend renting it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKX8
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Despite its intriguing plot, interesting characters, often comical voice acting, good soundtrack, 
 exceptional weaponry, and considerably graphics BlackSite: Area 51 still feels like a rudimentary 
 PS2 game.
  
  Gameplay is really what it all comes down to in the end, in spite of the above 'pros.' For it's 
 where the 'cons' come into play that critique are taken seriously -- BSA51, though packing great 
 graphics as is expected from the 360, has sometimes inaccurate lighting, poor frame-rate, unexplained 
 explanations, and most frequently just not enough space and aiming lucidity to discern all the 
 freakishly-cool enemies.
  
  The people, especially their faces, however, are done terrifically well. ANd while the voices may 
 occassionally become repetitive and dull, the first few humorous comments from your teammates are 
 always uplifting and fun to hear.
  
  The arsenal and vehicles, as well as emplaced weapons, are impressive but not impressive enough. 
 The jerky feel of the unrealistic driving maneuevers in Humvees and SUVs are almost PSPish, and 
 while most of the armaments are imposing and effective they lack in the ability to aim efficiently.
 
  
  All-in-all, BSA51 is a good game -- and better than the first by means of difficulty and eloquency 
 yet not clarity -- but just not good enough. 
  
  3/5 & 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Blacksite area 51 is a game that win i saw the trailer a few months back i was excited for but 
 then i soon forgot so a demo came out and i played it and loved it now 7 months later i can say 
 that game was a dissapointement. 
  
  The story. Area 51 opens up 3 years ago in the iraq invasion and your squad uncovers thsi place 
 and stumble apon so weird things.... No 3 years in the future the worst has come to life those freaky 
 alien things are now roming this small town close to area 51 and its your job to rid the world 
 of them....
  
  The grpahics in black site are good the characters themselves look realy good and some level designs 
 are cool but other times things can be dolland boring and textures will often pop up as your going 
 along wich 
  you can tell that this game could have used a little bit more time to fix 
  these minor issues wich should not be happining in games lately
  
  The sound. the sound in 
 black site is decent the voicie acting is decent and the gunshots have decenents sounds. Its just 
 your tipocal game 
  
  The Campaing... The campaing in blacksite will run you in about 7-10 hours. Now the gameplay itself 
 works like your standord firstperson shooter it will have you just in all out war or it will have 
 you alot behind the cover that the game gives you. it doesn't realy differ from any other game 
 wich makes it feel like youve played it before. the driving sequensis are ok in the game and the 
 rail sequensis are actually fun in this game.....
  
  The multiplayer. i have only spent a short time with multiplayer but it does have the typical game 
 modes and a other one were one player starts out as a alien and the others as humans and when a 
 alien kills a human they become a alien and thats proabably the best multiplayer part of the game 
 ...
  
  closing statements: While black site does have realy bad technical proablems and a decent campaing 
 mulitpayer does make up for it but blacksite is one of those games that you maby should rent at 
 the most.
  The story 6.0
  The sound 6.0
  the graphics 6.5 ( would be higher but do to technical problams 
  The campaign 6.5
  the multiplyaer 
 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onep
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game is average. No flash. No innovation. I've played through the first 2 chapters and IMO 
 this game ripped off a bunch of 360 classics in a bad way.
  
  The first aliens you encounter move and sound just like the wraiths from GOW. and the second Aliens 
 you encounter explode when you shoot them... just like the wraiths in GOW. Even the landscapes 
 and textures look like they're GOW early development throw aways. The worm things that come out 
 of the ground are straight out of Lost Planet and the vehicle drives EXACTLY like the warthog in 
 Halo.
  
  Your squad is a liability half the time and the controls stray away from the standard FPS formula 
 enough to throw you off (pull the left trigger to zoom!? WTF!) .
  
  This is at best an ok rental. I rented this for $7.99 and felt mildly cheated. I can't imagine 
 paying $59.99 for this crap. The story so far is the ONLY thing holding my attention at this point. 
 Iraq is working on some sort of alien chemical warfare thats discovered when the US goes in searching 
 for WMD's and then later gets loose and a small town (Rachael, AZ) gets contaminated with alien 
 human hybrids? Thats the ONLY redeeming quality. This game should have come out 4-5 years ago on 
 the original xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafan255
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I only recommend buying this game if you plan to play benny hill music in the background while 
 experiencing the constant glitches in the game, and watching your dumb as bricks squad get totally 
 murdered buy the rookie ai, but stand up unharmed after a few seconds. WTH?
  
  Graphics are pretty nice though the odd time they aren't glitched up.
  
  So yeah, do not buy 
 this game, there are so many better video games out there this holiday season. Rent it or buy it 
 used maybe, but do not buy it, and please remove it from your Xmas list. Unless you like games 
 that are about 60% complete I just do not see the point.
  
  Oh and JEFF GERSTMANN ROCKS! I HATE YOU GAMESPOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verevolf
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  For those interested in getting this game, STOP! Don't waste your money. After watching the trailers 
 on TV and this site, I decided to purchase this game. BIG mistake. For all of the hype, this game 
 comes with lots of bugs, bugs that should have been corrected prior to shipment. The game hangs 
 up when you hit checkpoints. While driving the hummers in different levels, I have come across 
 instances where the vehicle goes airborne and stays that way. When I was heading towards the dome 
 in Area 51, the vehicle stopped, then started going sideways. I was able to get out of the vehicle 
 and walk around, but could not access any of the remaining hummers till I rebooted the system. 
 The AI for the squad is in dire need of enhancement, and the enemy is adequate only in expert mode 
 (for a few levels only) . 
  
  Game play took about 14 hours, unfortunately, 4 of that was spent on getting around the bugs in 
 the game. Midway should have spent the money they used on advertising on making this game better 
 and fixing the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  This was at one time the highly anticipated first-person shooter that featured what looked like 
 a graphical power house along side a battle at a gas station that almost looked flawless. Now that 
 the game is realesed the truth shows.
  The game revoles around the basic mechanics of a first-person shooter, shoot, duck for cover, shoot. 
 It's not really innovative in any way even with the one control squad commands. Well, the game 
 is mainly about getting rid of infected humans and preventing them from spreading out of Nevada, 
 there are no actual aliens in the game. Without really giving anything away you have to trek across 
 Nevada to stop the mastermind while you fight through hordes and hordes of infected. As I said 
 earlier the game dosn't really bring anything innovative to the table in terms of gameplay, but 
 in my opinion it brings something new to the table in terms of storytelling. 
  What I mean by that is the feel that these infected are in your "backyard". When you actually are 
 going through a trailer park, that lookes pretty good in graphics terms, and they trough a bunch 
 of enemies against you in the trailer park it feels like something new and refreashing. Or, when 
 your in the gas staion, yes there has been gas sation in other games, but this one feels real, 
 like the ice cream machine and the shelves and icee machines, it really comes toghter. Another 
 example would be when you are traveling in and out of a neighborhood, althogh the garage isn't 
 detailed, when the fathead or giant worm thing jumps out of someones house it feels like this hasn't 
 been down before.
  I do agree that the game did need some more detailing and time to get it polihed, but overall the 
 game was good not bad and not great. It's more your average first-person shooter. Although it's 
 not on par with Halo 3 or COD4 it is it's own game and it does it's own thing. In the future when 
 they make a new instalment, which they probley will, they will learn that next-ge is unforgiving. 
 Unlike the orginal Area 51, which I played and loved, they didn't need suped up graphics just fun 
 gameplay. Now, next -gen wants both which if you think about it is a very thin line, some games 
 just seem to break that line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game seemed at first that it would appeal to me, just after watching the Preview and the ad 
 in the xbox magazines mostly because I like aliens, and army. But this game... wasn't... anything 
 on how it looked. From level one I knew It would suck. The graphics quite pixilized if you get 
 close to anything and the weapons are just half a dozen! No literally there are only 6 guns. The 
 enemies are boring and badly drawn. And finally your squad does nothing for you. They don't kill 
 anything practicly and you can't even get them to drive or anything you always have to drive the 
 cars. The story isn't even good! Some random alien dna mixed with soldiers making there skin turn 
 gray and they umm... grew spikes out of their armour. Just a bad game overall. Although it will 
 give you something to play for an hour and a half that's practicly it. Don't waste money on even 
 renting it unless you really want GS or something to shoot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themonkeyworks
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3 tear this dated and clumsy attempt at a game in half. So many glitches 
 it made me tear up because all i wanted to do was finish the bloody thing and move on...
  
  Rare pieces of beauty and otherwise so so so outdated graphics it might as well have been on ps2...
 
  
  The multiplayer is old school style, with uninspired maps, powerups and a clunky menu screen...
 
  
  I cant even find bad words for this game it just seriously was that bad, I sat there watching the 
 credits thinking about how much of their lives these coders, testers, etc had wasted..
  
  Most xbox live arcade games would destroy this game...
  
  POC... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southernzombie
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Definitely was not the most terrible game ever, but a true FPS fan would have money better spent 
 on Halo 3 of COD 4 (both of which are AMAZING) . Not too much to say about it really. The story 
 line is pretty much what you'd expect from Area 51...... Aliens. But worth giving a shot so definitely 
 rent it first. So all in all if you're only going to buy one game this holiday season there are 
 plenty of better choices...... may i suggest: Assassin's Creed (10 out of 10 in my book) COD 4 (10 
 out of 10) Halo 3 (10 out of 10) NFS: PS ( 7 out of 10) Rock Band ( 9 out of 10) of GH III (9 out 
 of 10) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, you need just an average game to appreciate the extrodinary such as Halo 3 or Call of 
 Duty 4. That is exactly what Blacksite: Area 51 does.
  
  On the positive side: although it is shallow, its has some mildly entertaining action. And your 
 teamates are either a very good asset or they will say out of your way.
  
  On the negative side: Its not cool when you can guess the end of the video game by the end of the 
 first chapter
  
  Verdict: The game has both its good points and its bad points (and don't even get me started about 
 multiplayer) . Rent before you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  BlackSite Area 51 was a game that prove why MIDWAY its called MID_WAY. 
  when I first played the demo I was eager to buy the complete game but lets not get into details 
 how I was rip-off. This game its just like clive barker jericho, another holyday let down. This 
 game In my opinion does not even deserver to be a rental. Bad control, crapy graphics an a story 
 that puts you to sleep. This game is the winner in the crapy game choice games awards. This game 
 its so bad that I dont want to talk about it anymore. so its your choice ypou have been warned.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyNeat
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  So much for the obviously controlled con job attempt to sell this waste of incompetent programming 
 that was Black Site's Gamespot game preview. The game's makers tried to use a tired concept taking 
 out anything that could have been a buying factor for the poor soul who accidentally thought for 
 a second this mess was worth buying by taking out online co-op. In the end that was a stroke of 
 luck for those people as the game managed to waste all it's funds are sly marketing and the purchase 
 of the over hyped engine that is Unreal. Once people come out of the closet and realize Unreal 
 makes a pretty (if you call that obvious PC look pretty) looking setting that's actually a mess 
 of a programmed game.
  
  Playing the game, one comes to find that the visuals are all show and no substance and guns sound 
 and look as they should or do but hit targets as if the player is simply taking away hit points 
 with no sense of actually hitting most enemy targets. Enemies suddenly know where you are the second 
 you fire regardless of how close your AI buddies are in relation to them. The hardest mode setting 
 should have been titled CHEAP. Challenge is not in mastering some quick hand eye coordination, 
 but actually a test of wills between your patience and this incompetent game's random programming. 
 Strategy is nothing more than quickly useless simple button commands that never play out logically 
 and actual hinder the point of the game to raise and maintain a high level of moral amongst your 
 mentally retarded AI buddies causing or rather creating another unwarranted challenge in that they 
 programming allows for some amazingly bad AI actions. 
  
  Online shouldn't even be mentioned for far too many insulting reasons. Achievements for games like 
 these are nothing more that badges of honor amongst gamers who know how difficult it is to get 
 such things not because of how well designed and intended challenges they are but of how challenging 
 the game maker's lack of skill and thought into the product at hand was.
  
  With games that have better well structured concepts (you name it considering) and multiplayer 
 (I'll name it: Call of Duty 4) out there, this game actually had me wishing for days when consoles 
 were offline and games were two dimensional or almost 3 dimensional. Days of playing Contra on 
 NES and SNES are flashing back to save me from the Black Site trauma I have endured. 
  
  In the end if you must, RENT this mess and never say someone didn't warn you against the time you 
 will lose to this mess, err game. 
  
  Detailed Rating:
  
  Score = Some actual cool creature designs & it actually got made.
  Difficulty = Only because 
 of how bad it all works. Could also be too easy.
  Time spent playing: Shorter than it felt.
  Classification: Because Garbage or Insulting were 
 not options.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whorida002000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Now I am just someone who plays 3 to 5 games a year, but for me it was not that bad. No, it is 
 not Halo 3, and hell nah it is not Gears of War. But the game is just that, a game. It is pretty 
 damn fun too. There were some problems like load time and a couple got caught in the wall a couple 
 of times, (which has happened to me in every last game I have played recently) , but the action 
 was good. It was kinda short. Could have had a few more bosses.
  
  Don't recommend buying it brand new, (I didn't) , it was worth the price used. The negatives I ran 
 into I already listed. The positives are there was some good combat, the voice acting was right 
 up there with the best of the best. The dude's sounded real believable. Other than that, the story 
 was ok, the graphics were average, and it is not something I would play over and over, like Halo, 
 or Gears of War. One time, and done. It is much like some older versions of modern games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trippyskullz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  It takes alot nowadays for a game in the first person shooter genre to do anything truly innovative. 
 That being said I do believe Blacksite has plenty of merits.
  
  The game is entertaining to play, with simple controls and sharp graphics. a decent variety of 
 enemies although once youve seen one of a certain foe the others are just clones. Its quite short 
 as well, if the gameplay could have kept pace for another 4 hours or so this woudve been a fine 
 single player campaign indeed.
  
  Blacksite is worth a buy if you love FPS game but only a rental if you expect more then graphics 
 and 'been there done that' mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Midway, why do you continue to release games this unpolished?
  First thing with the game, to put it simply... it's a buggy mess. During the 4 hrs i played i experienced 
 the following:
  Got stuck in wall, had to restart.
  Killing enemies leave their weapons floating in mid air.
  Lots of pop up. Enemies would appear 
 out of thin air.
  Saw enemies fall through the floor.
  Game crashed 8 times, just froze, had to restart.
  Constant freezing then loading of new areas 
 before game would continue.
  
  Seriously, with all these bugs present, it just ruins the experience. The game could've been decent, but 
 even the gameplay feels shallow.
  
  The game uses the Unreal 3 engine, but it still somehow doesn't look as good as say "MoH: Airborne" 
 or "Gears of War"
  
  Save your money, this game is over priced and not worth the time. I even have a hard time recommending 
 a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyhale
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to give you another boring review for this game as much as Midway's entire year of 
 crappy releases. Remember, this game is from the same makers of "Hour of Victory". Not only is 
 the WW II genre just flooded, but then to put out another one and it suck... Blacksite Area 51 looks 
 to have some of the same problems, but in their defense not quite as bad. Midway has been such 
 a great company over the years, but the next gen isn't treating them well. I will not buy another 
 Midway product unless I rent it first and back it up with some good reviews (I haven't been buying 
 their shooters anyway) . The one thing I can say 'I'm glad that I finished it and can take it back 
 to the store 2 days early" Don't bother, this game isn't even as good as something in 2002. It 
 just plain sucks and is boring to boot. I got stuck 3 times the first 2 hours I was playing the 
 game. Why could a tester not have figured this out. I hope Midway made enough off Deadrising because 
 there hasn't been another descent title from them since and I wasn't that big of a fan of deadrising. 
 Gears of War still seems to set the bar for me as the most fun in the FPS genre. Timeshift was 
 way better than this and they give it terrible reviews. Peace and haping gaming during the holiday 
 break 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEN_GLOBAL17
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is not the best but still fun.
  
  The good.
  Campaign is ok has some glitches. ( in Rachel NV there is this door that you go through to finish 
 the section but it did not load so i was walking around for 10-20 min then just quit.) after i 
 loaded the game I went through that same door and it loaded.
  
  Xbox live is fun but not alot of people play. so if you like waiting a good 30 min then you will 
 be just fine.
  
  The bad.
  
  Where is my weapon selection ( you only get 6, and one is a Anti tank launcher)
  
  in Campaign 
 you dont see the plasma rifle very often. ( which is more like a plasma Rocket )
  
  on xbox live you start out with a pistol really stupid and even worst if you dont know where the 
 weapons are.
  
  The melee Does not work right if touching the person you gun moves it and it does not work.
  
 
  
  This game is fun to me. but i would say play it before you fork up 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellomotto1
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I felt when playing Area 51 that the blood and gore, and the SCARE factor really made it into the 
 game it was. Blacksite, literally throws the blood and the gore out, and also the SCARE factor. 
 No zombies, just some UT enemy copy. The storyline lacks what made the first one better. Anyways, 
 im tired, 'cuz its late where i leave, but if you really wanna play this game, please dont buy 
 it, rent it. Also, I just want to remind you that the storyline is nothing like Area 51's story. 
 It has no substance and no backbone, making it an overall failure. Please, and i repeat myself, 
 DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!
  
  Thanks for reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Blacksite has so many flaws and unfortunately just few strong points !! let's get the good stuff 
 out of the 
  way first;
  
  blacksite has some few strong moments when you're fighting against giant worms or robotic Aliens. 
 it also has some surpisingly good graphics touches every now and then and the story is quite intriguing 
 too. that's about everything to be admired in this game.
  
  now the bad stuff:
  
  the games uses Unreal engine 3, which is great (or so it would seem) , but with some slouch animations 
 and twisted textures as well as 
  how horrible the frame rate can get, I can hardly admire the game's graphic quality. it is just 
 so sad to see the Engine that made games like Rainbow six and gears of war so damn terrific hits, 
 falling into the hands of some pathetic rendering and implementation. the frame rate drops quite 
 often and when it's steady you still feel like things are sloppy and laggy. the animations are 
 lame and there are so many glitches and bugs in the game like you'll always notice weapons flying 
 in mid-air and other embarassing textures. in the end, the game is not any where near to be good 
 looking.
  
  the game play is fun for what it is, but it has so many flaws that plagues any amout of fun you 
 can get out of blacksite. the AI is stupid, your squad-mates have nothing to do but die on you 
 all the time and to top it off, the frame rate issues + the bugs makes it almost impossible to 
 enjoy this game. and yeah, the moral system they claimed to have in this game is absolutely not 
 there; why? 
  
  simply because it doesn't affect how the game is played or felt in anyway, in fact I hardly notice 
 anything that changes my squad-mates attitudes in the battlefield because, first they are too dumb
 
  and second because they don't seem to be affected by the so-claimed moral system at all.
  
  the weapons feel powerless especially when it takes 3 clips of machingun to finish off a foe, 
 and the weapons are even unbalanced because I could kill a foe using just a few rounds of a pistol, 
 while a whole clip of 
  my machingun did not make him even stumble, so pathetic!!
  
  the sound system and all feel kind of sluggish and buggy quite often, but hopefully you still can 
 enjoy the gunfire and some other
  sound effects. 
  
  all in all, I would not recommend this game to anyone except for gamers who really really love 
 FPS games and would not bother all the flaws I already mentioned. because, after all the game has 
 some good moments, even if they are very few and far between. too bad this game could not make 
 it out without some serious issues that may ruin the whole experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacefan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  My rating for replayability: zero!
  
  First, Midway could have had a gold mine here with the potential creatures created from the ship 
 fragment. The biomechanical tall creature was interesting, but I never saw the thing up close! 
 For crying out loud I want to be scared-I want to see the damn thing up close! Second, most of 
 the game was spent driving around the countryside of Nevada in a Humvee (or something) . Third, 
 the game was just plain boring because I was driving around Nevada all the time! Fourth, the endless 
 droning about the politicians running the Iraq war when the military should just got old really 
 fast. If you have a political bone to pick, please don't do it in a game. If you want to deal with 
 social issues, fine, but don't bring politics into a game -- it's just a bad idea. Fifth, once again 
 the DoD is blamed for hideous experimentation on the abandoned or destitute of this world and why? 
 The recruiting goals weren't met for the Army. Huh? Sixth, it was too short. It took me about three 
 to four hours to play this game.
  
  Frankly, Timeshift was a better game than this dog... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stofware
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Was really looking forward to this game - mainly cause love Co-op online on shooters - but it really 
 disappointed me when I got it and found out they had cancelled the co-op just prior to going gold. 
 
  
  The game was so linear and there is so much that showed no real effort to make this game live up 
 to standards set by other FPS/3PSs over the last few years. Little things like when you die - you 
 have to go back to meaningless dialogues, a guy taking a bio-break, opening doors and walking around 
 a huge courtyard, etc. to get back to where you were. Can't they set re-spawning after you die 
 better than that? Just lazy.
  
  The voice acting was done very 'boringly'. Obviously not many real actors involved and/or really 
 bad direction. Laughable at times.
  
  Running around the environments would come up to invisible 'walls'. Also, to open doors and stuff 
 the holographic image would either not be there or unusable for no apparent reason and would have 
 to wait like 10 seconds or more. 
  
  I could go on but it pains me too - there is so much that showed this game was not really committed 
 to and therefore just thrown out the door - would have been better to scrap it probably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flavour666
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The game is separated into six loosely connected episodes, but right in the middle of the 3rd episode, 
 you've seen ALL the game has to offer. You literally have seen all weapons, all enemy-types, every 
 little surprise the game might have hold is gone by then.
  
  The story is very weak. I could describe it in ONE very short sentence, but I don't want to spoil 
 it for the few who might enjoy this mess of a game.
  
  The weapons are so unbalanced and weak that I finished the whole game in one sitting (about five 
 hours!) using only ONE weapon (the same assault riffle you have from the very start) . I only changed 
 to the rocket launcher or the sniper rifle when the game forced me to. Otherwise there simply is 
 no point.
  
  You will often encounter portions where you simply don't know what to do next or where the game 
 simply doesn't progress, although you finished all objectives. At one point I had to kill my own 
 character with grenades so I could re-start from the last checkpoint and upon reaching the same 
 point in the game and doing the exact same stuff in the exact same order, the game progressed normally.
 
  
  You don't get ANY alien-powers, as the few 'aliens' (not really) who appear don't have any special 
 powers or weapons at all.
  
  The game still suffers from terrible slowdowns and runs nowhere near the stable 30fps promised 
 after the technically weak demo released nearly a year ago. It's technically on the same level 
 as said demo.
  
  It all looks OK, but the pretty exterior (the graphics) suffers from a bad interior (the code & 
 story) . The game is full of glitches. Just to give you an example: if you die while having the 
 zoom of your weapon enabled, you can't zoom again unless you change the weapon.
  
  The checkpoints are spaced way too far apart, so sometimes you have to replay a two or three minute 
 portion over and over again. The loading times, especially when you've died, are nothing short 
 of horrible. You have the feeling (and it's probably true) that the whole level, including ALL 
 textures and animations is reloaded each time you die.
  
  Do yourself and a favor and forget about this installment. I loved the original "Area 51" on Xbox1, 
 but this game has NOTHING to do with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I've waited for this game since they released the Xbox360 downloadable demo, where I thought it 
 was gonna be utterly awesome. However, I'm finding it to be rather disappointing. Too much time 
 wasted trying to get around road blocks, the AI seems childish at times, the objectives are weak 
 and sparse, shadows are often pixelated, too many surfaces look like they're coated with ice, and 
 the "alien" enemies are redundant and cartoon-like. I did try the online gaming mode, and to be 
 fair, it wasn't for very long, but it seemed like it was headed for mediocrity so I bailed.
  
  Overall this game isn't going to be a classic. In fact, for the money, Bioshock was 5 times 
 the game that this is.
  
  Not worth the price of admission, doesn't live up to current standards. Look for this in the $25 
 bin after the holidays. I want my $60 back so I can buy Call Of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KreepLX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Should-a, could-a, would-a; almost but not quite. Blacksite had all of the potential of being a 
 really cool game but it is clearly evident that the developers did not take the time to polish 
 some of the "clearly evident" flaws that ruined the entire premise. The frame rate drops were absolutely 
 dreadful at the simplest events such as grenade explosions, the animations in the cut scenes are 
 sub-par, and particles seemed to just hover in the air. Don't get me wrong, the story is really 
 interesting and I would like to finish it to see what happens but my first overall impression wanted 
 me to stop playing on the first level. When are these developers going to realize that pushing 
 a product to make budget deadlines, not keeping promises (the co-op campaign) , and lacking on the 
 final polishing is going to kill sales? All they had to do is push it back a few months and put 
 forth the extra effort to really make it like the original demo. Mass Effect, Half Life: Orange 
 Box, and others are willing to make sacrifices to release above par titles because the money to 
 support these companies does not come from bargain bins in the store. My favorite part is when 
 I get into a jeep when the guys are standing around it and they disappear and re-appear in the 
 jeep; it just looks bad. The game is not that hard, even on hard, so it is worth a rent just for 
 the story and achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lenmo
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Yea very disappointing graphics. If you can get past the ok graphics then the game is entertaining 
 enough. It does not warrant purchase as I did. The game is a renter if you like FPS's and want 
 a change of atmosphere. Nothing new and it stuns me that the environment is so lacking in interaction. 
 Very few items can be destroyed and/or reflect splash damage. There isnt even damage from bullets. 
 Very few different types of guns and vehicles. The squad based combat system is almost non-existant 
 and if you don't give them combat orders they follow you around anyway so its like "whats the point?". 
 Too much hype on a poor game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first downloaded and played the demo, I totally enjoyed it, as short as it is: there was 
 a good potential there. Very nice graphics, and from the short time that I spend it looked like 
 there's a lot of good gameplay behind it.
  
  Now, I got a release version 2 days ago and... Honestly, I'm baffled. First thing that caught my 
 eye is the graphics: it's certainly rendered at a lower resolution, not even full 720p. Plus pretty 
 much all textures are "dumbed down": lower resolution, less detail. Same goes for alien models. 
 Just take the first eposide once you reach Rachel, NV: compare the way aliens look in demo and 
 the way they look in the final game!
  
  I'm very disappointed and frankly, can't play it anymore. To me, personally, it seems like a perfect 
 example of "bait and switch": bait with a nice looking demo, then switch to an ugly final release 
 : (
  
  UPDATE: It also turned out to be the shortest game I've played so far: total play time was about 
 5 hours. Pity... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTHBxFeathers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok i will start by saying that i pretty much only play shooters. I own Gears of War, GRAW2, Vegas, 
 COD4, and other shooters like that. I like the way this game plays and the way the engine runs 
 so smooth. The graphics in my opinion are great and you can also destroy your surroundings, such 
 as walls, bricks, plywood, and stuff like that. The multiplayer looks good and the story mode looks 
 good, so for me just playing shooters I give this game an 8.5. I am rating this because the graphics 
 arent as good as gears and the online play isnt like COD4, but it is still a good game in itself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omrikk87
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  Midway is a talented company , but its always kinnda half way with their games , BSA51 is the same 
 thing.
  
  Graphics:
  
  models and environment are good , shiny and realistic but the weapon models , car models , some 
 of the overall look is decent only.
  
  Sound:
  the sound overall is good , the cutscenes , missions ,mission briefing and in mission dialogs are 
 awesome but again , the weapons and the explosion, turrets sounds bad.
  
  Gameplay:
  One big thing in this game that is superb ,just perfect "one button team control" (RB) :
  
  
 probably the best innovative tool for FPS gaming with a bit tactics , when u wanna open a door 
 , activate gate , plant a C4 , get some cover , or send team mates to other places for cover etc 
 , u press RB and thats it , very very sleak and awesome.
  
  other then that , the whole game is very average , with the bad sound of the weapons (4 modern 
  and the scifi weapons are a bit better, overall its not 
 a AAA game.
  
  Replay Value:
  i think u can finish the game in about 8 hours , even there is a Multiplayer , the fact that there 
 is no Co-op online (been cut at the end) its a local singleplayer game , with COD4 ,Halo3 MP gaming 
 will be there.
  
  Overall Blacksite is a decent Fps game , with some diversion like shooting from cars , heli's but 
 besides the RB control the game is an average FPS , the storyline is good , but i think they needed 
 to put more modern missions\episodes and then put the whole scifi later like they did in the 2.5 
 episode...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimension888
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt this game does not measure up to Assassin's Creed, Bioshock, or Halo 3, but it 
 is still remains a great game. I had trouble putting the game down and ended up beating the game 
 in two days. I really like the idea of the morale system implemented in the game. When you do well 
 and lead your team correctly then your team will make intelligent decisions and shoot well. Lead 
 your team to disaster and they'll act like idiots and lead you to failure. 
  
  I haven't played any of the on-line modes yet, but I'll give Blacksites capture the flag mode a 
 whirl here in the next couple of days. Once you beat the Creed and Bioshock and want to play something 
 other than Halo then get yourself a copy of Blacksite.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
