-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bladestorm: The Hundred Years' War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/bladestorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy-to-use controls for commanding companies of troops.
 Great idea to blend arcade action with squad combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign just recycles the same style of battles over and over again.
 No strategic depth or arcade satisfaction.
 Ineffective artificial intelligence.
 Dated visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.5, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 478 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fresh ideas can't save Bladestorm from mediocrity. 

  It looks like Koei has finally exhausted Asia. The publisher best known for its takes on Chinese 
 and Japanese history heads to Europe with Bladestorm: The Hundred Years' War. The game is a look 
 at the bloody conflict that spawned a few classic Shakespearean plays and the legend of Joan of 
 Arc. This shift to the West doesn't come without its problems, however. Although the number of 
 troops that cross swords on battlefields is impressive and while the multigenre gameplay that blends 
 action, strategy, and role playing holds at least the promise of innovation, way too much repetition 
 mires the game in mediocrity.  

           Squad combat is a snap in Bladestorm, but it lacks strategic depth and is so packed with 
 troops that it seems both chaotic and vaguely pointless.      

  Those expecting a French-English version of the Chinese carnage depicted in Koei's Dynasty Warriors 
 series will likely be disappointed. Instead of the all-action theme of that franchise, Bladestorm 
 throws a changeup that mixes melee madness with commanding companies of soldiers that range from 
 knights and archers to pikemen and cavalry. Although you take the role of a mercenary seeking fame 
 and fortune while observing battlefields from the standard third-person perspective, you go after 
 your goals by taking charge of troops or fighting as part of groups. There isn't a great deal of 
 strategy involved when playing general, however. All you have to do to take over troops is run 
 up to the nearest company of allied soldiers and click a button. With one bellow, you've got a 
 gang of pals willing to die for you. If only it was that easy in real life. Anyhow, the only difference 
 between this approach and the typical solo actioner is that you have to make a brief pit stop to 
 grab a bunch of guys to attack along with you, so you don't just charge enemy positions solo.  
 

  This rudimentary control scheme leads to Bladestorm's downfall in some ways. Commanding troops 
 is so simplistic that you can just about forget that you're not alone. Buddies in chain mail follow 
 you automatically, attack the closest bad guys whenever you hold down the right trigger, and make 
 shared actions en masse at the drop of a button. Every action is so precise that it can be rather 
 comical to watch. It's like you're part of a chorus line of medieval knights, all swinging swords 
 and firing arrows in unison. Also, because you're just abstractly going into battle, you never 
 get the direct, visceral satisfaction of pushing a button to drive a sword into an enemy's head. 
 Even though it can be sort of cool to hit the shared actions buttons and see everyone in your company 
 attack with swords or lances simultaneously, it doesn't have the immediacy of solo arcade fighting. 
 You feel a step removed from the fray, which isn't very satisfying. And because there isn't much 
 of a strategic component in battles to compensate for this odd distance between you and the action, 
 you sort of get the worst of both worlds in that neither element seems to have been pulled off 
 very well.  

  Battles themselves are also pretty straightforward in that they always seem to play out the same 
 way. You basically just rampage across a generic French countryside in each mission, conquering 
 one base after another until you reach the target settlement and take it out. There is little variety 
 in your fighting, while battles are typically so loaded with troops and so chaotic that they come 
 off like crazed mob scenes where you fight battles of attrition with little direct control over 
 the outcome. You send your swarm of goons in against the enemy swarm of goons and then hit the 
 shared action attack buttons every time that they regenerate. If your health drops perilously low, 
 you pull back to the nearest allied base to heal up and grab a fresh company of troops, then head 
 back to the front lines. Conquering enemy bases is somewhat satisfying because of the appearance 
 of named enemies and commanders that add a personal element to all the mass carnage. However, even 
 then, you're not taking on these foes in direct combat, so your level of fulfillment that comes 
 from killing them is limited.  

  And for a game that attempts to depict some of the reality of fighting with huge numbers of troops, 
 everything is awfully arcade-ish. Battles wrap at nightfall every day no matter what's taking place 
 when the counter runs down to zero and the sun sets. You can be right on the verge of taking an 
 enemy stronghold, have dozens of troops inside the walls, and then have to do the whole thing all 
 over again the next day simply because it got dark. Aside from the annoying repetition that this 
 forces, it just seems dumb, as if you're calling battles like ballgames on account of rain. Artificial 
 intelligence is also anything but realistic. Enemies seem so reluctant to attack that they usually 
 just sit back until you slam into them head-on. The only thing you really have to worry about is 
 the high number of enemies. Sheer weight of numbers almost always rules the day, so you don't have 
 to concern yourself unduly with smart attacks or even the rock-paper-scissors formula that governs 
 how units battle one another.  

  A little depth between battles makes Bladestorm somewhat more interesting. You spend time preparing 
 to take the field in a tavern, where the barkeep offers you contracts for upcoming battles. You 
 also upgrade books covering different types of troops (organized by weapons used) , buy equipment, 
 purchase units and strength-buffing pennants for instant deployment in battles later on, or get 
 the latest gossip from fellow barflies. Being able to custom outfit the types of troops available 
 to command and their battle skills through books is actually pretty interesting. It makes you feel 
 like you're really learning your mercenary craft and all of the personal equipment gives you the 
 sense of actually controlling an alter ego. But these abilities aren't all that obvious in battles. 
 Sure, it's great to buff the tackle skill of sword-wielding infantry. Yet all this really does 
 is up the damage dealt out, so you don't see any obvious difference in how the game plays. And 
 even though a story is told as you lay waste to medieval France, there is no rhyme or reason to 
 your actions. Although you'll make it through the campaign quicker by sticking to one side, you 
 can jump ship for whomever is offering the most money whenever you want, which eliminates strategic 
 considerations when planning moves. Why bother thinking when the battles all play out the same 
 way and there are no repercussions for swapping sides?  

           Like all good mercenaries, you're a jack-of-all-trades here, fitting in with knights on 
 foot and the cavalry crowd.      

  Frills are nonexistent in both the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of the game. Neither offers up any 
 multiplayer modes of play. Both are pretty much equally bad when it comes to video and audio quality. 
 Graphics have been dialed back too close to original Xbox levels possibly because of the large 
 numbers of troops onscreen simultaneously. So the game moves quite well on both platforms but isn't 
 much to look at on either. Visual design isn't spectacular either largely because of a flat color 
 palette that makes it tough to tell different types of troops apart and to read the minimap (which 
 is also too tiny to use properly even on a 54" HDTV) . Audio effects are of similar quality, with 
 lots of tinny bombast involving swords smashing together and horses galloping. The only major difference 
 between the two platforms seemed to be stability; the 360 game locked up on a number of occasions 
 while the PS3 game ran without a hitch.  

  Even with such a solid, action-first squad-combat idea, Bladestorm comes off as only half-finished. 
 Both the new gameplay concepts and the European setting need to be fleshed out more to really pick 
 up on the promise shown here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DarkGale17
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is about the Hundred Years' War between England and France, and frankly I couldn't be 
 more happy that they picked this setting: how many games in this setting have we seen vs. the hundreds 
 that correspond to the World Wars?
  
  The gist of it is, you create your mercenary and you hire your own little squad units that you 
 can take into battle. The nice thing is, you aren't obligated to one side. You pick each battle 
 yourself, and you can go by whichever country you like, whichever battle pays more, etc.
  
  I'm a huge fan of the action system for combat that they have going on. I'm glad it isn't turn-based, 
 and you still get control. The squad types are pretty amazing. I know it's very mediocre and bland, 
 but my favorite units are the sword units (which I'm level 40 in XD) . I want to give the horses 
 a chance eventually, too.
  
  I'm not sure how historically accurate all of the game is, but if you are anywhere familiar with 
 the topic of the Hundred Years' War, you will see familiar faces such as:
  
  France
  Joan of Arc
  King of France (Philip VI)
  Gilles de Rais
  Gertrand du Guesclin
  La Hire 
 (tienne de Vignolles)
  Philippe Le Bon
  
  England
  John Chandos
  Edward, the Black Prince (Prince Edward)
  Hal (Henry, future King of England)
  Henry Percy
 
  King of England (Edward III)
  
  Anyways, I think this is a great game and it has a lot of potential. The battles are pretty epically 
 scaled, and there are tons of maps, giving you somewhat different fighting environments, including 
 Normandy, Brittany, Flanders, Gascony, and Champagne - just to name a few.
  
  My Overall Rating: 8 /10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I should start by saying that I enjoyed this game for several hours. The concepts were fun and 
 the characters look great. The story is one that I'm very passionate about and I think that this 
 could've been one of the greatest games on the X Box 360 for me. Sadly, they fell short of the 
 mark with some lazy design and uninspired gameplay.
  
  The concept of mercenaries in the Hundred Years War was particularly good. This gave an opportunity 
 to jump around and see the war from all angles. Now if this very complicated and interesting period 
 of time would've been given more than a cursory browse with the simplest of intentions that would've 
 been a major boon. As it stands, the choice of nationality is whether you like 'Red' or 'Blue' 
 better.
  
  Taking control of different units is kind of fun. You can't really manage a battle alone (you'll 
 get torn up pretty fast) but with a unit of swordsmen or cavalry, you're extremely deadly. There 
 was nothing more satisfying than running down infantry with a well timed cavalry charge (just watch 
 out for the spearmen!)
  
  You've got some neat tricks up your sleeve too. As you go nuts and beat ass, you build up a meter 
 that will allow you to unleash a 'bladestorm', that is a few moments of invincibility that allow 
 you to cruise across the battlefield at an increased rate of speed. Watching people get taken down 
 in that is also inspiring and armies fall pretty fast.
  
  Stages are divided up by daylight hours. You fight through the day and when night falls, the fighting 
 stops. Here you can regroup and check out the different movement of troops and pick a new location 
 to start the next day from. Each mission has an objective and you can take care of these objectives 
 pretty fast. 
  
  This is not always the best plan. As a mercenary, you're expected to score renown and glory. Taking 
 the objective too quickly can hinder that. Taking fortresses and taking down enemy commanders is 
 the way to go. This maximizes your efforts and nets you more money, renown and experience.
  
  Though it has the feel of Dynasty Warriors, I wouldn't go so far as to say it's a lot like 
 that. However, if you enjoyed that style of game, you'd love this. It's also like Ninety Nine Nights 
 (without the head ache of 45 minute long missions) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poltoja
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  At first glance you might think that this could be a really cool game. It is portrayed as a strategy 
 and fighting hybrid but in reality it falls way short on both aspects.
  
  When I got this game I loved it. It was all I played for about two weeks. And then something dawned 
 on me: the battlefields seemed oddly familiar. Why so you might ask? Well it is because you play 
 the same skirmish type battle on one of about seven maps over and over and over again. The story 
 has almost no progression and you will quickly grow tired of this game's repetitiveness. However, 
 these battles are sometimes split up by missions that actually matter and have to do with the plot. 
 Because these missions are so rare, you will actually get excited for a little bit of progression 
 in the campaign.
  
  Crappy storyline aside, the game is pretty good if you are looking for mindless hack 'n' slash 
 action. You literally slay thousands of soldiers in some of the bigger battles and your character 
 can pack one heck of a punch.
  
  But on the other hand if you are buying the game for the strategy element... save your money and 
 just don't buy it. Don't get me wrong, there are a lot of possible units to use but they really 
 don't vary much except along the lines of cavalry, infantry or bowmen. Furthermore, each unit only 
 has three moves that you can use.
  
  FINAL OPINION: This game is very boring. If for some reason you still want this game after reading 
 my review, rent it; don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordanMJ
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Bladestorm. Finally an answer to the repitive Dynasty/Samurai/Hey look it's Gundam Warriors 
 series. A light of hope shines over me as I pick up Bladestorm and shout "WOO! SOMETHING NEW!" 
 I think, finally, the cure to the insane repetition of the Warriors series was spawned. 
  
  That light of hope was quickly blown up by a ray of pure evil, anger, hatred, and nerd rage.
 
  
  Bladestorm is (ANOTHER)  game, though not as much as the 
 Warriors series. You're thrown into a tavern as a mercenary taking the best pay supporting England 
 or France in the wonderful 100 (and twenty) Years War. Throughout the course of the game, you'll 
 be visiting such provinces and Provence, Normandy, Aquitaine, Ile-de-France, Gergovie, Brittany, 
 and Champagne. There's a good chance I either forgot a place, or one of those provinces listed 
 isn't even in the game. But that doesn't matter, because each province is as bland as the last 
 one. All of the cities/fortresses look the same, save Paris of course, and the environment isn't 
 much to look at anyway.
  
  For instance, the city of Rennes is designed exactly the same as the city of Reims. There's a HUGE 
 lack of variety in most every city, fort, or large city you come across. That's not what this game 
 is about though, you stop caring about what crap looks like an hour into the game.
  
  On to the story, it's the 100 Years War. Complete with historical phalicies, and characters that 
 shouldn't appear in some battles, and should be dead by the time another battle comes along. I 
 don't feel like touching up on that, because there's so much to complain about that I'd never get 
 around to the gameplay.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, the game plays like Kessen 3, except buttons are assigned to the specific 
 abilities of the unit you're currently in control of. Here's how it works; you start off a battle 
 by your lonesome. You do one of two things: find a unit to take control of, or summon a unit you 
 bought from the shop at the tavern. There are several unit types, sword types, bow types, horse 
 types, elephants, camels, katanas, scythes, axes, 1h and shield style, and so on. Each archetype 
 has several different unit types, each with their own unique ability (ies) or their archetype specific 
 ability. Some attacks range from ungodly useful, to ungodly useless. Each unit has its weakness 
 to other units, giving each an advantage/disadvantage over another. There are a variety of different 
 units to choose from, at least, so you don't get bored as quickly. You can also customize your 
 units, as in upgrade their ability attacks, and overall statistics. It really makes the difference 
 of turning a crap unit archetype into an unstoppable rending machine.
  
  The major flaw with combat is that the majority of it is out of your control. You hold one button 
 to make your whole unit attack, and you occasionally hit an ability button to use a special attack, 
 which usually has a ridiculously long cooldown. It is fun, however, to watch your unit batter aside 
 others and watch the little tiny peons go flying into a painful death. THAT will never get old. 
 Maybe.
  
  Let me warn you, this game's difficulty curve goes in just about every direction. Sometimes the 
 game will be so easy that you don't even have to do work, and you can just let the NPCs take care 
 of the battle. Other times, the game gets annoyingly difficult, and you die. A lot. This changes 
 in the middle-ish of the game. Once you can buy Armored Knights, or Royal Knights, and your Horse 
 Stats are high enough, you can charge through an entire army and not get hit once, and take down 
 a good 4-5 units while you're at it. Doing so will fill up your Bladestorm meter. Bladestorm is 
 basically Musou Attacks on steroids. Your unit becomes ungodly fast, strong, and the abilities 
 charge up quicker, making you an even more effective killing machine.
  
  But even after all of that, you're never really doing anything new. The missions you take are the 
 same; capture X point, over and over again. You occasionally get story missions, or side-quests, 
 but they're just about as tedious as every quest. You can try to conquer every base in every provence 
 for the country you choose, but nothing ever happens. The battle just keeps on going, long after 
 you beat the game. The characters are nothing memorable either, and you'll probably find most to 
 be annoying. Almost all of them have atrocious voice acting (what's new there, right?) , and don't 
 have any redeeming qualities to make you give a rat's ass about the storyline.
  
  Aside from all of that, you can customize the look of your character through buying armor from 
 the merchant. Wooo, that makes the game that much better. Not really.
  
  In summary, this game is so repetitive, boring, and meaningless that you're better off sticking 
 to the Warriors series (oh god) . It's nice that Koei tried, but they're not going to get away with 
 throwing their typical mediocrity into a series that doesn't have the "Warriors" name stamped on 
 it. This is by no means a good game, and definitely isn't a good buy, hell I'd even recommend Colosseum: 
 Road to Freedom over this. It was nice to see a change in direction, but this change didn't even 
 come close to 'shining' as brightly as the Warrior series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtles12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  good game, nice graphics, but highly repetative and gets boring after a while. especially dissapointed 
 with koei because they made such a great game like dynasty warriors. Somehow koei have managed 
 to blend in a story mode but is still very confusing depending on whether you choose england or 
 france when fighting. The fighting style isn't very good and the camera angle is sometimes annoying. 
 The cut-scene graphics are very nice and keep you interested but when you fight in battle the graphics 
 are toned down. The sound, i would say is appropriate for a game like this but it could have done 
 with more and not just the opening scenes music. All in all a nice game but I definately reccomend 
 renting or borrowing this game off a friend before buying. Koei need to sit down and think of a 
 way to blend all the action of dynasty warriors, all the weapons, characters, scenery and the kind 
 of plotline that people will enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guts5
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. You actually get to decide who wins the war, one region at a time.
 
  
  There are over 15 different troop type variations and all have other troops that own them every 
 single time. So, you have to have a tactical mindset. I don't care how good you are... if you face 
 the wrong troop type it's almost instant death.
  
  archers own cavalry for instance... IF you get your shots off. Lancers get owned by the quicker 
 rapier troops or assassins etc... It has a lot more to it then the other Dynasty Warrior type games. 
 You have upgradable attacks and different troop types to unlock.
  
  I seriously, doubt any of the review sites played the game more than a few hours, much less all 
 the way through. I', m well over 50 hours into the game and still not done. For some new things 
 to happen battles and time has to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Bladestorm: The Hundred Years War puts gamers in the role of a rogue commander and gives them direct 
 control of mercenary units in fierce clashes with English and French forces. The games unique style 
 of action thrusts players into dynamic and ever-changing conflicts. Players must adjust their strategies 
 as skirmishes evolve, and then deploy the unit best-suited to handle the challenge. At a players 
 command is a broad array of troops including infantry, archers, and cavalry, as well as a variety 
 of specialized units such as elephant units, cannoniers, and castle siege specialists. While each 
 unit is comprised of autonomous soldiers, each warrior will contribute to the assigned objective.
 
  
  Bladestorm: The Hundred Years War utilizes a Free Mission system that allows players to align their 
 forces with either the French or English on a battle-by-battle basis. This unparalleled freedom 
 allows players to take on different assignments, or simply experience a given battle from an opposing 
 side.
  
  Game progression is wholly dependent on a players decisions and accomplishments on the battlefield. 
 Players must establish a reputation as a dependable and capable leader by successfully completing 
 each mission. The reputable commander will attract more desirable troops to his employ, and will 
 be asked to take on weightier challenges that reflect his status as a fighter and leader of men. 
 The troops themselves will also become more lethal as they gain combat experience. Through a point 
 system, players can augment their units combat capabilities.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  GTA never gets penalized for using the same formula, 
  Mario, Halo, Metroid, all get praise for building off a working platform. 
  
  Koei on the other 
 hand seems to always get the short end of the stick when they make an attempt to use the same formula, 
 and the short end even when they tweak it. 
  
  Bladestorm offers you a strong blend of the hack and slash action from the Dynasty Warriors series 
 and then blends in a wonderful amount of the RPG/RTS aspects that you got from the Empires series, 
 with a few added twists. 
  
  The first thing you will notice about the gameplay is that you have a series of options right out 
 of the gates. You are a Mercenary looking to make a few bucks and gain some fame during the 100 
 year French English wars. You start off in the Tavern which will be your base of operations for 
 most of the game and are afforded a few options. 
  
  You can get started and take a contract from either the French or English Armies. Normally a contract 
 consists of having to take over a base, or defend a base from takeover pretty straight forward 
 stuff, however some contracts some with little side deals where you may need to go to another base 
 off the beaten path to take out a commander, recover artwork, or do some espionage. This rewards 
 you with money and fame. 
  
  The first thing you will notice about Bladestorm that is different then any of the other Koei "Warriors" 
 franchises is that the days of storming a base on your own and taking about 100 guys is over. 
 
  
  You need to take command of various groups of soldiers with different talents, at the start of 
 the game you are pretty well stuck with Swordsmen, Horsemen, and Bows. Although as you process 
 in battles and gain fame you can add upwards of a dozen or so other weapons to your squad of units, 
 and those squads start to expand as you get more experienced. For example under Spears I have access 
 to Berserker Spears, Roman Spears, Spears and Sheild, and Plain ol' Spears based units so the more 
 books of weapons you get the larger your options in terms of units becomes. 
  
  This is another interesting aspect this game offers. When you are at the Tavern between battles 
 you have the option to recruit squads of soldiers that you can call forth in battle if needed. 
 It's not necessary as you can normally find a squad that is standing around close to your starting 
 location in battle you can grab, 
  
  The advantage of having recruits is should you find yourself low on men you can click the left 
 trigger and it will show you the squads you have available and you can click them and "POOF" they 
 appear on the field ready for you to take command. 
  
  What adds a little bit of the RPG aspect to the game is that the more you use a type of unit (Lets 
 say Swords) the more experience they get and the higher their level gets. You then get points that 
 you can assign to various aspects like attack, defense and leadership (Which dictates how many 
 troops will be in each unit) so if you play with nothing but swords they will be a very strong 
 unit however your other units will remain fairly weak which can become an issue later. 
  
  Long Spears are strong against Horsemen, and Horsemen strong against Axes, and so on what this 
 means is that unless your unit of choices is max out in terms of skills and strengths you may need 
 to rely on other units to get the job done.
  
  This is the aspect that makes the game a lot more interesting, in the past while playing the Empires 
 series I would beef up on General and move him from location to location using him all the time. 
 Various units being stronger against other units almost force you to experiment with different 
 types of units which makes the battles a little more interesting. 
  
  You also have the option of equipping your squads with upgraded weapons and shields and earlier 
 in the game doing that and staying close to allied squads controlled by the AI are the keys to 
 survival. 
  
  Graphically you get a game that is among the best I have seen from this sort of game from Koei, 
 but it hardly raises the bar for other genres on the platform. 
  
  The countryside looks good, the castles and bases are a little more diverse then we have seen in 
 the past. The units look unique, well unique enough that I can walk up to them and know what sort 
 of swords unit they are before selecting them for combat, although most soldiers within the unit 
 look similar. 
  
  There have been battles where about 400 troops were on the screen at once of anywhere from 10 different 
 unit types and I did not see a slowdown what so ever, which is an improvement over games from the 
 past. This game can handle the mob combat, and just doing that is a marked improvement over the 
 other games in the genre. 
  
  The named generals all look unique, even though they lead an army that will look like any other. 
 
  
  There have been comments made that the mini-map is too small, maybe I sit too close to my TV but 
 I use a 53" HD TV and I never had an issue figuring out what was where or where I needed to go. 
 
  
  The sound is passable. The score is not impressive nor is it deep enough that you do not hear the 
 same score over and over before the end of the game. 
  
  It's not bad, it sounds epic but there is just not enough of it, which reduces its quality. 
 
  
  There are no overly impressive tidbits of dialogue during the battle. If you come across an enemy 
 general you will get a standard canned response which is unique to him or her, and when you beat 
 them down you get the same canned response which is unique to him or her. 
  
  The dialogue that takes place in the tavern is a little better, the voice acting is pretty well 
 done although at times you feel that the French or English accents are being forced. The more important 
 characters in the game are generally well done and do add to the development of the storyline, 
 although story advancing battles can often be few and far in-between so the war diary comes in 
 handy when you are trying to figure out who that guy is and why you should be listening to him. 
 
  
  Titles like this always seem to offer value, if you are a fan of the genre. I put in 10 hours that 
 just flew by at the start, the middle tends to a little long in the tooth and my best advice would 
 be to stick to one side and just role with it advancement will come. 
  
  Overall, it is what it is. It's a solid Hack and Slash, which mixes in a nice amount of RTS and 
 RPG which mixes it up a little bit. 
  
  Chances are this will not be the game that gets you into the genre, but if you are always a fan 
 of Koei's work this is a nice addition. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cptkrunch13
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  many people dont reilize that bladestorm is a hidden gem a diamond in the rough one of those games 
 none heard of and they attomatticaly say o it must be bad because its not one of those run of the 
 mill shooters now a days its a great game the battles are epic and intense it has a bit of an rpg 
 element thrown into it and its pretty easy gamer score. sure the maps are just recycleed but so 
 what its addicting the graphics arent the best but are they really going to put detail into 100s 
 of troops i also think the music is grteat. but if your not a fan of the genre you might want to 
 rent it first and its one of those you goota be preparded to spend alot of time on The AI isnt 
 the best but unlike the dynasty warriars that koei produced you can actually controll units of 
 up to thirtey troops at a time and all you have to do is hold down one button and you and everyone 
 following you atomatticaly attacks any nearby eniemes but its more enjoyed in short bursts than 
 long marothons but deffiantly an addicting game a must rent at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmichaelson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game as a demo on Xbox Live, what can I say I love Koei games as repetitive 
 and boring as they can get and in the demo I had a lot of fun. If you haven't read anything on 
 it already then i will explain, you are basically a mercenary during the 100 years war and you 
 will fight for Britain and/or France for money. You fight by finding a group of soldiers (Swords 
 men, Spear men, Horsemen...) and using the units together to fight off enemies. I thought it was 
 fun for awhile, I enjoyed fighting multiple groups at a time. But after you experience the core 
 types of soldiers it all repeats and you won't enjoy it anymore, at least I didn't. For the record 
 I rented this game with Gamefly and I am glad I did, so if you have that and you are interested 
 go ahead and try it, but I wouldn't be too sure if you would want to even spend 8 dollars on it 
 let alone 60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zetroza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  I think it's an great game , because of the commanding of the armies en the cool armour's you can 
 get. There also no good or bad, it's fun to attack your previous boss xD.
  The Story with this game is also better than the samurai/dynasty series. More movies and more events. 
 It's not only taking over villages and defeating opposing mercenaries but you will also get other 
 mission aside. Some of those are important for the story and books. (gunpowder, explosion books)
 
  I first thought it was a stupid game but i got the hang of it, it was a great game.
  only down thing is the fame is very very slow at the end :S, but i find it a fun game so that's 
 no problem for me :) .
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  recommend for tactical players because of the army controlling. Sometimes you must do things to 
 survive an attack from the enemy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a very unique game in my opinion. For the first time you have a game dealing with an event 
 other then the Three Kingdoms Period in China, or the Warring States Period of Japan. Instead you 
 are presented with Europe's verson of the Age of Warring States: The Hundred Years War, which is 
 a nice change of pace. 
  
  Like Samurai and Dynasty Warriors the player encounters many historic figures from the Hundred 
 Years War, including Joan of Arc and the Black Prince. The addition of being able to change sides 
 during the course of the game is probably it's best feature, something Dynasty and Samurai warriors 
 lacks.
  
  The graphics of the game are supurb, however the major drawback for the game is it's control setup, 
 and the idea that you can't fight without a company of other soldiers with you, while this makes 
 the game more challenging it can also be a headache for gamers who are not use to a Kessen style 
 set up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedGer9
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  First time i glanced at this game and looked at the back cover i immediately thought about Kessen 
 3 (which i hated) and put it back and after reading Gamespots review i didn't think much of it 
 either, but as i thought most of the games i like Gamespot hate. so i picked it up.
  
  Story:
  The story is based in the 100 years war between France and England in medieval times, 
 You assume a role of a mercenary which you create and name and go out doing contract missions the 
 bar tender or others will ask you to do. 
  
  you can take either side French Or English to do battle but will have to join both sides at sometime 
 for the story to progress.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay to Bladestorm is not somewhat unique but in similarity to that of Ninety-nine nights 
 or Kingdom under fire, unlike Dynasty warriors you can command a horde of troops which will follow 
 you until death their are countless different sets of troops each with different ability's and 
 weapons and tactics is everything and unlike that of ninety nine nights you can upgrade your character 
 with heavy armor and weapons that he will equip when with a certain set of troops. also you can 
 buy troops in the bar and summon them in battle if you need to invade a base in a hurry.
  
  the downsides are that when creating your character your are very limited to the features, the 
 features include gender , face (9 selections) and voice (3 selections) there is no choice to put 
 facial hair on him or even make him buffer, another is when in battle it can come quite a pain 
 when trying to take over a base you cannot find the people to kill so the base commander will appear 
 this will leave you in a struggle for hours as you will either have to wait for an ally to evade 
 the base or go wandering searching for the set of troops you needs to kill.
  
  Graphics:
  even though Koei always push how many troops they can put on screen the graphics for Bladestorm 
 is not next gen stuff every character are the same facial wise and it just bugs me when i see someones 
 beard in the movie sequence slice through his chest. but that is not he main problem with the graphics 
 but the detail of the environment could of at least been polished this would make it more attracted 
 to stand out on the shelf. but sooner or later you'll notice it less as you will more or less focus 
 on the game than its flaws.
  
  Sound in general :
  
  the music is pretty swifty for a game based in the time of era and when taking either the English 
 or French the music will change so if you get of the one go and try the other. the sound effects 
 are suitable for a war game with every weapon making a different sound.
  
  the voice acting i must admit is pretty terrible as always an American trying to put on an accent 
 always works out terrible its not even convincing, this was probably a sign of a budget.
  
  Overall:
  despite the terrible voice acting and French generals called Patrick Bladestorm :the 
 Hundred Year war will get you glued to the t. v for hours when your really stuck into building up 
 your troops and destroying either the French or English, and just on the note the game is no way 
 similar to that of the Dynasty Warriors Series or Kessen Series or a mix of both it is more similar 
 to Ninety Nine night but with less hours for every battle and less frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sckisback14
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Normally, i would stand behind Koei waving the banner of Repetive gameplay isn't a bad thing whilst 
 at the same time chanting a daft theme tune i made up on the spot. Oh how times have changed..... now 
 i take a P*** on the banner, set it on fire (yes mine is flamable) and throw a copy of Bldestorm 
 on top. 
  
  As you probably aready picked up i am not to fond of the game. Now i dont play a game for 5 mins 
 and decide on the spot that it is too hard or too boring at that exact moment, no, i think that 
 "it'll probably save the fun parts for later" or "meh, this tough i better practice" but i have 
 finally came across a game from koei that makes me so bored i switch the console off and hide in 
 a corner with a dark cloud above my head and swear till my neck turns purple! ...... but enough 
 of my peronel feelings, onto the REVIEW.
  
  Gameplay: 2/10
  
  The most important aspect of a video game. Master the gameplay and you can stop people focusing 
 on the dodgy graphics and think "this is fun!" Why..... oh....... WHY didn't anyone tell KOEI?!?!?!? 
 The gameplay in this game is Bland , Boring and all the other descriminating words that begins 
 with B! The gameplay is very similar to the Kessen series which is good! (  
  Graphics: 4/10
  
  The opening cutscene is done well but that is THE highlight of the graphics. 
 The character models arent very impressive, KOEI could do much better. The special attacks have 
 pretty little light shows similar to dynasty warriors musou attacks and can cause some carnage 
 which is welcome. The scenery is one of the worst issues of the game because it is so similar at 
 every spot, now i know that game developer cant spend all their time on scenery but at least add 
 a bush or two in a random place.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  
  I give this a 5 because the sound can be belivable at points such as the sword fighting, the steel 
 clanging against each other makes the fighting bearable for the first few seconds. The voice acting 
 isnt very good, i know KOEI hasnt had a shining record of good voice acting in games but come on! 
 some of the dialog is so damn cheesy!
  
  Overall: 4.5/10
  
  If you must get this game, rent it first or buy it when its cheaper. It is a game for those people 
 out their that like to spend 20 mins running across a field with a batallion of static men whilst 
 listening to a countinuous piece of music over and over (yeah they exist!) This is a poor effort 
 from KOEI but don't give up on them, from what i've seen from Dynasty Warriors 6 KOEI could be 
 learning from their mistakes....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCHesh420
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  im so tired of playing the same Koei games, dont get me wrong i play a lot of other games but when 
 i want to fight whole armies with only the help a army with the combined IQ of a pre-school. Sure 
 this one is Slightly different but whats different about this game actually makes it worse. Koei 
 is a money hungry blob that puts as many full priced games out that they can with out actually 
 spending a lot of money on making them. Great now im all pissed off. KOEI PLZ STOP MAKING THESE 
 GAMES! At least makes one that is up to date with graphics, sound, game play, and for god sakes 
 sop making expansions to already crappy games and charging the full price for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyLavs
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why people are saying this game is confusing. It is very much like dynasty warriors 
 games, only instead of rushing into battle solo, you rush into battle with a battle squad. The 
 squad you pick is better against certain types of enemy squads, but weaker against others. Thats 
 about all the contemplation you will need for this game. 
  
  Now -- If your squad dies off, but your hero is alive. You can select one of three reserve squads 
 that you recruited before the mission started (for money) . And the new squad instantly comes into 
 battle at your present location. I'm not sure how realistic that is though. Also, if your health 
 is low -- you just walk into a base your side controls, and you instantly fill your health meter.
 
  
  
  Battling is -very simple- for most weapons. You simply hold down the right bumper button and your 
 squad (and your hero) automatically attack whatever is around you. You also have three special 
 gauges for special moves which are specific to your squad. You can only use these once in awhile, 
 hence the guages. Most of these specific abilities are similar to abilities that other squad types 
 have, just with different names...
  
  As a mercenary, you are really not connected to either the French or the English. You can freely 
 alternate sides after each mission. 
  
  You only get a certain number of days to complete most missions. And days go by pretty quickly. 
 I think you could realistically only take 5 bases in a given day if you are on the ball.
  
  In terms of character (hero) selection at the beginning of the game; this lacks the variety that 
 you might see in other games. You have something like seven created heroes (from each gender) to 
 select from. Three voice types for the female, for example; they all have heavy European accents...
 
  
  This game; overall, is not that complex. Most of it is pretty easy and it can get repetitive quickly. 
 In the later sequences I hear it gets hard; but i haven't really experienced that. 
  
  Overall, I feel this game needs another dimension. Something more strategic. Otherwise the game 
 degenerates into -- run into a base, hold the right bumper down, kill everyone, capture the base, 
 move to the next base... rinse and repeat, until the mission is complete. Sure, you could also say 
 that about Dynasty warriors games, but the Dynasty warrios games have a visceral thrill associated 
 with dispatching enemies. So they are fun.
  
  This game lacks that to some degree. Maybe its because there are so many guys on the screen at 
 one time, you can't tell which soldier is on which side. It really doesn't matter for this game. 
 As long as you hold RB down, all of your soldiers know exactly who to attack.
  
  It's not a bad game by any means. It's just needs something more to really shine. There are some 
 siege weapons which are pretty cool (battering ram for instance) but other than that, I would say 
 this game is more suited for a weekend rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Blade Storm is an historic game, In this game you are a mercenary fighting for England or France. If 
 you choose more mission in one of the 2 army, you will have more friends (Mercenary, Royalty, General 
 or Other grade army) of this army than the other side. The game is pretty good, you have many kind 
 of troops (swordman to elephant rider) and you can boost the ability of youre troops and buy weapons 
 or armor to be more stronger with a specific troop. You can reach XP when you fight with a troop 
 and boost youre capatain stat with this troop  
  
  The game look like pretty long, The game is more attractive than SW (Samurai Warriors) . If you love 
 good beat-hem up, buy it now.
  See ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GyspyDevil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll say, this game probably isn't for everyone. That being said it's a ton of fun.
 
  
  This is a large scale battle game, fighting other humans, and it's not a hack and slash. The different 
 units play differently. Nice character growth, skills, both passive and active, tons of weapon, 
 armor, items. Game gets pretty challenging at places.
  
  This is not the best game in the world, but to be honest, it's probably the best game I've ever 
 seen that not only puts you in the middle of large historical battles, but drawn out wars. Game 
 is LONG, worth the money.
  
  The point is, this game is actually pretty addictive and I would recommend it if you like these 
 large scale battle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game deals with one of the most interesting periods of European history. How two countries 
 could keep one conflict going for so long is a tragic mystery. It is into this campaign that you 
 are placed -- as a mercenary, however, not as a soldier. That was disappointing to me, as I wanted 
 to be able to experience life as a member of either army proper. 
  
  Nevertheless, you won't lack for battle experience. Learn to command archers, cavalry and foot 
 soldiers alike. The battles are fast: the enemy runs at you and you respond -- that's it. Many of 
 the set pieces were over in a few seconds at most. I was expecting something a little more like 
 the classic "Genghis Khan." If you're looking to get a lot of your work finished in a hurry, you 
 may enjoy this aspect of the game. Still, there are more than enough games today which offer the 
 "Dungeons and Dragons on rocket fuel" experience. I would have appreciate the chance to see and 
 absorb what I was doing.
  
  In the end, this is a game worth playing, but rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniwisdom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I'll first start with the problems. 
  Most annoying thing is the AI of all the troops. For instance you storm into an enemy base and 
 the units you need to destroy to lower the points cannot be found and if allies do show up, they 
 take a reeeealy long time and sometime they stop their advancement before the base commander appears.
 
  The second bad thing about the game is the graphics... for instance the flags of troops on the 
 battlefield look like pieces of cardboard, but in the heat of a battle you no longer care about 
 that.
  The best thing about the game is that the battles are really captivating and while trying to get 
 one more base you don't even realize the day is over. also, the variety of troops you can command 
 is nice even though the game features units out of the region (like Chinese units) or out of time 
 (the Roman spears or Phalanx) .
  Another fun and interesting thing about the game is that it could get easier at first if you use 
 the same unit type a lot, but after a while it levels out since you'll max it out while the difficulty 
 of the missions keep on increasing. so even if you used one type of units you'll eventually want 
 to switch and try other tactics and get a different feeling.
  Playing as a mercenary is really a good idea because it lets you pick the battles you want without 
 altering too much the course of the war (at least I haven't got to that point) and it's fun to 
 get a mission for one side, occupy all the bases only to get the same mission from the opposite 
 faction next turn.
  Overall, this game is a lot of fun and it has something besides the button mashing that makes it 
 stand out and be enjoyable, so an 8.5 is a fair score and a game you should play even if you rent 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1mpthra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  number 1- on the french side, you can play as pellerin witch is my last name :)
  number 2- im a sucker for koei games
  number 3- i could still kill lubu a few more times, but 
 ehh i would much rather throw a spear wall up at charging ponys
  number 4-archer vollys, its just so please-ing to kill a hand full of guys while there battle-ling 
 some one else... cheap.. yet fun
  
  number 5- 1000ko YOU ARE THE BEST WARRIOR I HAVE SEEN -YuanShao, now in this you cant do that, 
 go unit less, into a hoard of guys and leave with Li Dians balls, you can if u have a well enough 
 support or spears vs ponys.
  number 6... least but not last- the tavern guys, make me laugh every time, AWFUL voice acting, 
 thats why koei games pwn &gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucmic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  The demo was very easy and you probably didn't die once, i have bought the game and it gets hard! 
 you really need to use a type of soldiers that isn't weak against another or you will start to 
 have problems if they are high leveled. Also something else that wasn't included in the demo is 
 that you can actually control and tell other troops where to go and attack (i havent got this far 
 but people wit the japanese version have told me this)
  
  For all you people that have asked if this game is the same as Dynasty Warriors well its not, its 
 a completely different kind of game, so for all you people that are bored of using one character 
 the clear a battlefield dont worry... you wont be able to do the 2 star rated missions and above 
 with one squad on this game.
  
  All in all i believe this is a brilliant game and i will be playing this for a long time. I highly 
 recommend you buy it guys :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I didnt like it. I had no idea what was going on It all seemed 
 very confusing. I did however like the look of the game, so I read the instructions, again and 
 went once more into the breach Do you know what? I now like it. I think its great fun and very 
 compulsive. I do have to say that its not for everyone but it does have a certain something about 
 it.
  
  So here is the low down  If you like to be the solo hero this game is not for you.
  If you liked 
 Gears of war or Halo you will hate this.
  If you liked Total war and wished you could get right down to troop level you will love this.
 
  If you are fed up with the Dynasty Warriors series and want a new direction, then yep this is 
 for you.
  
  Well I hope that clears everything up I must go now, I want to get some new armour and work on 
 getting my fame level up. See you on the fields of France! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
