-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/worldwariisquadron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good multiplayer options, especially for team games.
 Sharp-looking environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dull mission objectives.
 Easy dogfights.
 Downright offensive enemy voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.6, 69 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,617 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date: Mar 23, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blazing Angels has nice looks, but the action doesn't distinguish itself in any way. 

  Still somewhat hot on the heels of Ubisoft's last World War II flight combat game, which was released 
 on the Xbox and PlayStation 2 six months ago, comes Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII on the Xbox 
 360. This is about as standard as a mission-based flight game can get -- you'll get to bomb targets, 
 dogfight, and defend a lot of stuff in a variety of era-specific planes. While it's a competent 
 package, it doesn't stand out in any way, even though it's the first of its kind on Microsoft's 
 new console.  

          Blazing Angels offers a very standard mission-based campaign.     

  You play the role 
 of a squadron leader in Blazing Angels, but you don't start out with a squadron to command. Instead, 
 you're one of the few American pilots helping out the British flyboys. You'll jump right into training, 
 but that doesn't last long, because you're quickly whisked away to protect Dunkirk. You'll meet 
 your squadmates early on, and you'll always fly with the same crew, though a few spots here and 
 there have you out on your own. Even then, your group will keep in touch via the radio. When flying 
 alongside them, you'll be able to give them basic orders, such as to break off and attack or to 
 come back to defend you. Each of your three comrades has a unique ability. Frank runs his mouth 
 a lot, but he's also good at getting out there and knocking out targets when you turn him loose. 
 Tom can taunt enemies to pull them off of you if you're under too much fire. And Joe can occasionally 
 allow you to repair your plane via a series of button presses. Their voices are constantly coming 
 at you over the radio, and they're well done. The enemy also chats it up a lot, in heavily accented, 
 nearly broken English, no less. At times, the Japanese voice acting sounds flat-out racist, which 
 casts a dark cloud over the rest of the game's usually-sharp audio.  

  Once you meet your team, the game skips around, putting you in many of the major air battles of 
 the war. Aside from frame rate hitches here and there, and some pretty ugly-looking ground targets, 
 the different spots you'll visit look nice, as do many of the plane models. You'll fly over Pearl 
 Harbor and try to prevent as much damage as possible. You'll fly out over the desert of North Africa 
 in search of Nazis in hiding. You'll fly at Midway and take out a sizable chunk of the Japanese 
 fleet. Despite the frequent changes of scenery, the missions are very cut-and-dried. You're presented 
 with objective after objective, and very few of them are difficult. Between the relative weakness 
 of the forces you'll be facing and your ability to make repairs to your plane, you rarely get shot 
 down unless you're doing something dumb, like flying too high when attempting to creep up on some 
 radar towers that are surrounded by antiaircraft guns. Overall, the game does a good job of making 
 you feel very powerful, but ultimately the victories seem hollow, because you rarely feel like 
 you can fail. At least the game mixes dogfighting with bombing reasonably well. Torpedoing enemy 
 cruisers and carriers is fun.  

  Flying planes in Blazing Angels is kept pretty light. Your throttle control is on the right stick, 
 and you maneuver with the left, fire with the right trigger, and use the left trigger to get the 
 camera to crane over and "follow" your current target. The follow cam takes some getting used to, 
 as it can be pretty disorienting. Instead of flying straight ahead, you're often getting a view 
 of the front of your plane. But it's useful for quickly reorienting yourself and pointing yourself 
 at your target, which is key for shooting down enemy planes. Still, an onscreen arrow on the front 
 of the HUD would have probably worked, too.  

  In addition to its 18 campaign missions and a pair of mini campaigns that open up after you beat 
 the game, Blazing Angels has a few quick-start alternatives. Arcade mode gives you a timer and 
 puts you up against waves of planes. Ace duel puts you up against a single ace pilot, both in the 
 same plane. Beating him unlocks a new paint job for that plane. If the dogfighting were challenging, 
 that might mean something, but instead you can get by just by hitting the brakes for a better turning 
 radius and getting in behind your target.  

          The competitive multiplayer modes breathe some life into the game.     

  In addition 
 to some offline multiplayer options, you can get online and fly with up to 16 planes in one multiplayer 
 match. There are three modes available for solo games. Dogfight is your aerial equivalent of deathmatch, 
 and this one can also be played in team mode. Seek and destroy has you shooting down marked planes, 
 and the winner is the pilot that can shoot down each other pilot in the game once. And aces high 
 is a mode that pits the entire game against one ace player, who is the only player who can score 
 points until he is shot down, creating a new ace. Team battles don't get aces high or seek and 
 destroy, but three additional modes are here. Capture the base has players attempting to land on 
 each other's runways to score points. Bombing run has you bombing each other's bases, and kamikaze 
 lets you protect your ground targets from incoming kamikaze pilots. Overall, the competitive multiplayer 
 is more exciting than the single-player, but only in larger groups.  

  Outside of the standard ranked matches, you can also play a handful of the modes in a four-player 
 co-op setting either via system link or Xbox Live, including a campaign option that lets you play 
 through versions of the missions found in the single-player campaign. These are a bit tougher, 
 since you'll have to rely on humans instead of your AI-controlled counterparts, meaning that Joe 
 won't be there to let you repair your plane by yourself, even though you'll still hear your squadmates 
 giving advice over the radio. But even though you'll probably go down a little more frequently, 
 you can respawn a number of times during the mission, which offsets the increased difficulty.  
 

  There's enough action here to satisfy you if you know you're in the market for your basic WWII 
 flight combat game, but it's also very standard. If you're up for more of the same, or if you haven't 
 played a WWII flight combat game in a good long time, Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII is worth 
 checking out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (114 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Andilliio
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Blazing angels impresses you from the beggining with awesome graphics and detail. The strictly 
 arcade flying is fun and easy. Well at least at first. As simple and funas arcade style flying is 
 it just doesn't take as much skill or piloting technique as othr styles making the arcade controls 
 a downside to this game. Overall the fighting is pretty straight forward, hold your brakes and 
 turn this can get repetative after a while. Luckily the campain is interesting and full of all 
 different kinds of interesting objectives to fill in the beautiful world that blazing angels lets 
 you fly in. The campain is pretty short too so you won't get bored of the controls before you have 
 finished the campain. In this game you get to see all fronts and fly tons of planes which is really 
 very interesting as each plane has its own set of stats. This game probably has the most planes 
 in one game out there. Once you finish the campain there are a lot of little things you can do 
 with instant action challenges that will give you another burst of fun. Some of the things you 
 can do include upgrading your planes by doing a three wave challenge. Overall the instant action 
 part is just a fun place to try out the new planes you get and not really much on its own. Fortunatly 
 there is a pretty interesting multyplayer portion of this game that gives you all sorts of fun 
 options. Unfortunatlly this isn't all that great because lets face it co-op isn't exactlly perfect 
 for the flying genre. Over all the highlight of this game is the beautiful enviorments and plane 
 details. If you are a fan of the genre however I highly reccommend this game as a quicky.
  Graphics-9
  Gameplay-5
  Replay-6
  Multyplayer-6
  Story-6.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fighter_ace2358
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  It has everything that most people would want in game, great graphics, extra campaigns that make 
 the game last longer, and a good multiplayer. Downsides are, that the voice overs get real annoying 
 and makes you want to kill your enemies to make them shut up. Next downside is that the fighting, 
 though looks nice, is very easy and gets very dull after the first four missions. Also, there is 
 another downside, even though its a good multiplayer game, THERES NO ONE ON!!!! which renders the 
 quality of the game. overall its worth the buy if cheap, but you probably want to rent it first 
 to check if its your thing, Also if you do have it, please play it online, or you'll miss an awesome 
 xbox live experience.
  
  P. S. if you want to buy the game and cannot find in a store near you, then I suggest that you look 
 on ebay. there are a lot of them on there and they are relatively cheap, compared to most other 
 online stores that have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels is a fun arcade flight combat game that does a lot of things right; however the 
 game gets boring too quickly. The game flies very well and extremely easy. The learning curve is 
 quick and intuitive, and even finding your next enemy target is easy with the view lock option 
 that let's you fly your plane while looking at your target. This views offers some neat angles 
 of your aircraft that you would not get to see otherwise. The weapons feel powerful, and shooting 
 down an enemy plane is rarely tough. In fact, many times it is too easy. On the other hand, there 
 are several missions that will have you throwing your controller against the TV because of either 
 poor level design, insane ratcheted difficulty, or you are just confused out of your mind as to 
 what you are supposed to do. Each mission takes about 10 minutes or so, which is what leads to 
 the game's repetitive nature. Every mission seems to shape up along the lines of protect home base 
 from enemy bombers and fighters, then go hunt and kill the rest. Occasionally you will get to dive 
 bomb ships, or make a torpedo run now and again, which break up the gameplay, but are too rare 
 for my tastes. The game is fun to play, and if you are looking for something similar to Crimson 
 Skies for the original Xbox, this is a good filler (plus you get wingmen to control this time around) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  It's nice to see something different for a World War 2 themed game. Don't get me wrong, I love 
 learning about WW2 but the shooters are getting a little old (even though I loved Call of Duty 
 2) . Blazing Angels is something more new and original and although it may have it's frustrating 
 moments, it's very underrated.
  
  The story follows the "Angels of Dunkirk", as the squad is called, as they fight their way through 
 many famous battles of World War II. It's nice to reenact some famous battles such as D-day, Pearl 
 Harbor, Midway, the evacuation of Dunkirk, Battle over Britain, and many more. Some can be kind 
 of easy but I have found challenge in some of them.
  
  After you beat a mission, you can unlock two planes in each mission and there are a total of 46 
 planes. Well, most of them are unlocked from the campaign, but a few others have to be unlocked 
 through "mini campaign" where you have to do a set of missions of dog fighting and bombing (which 
 is all available after you beat the normal campaign) .
  
  When you unlock a plane, you can take it into "Arcade" mode where you have to fight three waves 
 of 12 planes each. If you defeat them all, the plane that you used will get upgraded. You can also 
 take them into "Ace" mode where you take on only one fighter who has the same plane and skills 
 as you. After that, you unlock a new skin for your plane, the "Ace".
  
  Multiplayer is the best feature. There are many modes to choose from such as Bombing Run, Duel, 
 Kamikaze, etc. You can also play the mission objectives in co-op. The only problem is that it's 
 only two players on one 360 so you need two in order to play 4 player. The game offers 16 players 
 total.
  
  This game could offer a little more as far as replayability goes but it's fun the way it is and 
 it deserves more credit. If you want to try out something new and different for a World War 2 game, 
 then Blazing Angels might be a good game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  It's nice to see something different in a World War II game, namely the battles against the Imperial 
 Japanese Air Force and the Luftwaffe. While this game has it's fair share of problems, owing from 
 difficult landing sequences, and poor camera and bombing controls Blazing Angels is a fun little 
 simiulater with an old school arcade feel to it. 
  
  The game chronicles the adventures of a group of American pilots from the legendary Eagle Squadren 
 from 1940 until the end of the war. What sets this game apart from other World War II games is 
 that it doesn't start out in 1942, like so many other games. Rather it starts out in 1940 beginning 
 with the Evacuation from Dunkirk and the Battle of Britian, and also includes missions set in the 
 Pacific including Pearl Harbor, Guadalcanal, and Midway. As the game progresses the player can 
 unlock and use a vairety of different planes, including Luftwaffe and Japanese air craft sunch 
 as the BF109 and A6M Zero fighters, all of which are very historically acurate.
  
  While these are possibly the game's best features, they ultimatly don't save it from it's most 
 crippling effects. Landing is one of the most difficult portions of the game, and has to be done 
 just right or the mission won't end. But the worst aspect of the game is it's bombing and camera 
 controls. Trying to master these controls is a challenge in it'self, with bombing the retical has 
 to be at exactally the right spot or your bombs and torpedos will over or undershoot their mark 
 . But the most cripling aspect of the game is it's camera controls. Trying to use the camera in 
 the midst of a dog fight makes winning a dog fight far more difficult, if not impossible.
  
  While the controls are hard to master Blazing Angels does provide enough entertainment value 
 to appeal to any die hard simulater or World War II shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatman_69
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I realize that this is an "arcade flight sim", but that is really no excuse for this game. One 
 needs to look no further than the Ace Combat series to see that this weak title is really not worth 
 playing. The fact it made it to a sequel is awe inspiring to me.
  
  The setting, WW2, is an amazing point in time to set many games as seen in the FPS genre and so 
 a flight sim should be the same. MS created the WW2 flight sim series which was really enjoyable 
 when flying in the period fighters. The problem is, this game is so thin from almost every perspective. 
 The planes are nice from a flight and graphics point of view but the game play and simple controls 
 really bring the title down quite a bit.
  
  I looked forward to playing this one as I like flight sims but tend to stray away from the hardcore 
 style. AC6 is the benchmark for this genre and BA2 doesn't even come close.
  
  Nice try, wish it could've been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Now, the first "next-generation" air combat game holds a lot and has a tremendous amount of potential. 
 For everything that the developer does great on, there's another thing which completely bgs it 
 down. With a very weak single-player experience, and somewhat fair multiplayer, that's if you can 
 find anyone to play with, then it's an "okay" game. A mere rent title, definitely not something 
 you would want to pick for for twenty or more dollars.
  
  The plot of blazing angels is pretty straight forward, you're an elite group of pilots known as 
 the Angels of Dunkirk, or well, Blazing Angels. You'll start off in London fighting with the RAF 
 against a German assualt. From there, you'll go to France, North Africa, and then to Pearl Harbor, 
 then in teh Pacific at Midway, and then back to France, and then to Berlin. Plenty of missions 
 and plenty of interesting important missions that you'll be able to take part in. Some of the level 
 designs are horendous, and can be rather confusing, that and added with the bad camera design can 
 get rather frusterating.
  
  Graphics are pretty great at times, other times, it looks worse than a Wii game when it comes to 
 ground and infantry animatioons are downright laughable. but landmarks are sharp and stunning. 
 Other effects such as smoke from Pearl Harbor is well, passable and water looks pretty decent compared 
 to some games. Plane models look great, however, for every great lking landmark, there's a thusand 
 lesser looking half-assed buildings which look like a game from 2000. When a plane catches on fire, 
 it still performs the same as a plane which isn't.
  
  The best part about Blazing Angels is clearly the sound. The sound of the planes, and the sound 
 of the constant machine gun fire of classic planes such as the P-51 is just instant awe. Of course 
 there is other minor things that bring down the sound, such as the annoying chatter over the radio 
 by Japanese and German pilots. Which they speak in English. And each comment is repeated many and 
 many times, so many times in which you'll want to bang your head against the desk.
  
  Overall -- Blazing Angels is a fair flying game on the Xbox 360. I would recommend other, much 
 better flying games, such as Ace Combat. This game is merely just a rent it first type of situation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Please rent this game before you buy it! I got around 3/4 of the way through the game and started 
 thinking... I have done this over and over again. Your mission objectives are very repeditive and 
 boring. Basicly you are doing thre same objectives over and over again with just different missions 
 and a different plane. The environments are also very dull and boring. The color scheme is generally 
 very dark and boring. The worst part of the game is thye radio chatter. It is very offensive and 
 unbelivabley annoying. Somehow your enemys speak an accented version of english. They will continuesly 
 yell "smoke and fire ha ha ha" Or silly things such as "so many bullets one is bound to hit!" Then 
 your own guys are very annoying too. They yell things such as, "I highly recomend that you shake 
 that guy", or , "Those planes cost money you know SHAKE THAT GUY!!!" I was eventually forced to 
 mute the game because I could stand it no longer. I really have nothing to say about this game 
 that is good except for a pretty good story line. And even though dull and boring surroundings 
 the plane graphics are pretty good. Unless you have to have a WW 2 flying game I recomend you go 
 buy Ace combat 6 or any other ace combat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Blazing angels is more simulation than arcade. The planes feel like you are literally pulling the 
 plane as hard as you can. The graphics are great. When you enter smoke, you can't see anything. 
 The new look as you fly camera is great and balances out as you don't want to use it if you are 
 in a city. The musical score is that of a typical action game and holds well. The planes are fun 
 to fly, but after you finish you'll be wanting more, which dulls down the replay value of this. 
 Online is not populated so i couldn't tell you how well that holds up. I find that after you beat 
 the campaign you will move on to something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  They take a perpetually exciting subject, throw in some gorgeous backgrounds, and then they give 
 you a plane that doesn't listen to what you want. What could go wrong?
  
  Whoever thought of putting the speed lever on the exact same side of the controller as the directional 
 stick is placed 99% of the time, needs to be bapped with several pillows. This little flaw means 
 that every time you try to change direction, you will probably throw your speed into overdrive, 
 and good luck doing a flip-over without tagging into the ground.
  
  The village church looks lovely, though.
  
  This game wins the award for longest and least 
 responsive tutorial ever. The plane has trouble cornering in midair, which is always a pain when 
 you're surrounded. I didn't know you had to do the same thing nine million times, as well as follow 
 up tough exercises with babyish simple ones, in order for things to count. Did they write the book 
 when they were hopped up on cold medicine?
  
  Oh well. True history buffs who are used to arduous flight simulators will probably get a real 
 kick out of this one. You can't fault the graphics, which are lovely, and the layout is quite intelligent. 
 It's just that I like games in which even the average dope, like myself, can quickly become competent. 
 Not too easy, but not too tough, either. I am sorry to say that this promising game had a hard 
 time putting boots under its desire to move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ce184705
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  It's a solid game that is pretty fun and moderately hard at some parts. If you are into air combat 
 games you will like this game. The only knock really that I had on this game was the fact that 
 it was the same thing over and over basically for just a little to long. The designers did a good 
 job and trying to switch things up for you, the levels change up in terms of what you have to do 
 but in the end your just trying to shoot and blow stuff up. It is a good game, but like I said 
 you might want to rent it first before you think about buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Blazing Angels is a good flying/air combat game. The single player campaign is good. It will take 
 about 15 hours to finish, but it does get repetitive. The other modes are arcade, ace duel, and 
 multiplayer. The arcade and ace duel modes are pretty boring. The game is repetative, but I liked 
 what the gameplay was that it didn't bother me too much. You will be shooting down planes, bombing 
 ground locations, and doing some other stuff like taking photos. The achievments for are pretty 
 tough.
  8/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  I loved the graphics for this game. The areas are vast and you can see a lot in the distance. I 
 thought that the graphics were really stunning on my hdtv, and they were also pretty good on a 
 standard tv. The planes all looked great.
  9/10
  
  Sound;
  
  The sound in this game is horrible. The voice acting is terrible and your fellow pilots always 
 say the same couple corny catchphrases. The fighting and the planes sound pretty good.
  4/10
  
  Value:
  
  I rented this game and I probally wouldn't buy if it was 30 dollars. 
 I would only buy this if it was under 15 bucks. Their really isn't any replay value.
  6/10
  
  Tilt:
  
  Overall I had a good time with this game and I played for like 25 hours. I got 
 all of the achievments and that pleases me. I think it is the best air combat game out for the 
 360.
  7/10
  
  Score=6.8 rounded to 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game hits the spot for those of us waiting for an avaiation shooter. It has great graphics 
 and good gameplay. For the most part it keeps you occupied, although some will get bored very easily. 
 We occasionally play multiplayer, which is also a kick, as long as you play coop. It is kind of 
 like playing afterburner with older planes. I know there is a blazing angels II coming out, but 
 we need a good aviation shooter with more modern planes. It is definately funner on the XBox 360 
 than the PC. The controls are a little smoother.
  
  Bring back afterburner!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjtr86
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are breathe taking and makes you feel you are a part of the game but when you are get 
 going fast enough it blurs to the point where its unbearable. Gameplay is incredible, flying evasive 
 maneuvers and shooting down some enemies is fun enough to be a game by itself. On the bad side 
 after about half an hour it gets so boring you feel like flying that airplane right into a cliff, 
 one of the reasons it get boring so quickly is the story line stops short and your hanging high 
 and dry wanting to continue playing. If you are an airplane, WWII or even just combat I would recommend 
 you at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider6k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  This game is a very fun game to play when you first buy it, but after you have completed the short 
 campaign it gets very boring, you might go back to it every now and again, but itl only b for a 
 few mins.
  
  despite all that, this game has good graphics and control, and flying the plane is fun and easy 
 to control.
  
  1 major let down is the few people who play it online. And probably would be abit more fun for 
 those who have XBL, if it was active. For this game i would highly reccommened you rent it 1st, 
 because its not a very long game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveadreamcast
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, I bought Blazing Angels. Mainly because I am interested in planes and WW2. So i thought this 
 game would be great. The graphics were great. but the sound could have been better. and the story 
 could have used some work. Also, every planes fly exactly the same and there are no physics. so 
 all the planes can ascend by flying straight up. Every mission is exactly the same. all you really 
 do is blow up a certain bride etc... This was such an average game and i hope the next one will 
 be alot better, Buy this game for 20 bucks in a bargain bin and you might be satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immeressen
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is just about right in terms of fun and difficulty without being realistic to the point 
 of frustration, as 'Over G Fighters' is. Aerial combat is actually many hours of sheer boredom 
 punctuated by a few quick seconds of rolls, wing-overs, Immelmans and loops, with maybe 5 seconds 
 of close visual contact with the enemy. This game makes the action considerably more frequent and 
 easy to engage in without requiring pilot-vision (360 degree bubble-canopy view) and with controls 
 that are easy to master and compensate well for the fact that you are viewing a 360-degree 3-dimensional 
 world through the 2-dimensional window pane of a television screen. The dogfights could have been 
 a little harder and the maps should have been much bigger to simulate an aerial combat universe, 
 but over all this game is fun and does what it's supposed to. I think the game should be sold for 
 about $30 bucks; the 'foreign' voice narration is a little corny and over-done - there's a little 
 too much of it. However overall this is a good game and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Most airplane games are always for the PC mainly because they allow deeper gameplay. But every 
 once in a while, they release a flight game for the PC. Most of the time, there not very good because 
 they never manage to fit in that PC quality depth onto a console. But Blazing Angels does a pretty 
 good job at it. You play the game as yourself, leading a small group of fighters in some of the 
 most famous air battles of WWII. There are a wide variety of missions set both in the Pacific Theater, 
 and the European Theater. The game takes place from the very beginning of the war to the very end. 
 You start in the battle of Britain, which took place before America even got involved in the war. 
 After fighting at Pearl Harbor, you fight the Japanese in the Pacific, followed by fighting the 
 Germans in Europe. Angels features more than 50 planes for you to fly around in, such as the P51 
 Mustang, P47 Thunderbolt, Spitfire, and even a B-17 bomber! You have 3 wingmen who fight along 
 side you, and can also perform special abilities. From a simulator perspective, this game isn't 
 very realistic, sure the planes are authentic, but they can take an unrealistic amount of damage. 
 You can even heal yourself! Though the worst thing about this game is its dialogue. Japanese and 
 German pilots say all kinds of dumb things in somewhat offensive accents. Japanese pilots will 
 shout SMOKE AND FIRE EVERYWHERE!!!! While Germans will scream stuff such as FEEL MY WRATH!!! Yes 
 the dialouge is cheesy as all get out. But if you can get past all the talking and politically-incorrect 
 accents, this is a really fun game with engaging missions and stylish graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I know many people don't like this game, but this turned out to be my first 360 game and I actually 
 liked it. The game can get tough later on and sometimes repetitive, but its actually a good game. 
 Being the top ace in the skies is quite fun shooting down enemy planes is just down right fun. 
 I just think so many people are big babies and all I gotta say is that no game is perfect. You 
 will always find something you don't like and some errors that slow you down. It is fun to actually 
 see how WWII was such a hell in the skies and you can learn so much about WWII. Seeing how the 
 aces lived can be an exciting thing to actually learn about for this piece of time because they 
 didn't have it any easier than the people on the ground. I gave this a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf505
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 29, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  I realize that i am writing this review as someone that has alot of flight simulator experience 
 on the pc. As such, I tried to remind myself continually that this game was meant to be more arcade 
 like, and less realistic. I can't help but wish however, that more realistic components had been 
 added to the gameplay. I understand that playing on a console, you can't possibly include all the 
 control aspects of a real world war 2 fighter. that being said, the game could have made flight 
 feel more realistic, and it certainly could have done more with the air to air combat. Dog fights 
 in world war 2 required strategy, intricate manuveurs, and endurance. In this game, if you only 
 shoot down 10 opponents in a 3 minute period, you were slacking. There is no fuel gauge, no ammo 
 limit....
  
  The graphics are beautiful, but the gamplay itself gets monotanous after the first 2 or 3 missions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 18, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Ok so I will start by telling you its a fun game worth playing, and the multiplayer is pretty 
 good. Now I will rant and rave over what is wrong. First the P-51 Mustang is second classed to 
 a Spitfire. Dont get me wrong it was by far the second best plane of the war but the Mustang was 
 indeed the best. The stats were overwhelming stacked towards the spitfire, it was durable and almost 
 the most powerful plane in the game. The Mustangs had 6 .50 cal guns not 4. I deplored the fact 
 the Mustang was not better. No aerial plane game can be complete without a cockpit view so where 
 is it? If these issues where address the game may have been a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deaths_Vanguard
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 5, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels caught me when I was at work and it's actually quite adictive. It's a good game 
 for a laugh and to play it online I find it's really good. Especially dog fights etc. I don't want 
 to play it for too long however but I am always finding myself wanting to have a little bash.
 
  
  The story mode is fairly decent but I wouldn't cool it good. One thing I will give Gamespot is 
 the voice acting is quite terrible lol. Sometimes it does sound like there half asleep when saying 
 things and above all I have to say the seriously cheesey japanese voice acting on a mission where 
 you had to blow up there fleet is just too cheesey lol.
  
  Overall I say this game is good for online play, it's fun! you can get this game for &pound;15-20 
 so it is worth it for that price, not so much &pound;30 =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj729
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 5, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  The Plot: There isnt a complicated plot to this whole thing. World War II!!!!! And I think we 
 all know what happens at the end. You play an American Fighter pilot, sent to help the Allies during 
 the beginning of the war. You will be repeatedly called upon by the British and American Government 
 to fly dangerous missions against the Axis. However, you wont go through this ordeal on your own 
 you will have the support of your team of experienced fighter pilots. First, there is Joe the unlicensed 
 mechanic with a penchant for getting in trouble, and just as he is troublesome he can help you 
 out many a situation with his mechanical savvy. There is also Frank, the aggressor of the unit, 
 he is skilled at combat and not much else. Then, there is Tom, the intellectual leader and brains 
 of the group. You lead this squad of flyboys from to glory by flying missions essential to the 
 victory of the Allies.
  
  The Good: the game is perfect on the 360 because it is totally revolutionary. The images and graphics 
 are amazing and make it extremely fun to play.
  
  The Bad: EVERYTHING ELSE. While the gameplay itself is cool, every other aspect of the game feels 
 flawed or non-existent. The dialogue seems wrong. The story is completely boring. The fighting 
 is monotonous and gets very old, very quickly. While it has its moments this game is completely 
 wrong if you want an experience rather than a cool flight sim.
  
  Opinion: The fact that it is on the 360 makes you feel ok about it because it does look cool, but 
 that is all it has looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondshooter
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 4, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  OK. So, I heard of this game from one of my friends and he said it was pretty good. So I bought, 
 played it, and I thought it was OK. The single-player
  campaign is pretty fun while lasts, which isn't long. I beat the game in a couple of hours. But, 
 then there are two six-mission mini-campaigns. But, those aren't long either. The main thing that 
 makes the game so short is because combat is way too easy. Flying is fun and easy, and not at all 
 accurate. So, people who are looking for a flight-simulator, look elsewhere. (Try Combat Flight 
 Simulator 3, it fun and really good, if you're looking for a combat flight sim.) But, once all 
 the single-player is finished, the multiplayer is a blast. It will keep you at you're 360 for days. 
 The sound is pretty good, sound effects wise. The voice acting (and writing) of the enemies (and 
 occasionally friendlies) is awful. With lines like, Rising Sun, falling plane! it makes you wonder 
 if they paid the writers so little, that they intentionally wrote very bad material. The graphics 
 are good, really good actually, but they don't compensate for the bad writing and voice acting. 
 So, if you want a good multiplayer game, but not much in the way single-player, this is the game 
 for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game was great. Even after the story mission was completed, which was excelent by the way, 
 there were more missions to do in other areas of the game. Things like missions to unlock planes, 
 bombing missions, timed missions, one on one missions against the computer and loads of medals 
 to unlock which inturn increases your rank. Its not a hard game to learn and once you get the hang 
 of it you get hooked on completing the missions. I always loved flying games and this one is at 
 the top of my list for flying games. I enjoyed this game and i think you would too. Give it a try 
 and see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLSWITCH
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 6, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Blazing Angels is at first a decent game but then after a few missions it's quickly realized how 
 boring this game really is. Blazing Angels is a typical game in the WWII genre where the player 
 needs to fulfill such tasks such as destroying AA guns, assist fellow fighter pilots as their being 
 shot down by the enemy, you know the typical routine. The only thing that doesn't make this game 
 a living room coaster is it's online multiplayer. It's fun shooting down human players while doing 
 a loop a couple hundred feet above ground, and to be able to jam out on some co-op missions with 
 online buddies, but again it falls short as there hardly is any unlockables such as new mission 
 types or maps. Plus the achievements is near impossible to get. At least for me anyway. If anything 
 rent before you buy. If your looking for a quick aviation fix try out Blazing Angels. But don't 
 expect too much from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianTL5
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  In the first review I wrote for this game, I said I had been very disappointed in this game. Well, 
 enter the Old Spice Challenge. If you do not know about it, Microsoft has a challenge for games 
 to increase their gamerscore by 1500 points by April 22nd. I signed up and I started renting games 
 with easy achievements, and this was one of them.
  
  As I started to play the game again, i noticed that I had deleted my gamesave, so I had to start 
 over, which was fine. The single player campaign is pretty good, but not great. I played through 
 it and got all of the achievements. Some of the single player missions are very challenging and 
 will take several attempts before completing, and even more if you want to make ace rating. Rabaul 
 and Berlin are the two hardest maps, and anyone who can get through these maps with an ace rating 
 on their first attempt.... I salute you.
  
  After unlocking all of the achievements I decided to try some online play, which I had never done 
 previously; I had given up on the game before I played any online. The online play is very very 
 good. The online community may appear to be low, but there is usually a room or two open, and if 
 not, if you host, the room will fill pretty quickly.
  
  I sent the game back since it was a rental and went and bought it again. I've really enjoyed this 
 game. I feel I judged this game too quickly and I am glad that I gave it another chance.
  
  Bottom line: If you like flying games, you should like this, otherwise, go play Gears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raine1998
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels: Squadrons of World War II -X360 *scratch rant for Blazing Angels: Squadrons of 
 World War II*
  
  As I come to the completion of yet another game I picked up months after it's release only to realize 
 that it's second cousin is on it's way out shortly, I wondered to myself: who is buying these games 
 the moment their released? Once in a while I'm looking forward to something and I'll wait patiently 
 to scoop it up on that special day. But really, that is a blue moon moment. Call of Duty III was 
 one, Spiderman III will be one, but outside that, I HAVE to wait. I have close to 40 games, a lot 
 of them were for my children and I have never even seen them played. But who has 6-8hrs a day to 
 get all these AMAZING games and then finish them quick enough to get another, and another, and 
 another? There are so many bloody games out there that I'm sure I would enjoy, but honestly I do 
 enjoy breathing real air from time to time.
  
  Enough of my complaining. I love a good fight. In a War game, a flying sim game, a boxing or wrestling 
 game, most sports games, whatever the competition, whether it's AI or online. It is @ the root 
 of the human psyche to crave battle, and yearn for animalistic behaviour such as this. Blazing 
 Angels, though it muds itself with weak game-play, I found to be,................. fun. I enjoyed 
 learning to fly the older planes and going through situations as a pilot (for a change) that my 
 family went through for real about 65yrs ago. Yes, it could and should have been a whole lot better, 
 but I think it was a good start.
  
  I am hoping that they will have learned from their mistakes and listened to the rantings of lunatics 
 such as myself for their next installment due out in a few months; Blazing Angels: Secret Missions 
 , or something to that effect. In Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII, the planes look great but their 
 handling and amazing firepower is suspect (but fun!) . My favorite airborne games are from the Ace 
 Combat series on the PS2, where the Blazing Angels creators could have learned a lot. Speaking 
 directly from the game-play perspective and options that Ace offers it's players. [ I don't quiet 
 understand all this, let's just put it out on the next gen. counsel anyway without using the power 
 and creative abilities available . How many games still seem to be in the PS2 and Xbox format but 
 are only available on the X360 or PS3? To me, the lack of interest of a gaming company to put in 
 the effort needed to make games truly worthy of the system's requirements is a slap in the consumer's 
 face.]
  
  Did I enjoy Blazing Angels? Ya, overall, it was a fun game, but it lagged behind in many of the 
 basic categories that are supposed to be the cornerstone of next gen. gaming. Ace Combat on the 
 PS2 had better graphic's, better game-play, better sound effects, more game-play options (360d 
 camera movement while flying and a multi-camera angle and shot replay of your battle to name a 
 couple- I love that option and wish ALL sports games had it, EA Fight Night Round 3 comes to mind. 
 Imagine watching your stunning 11th round KO comeback in the championship fight as though you had 
 it on DVD: [freeze frame your critical KO punch, and check it out from all angles] ,oh ya baby,... 
 ya!!) and a much cooler narrative behind it all. Some scenes in B. A. are sweet, and battling ships 
 from a plane has always been a quiet delight of mine, plus I've been waiting to own a flight fighting 
 World War game with all the vintage fighter planes.
  
  The game is straight forward with no real surprises, but like I've said, I was entertained, I enjoyed 
 the time I spent playing the game, so for all that and $24 bucks, Blazing Angels is cool in my 
 book. I just would have been willing to spend $50 if it's creators had applied themselves to the 
 specifications that are available to them. Blood brother number 2............. out. The Bloodboys 
 Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  With fighter games you get one of three types of games. 1. Ultra-reaslitic total-simulations (Microsoft 
 Flightsim X)
  2. Under realistic arcade games (Over-G Fighter)
  3. Hybrid of 1 and 2. (Ace Combat)
  
  My personal favorite has always been that third one, I 
 recall playing the first Ace Combat game back on my old PS1 and being totally engulfed with love 
 for it. It was just an all around good experience. Games that target that hybrid have a hard job 
 ahead of them though. Trying to balance realism and gameplay in a good way is a tough job, because 
 there are so many areas to cover. Games like Over-G Fighter are the epitome of failing at this. 
 Trying to be realistic, but failing at several areas made it more like an arcade game than a combat 
 flight sim, just moving your screen until you see a orange box then hitting A before the enemy 
 can fire its own rocket at you made it abundantly clear that you can easily make a horrible game 
 without really realizing it until its a finished product.
  
  But back on topic. This game really puts us in a good place as a game. You have the environments 
 of WW2, which in my eyes is a no brainer situation, but I've always been a sucker for anything 
 of that era, movies and games included. Then you add the fairly easy to use navigation, and a bunch 
 of enemy airplanes ot take down. Make the game increasingly hard, but not because its impossible 
 to play and control your plane, but because the situations you find yourself in get tougher to 
 beat. A lot of people in every genre lose track of how to truly make a game progressively difficult. 
 (Take the Mortal Kombat games, first games were perfect, got harder in the right ways as you move 
 up. Later games they just made it more and more impossible as you moved up, with unblockable 20 
 hit combos)
  
  Gameplay: You really get a total control feel to this. You will have to work with it for a while 
 to get the target-camera system + flying where you want to go down. And you have to get past the 
 tutorial level to really get a feel for what the game has to offer, and will continue to offer 
 you as you progress through the campaign mode. [Gameplay: 8 of 10]
  
  Sound: Some of these planes machine gun fire just makes you want to ejaculate. Voice acting could 
 be done without all together. They tried to give each character his own personallity but ended 
 up going a little over the top with certian things. I could really do without Joe, the Southern 
 mechanic, and Frank the Scottish jackass. You're able to hear the enemy pilots cursing you for 
 shooting them and mocking you for being a yank. But they all speak english which is odd, and while 
 it does add a little bit, it takes away more than it gives. [Sound: 6 of 10]
  
  Graphcis: You get a very mediocre visual experience from this game on Xbox360 without a HDTV 1080i 
 setup and the component cables. I played it before setting it up, and then again after, and its 
 a huge different, it went from a 4 or 5 rating to a 7 easily, it was a very mind boggling jump 
 to be honest, not sure how it could look so crappy one second and then a simple setting later, 
 it looked like a truely next-gen title. Without HD-TV setup, expect a 5 of 10 on graphics, but 
 since I do run an HD setup... [Graphics: 7.5 of 10]
  
  Multiplayer: The game isn't that popular over Live, but you will find 2-3 people on here and there. 
 A few tips, use missiles a lot, and try not to dedicate too much time to online play until you've 
 beaten the campaign and have a lot of upgraded planes to pick from in order to compete, these guys 
 have some nice planes and will be able to out-turn you in loops to get the edge and get the shot 
 on you. It's a decent experience, but anytime you can spend 2-3 hours playing the game and get 
 into the top 100 on the leaderboard with as horrible scores as I have had, its not a good sign. 
 The people who do play the game are your hardcore fans of the game, who've unlocked everything, 
 and have gotten all of the achievements for it through the dashboard and such. So they will take 
 you down a lot more than you will them. If it had a bigger following you could add another point 
 or two to this... [Multiplayer: 5.5 of 10]
  
  The game is getting aged enough that you'll find it for cheap here and there, and used at your 
 local gamer store (GameCrazy, GameStop, FX) , this is reason enough to give it a shot. Again, don't 
 give this game a thumbs down or up until you've played through 2-3 missions, at leas tthrough the 
 tutorial, because the gameplay completely changes past that. And if you have access, definitely 
 play it on an High-Def setup, it makes a huge difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onetetsuok
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Real quick, lets take a look
  
  Controls: For flying an aircraft theyre pretty responsive. Itll take a little time figuring out 
 how to integrate the new target tracking feature into the fast-paced dogfights youll encounter.
 
  
  Graphics: Good graphics. However theres a lack of buildings/vehicles and other scenery on the 
 ground, reminiscent of old flight-sim games The sepia tone gives it an old-school feel. Planes 
 are pretty accurate looking.
  
  Story: Nothing special. Youll find yourself skipping cutscenes and heading straight back into 
 the repeditive action, level after level.
  
  Gameplay: Like I said, its repeditive. I was really looking forward to this games release and was 
 kinda disappointed in the overall lack of content. Plenty of authentic planes to choose from, fast 
 paced dogfights, especially on LIVE.
  
  What I dont want in a game: I dont want the same shoot all the targets to advance levels one 
 after another. Why shouldnt I get it?: Because monotonous gameplay just isnt your thing. Although 
 you love flyin a plane, you want to be able to explore the environment, fly outside the box 
 Blazing Angels simply wont let you. After the first 20 planes you shoot down, you start to lose 
 interest. 3 levels later, you lose consciousness. ZzzZzzZzz You probably already have it, but if 
 you dont, forget about it.
  
  ~Snake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  blazing angels is very similar to s. w. o. n. i actually wish it had some of the time effects and 
 zoom that swon had. but it does run smoother. it offers solid challenge and gameplay; the voiceovers 
 ar all well done, and the entire environment is immersive to say the least. on that note the sky 
 is breathtaking. on hd this game should be shown to friends and family to induce drooling.
  
  the control scheme could use some work, i'm a an ace combat kinda guy, and throttle control 
 was less than apt as far as placing. fire control and zeroing in on targets is so much fun i can 
 hardly describe it. the game is really only marred by a less than original idea, and the occasional 
 game difficulty spikes.
  
  but don't whine. the game has codes, if you must......
  
  that said b. a. is definitely worth a rental or if you find it on sale i spose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur543
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is got to be one of the first games for the 360 of this genre, so I had hopes that this would 
 succeed. Unfortunately, I was TERRIBLY, TERRIBLY wrong.
  
  First off, the visuals are okay, they barely scratch the next-gen surface , and it looks terrible 
 on Standard Def TVs. Fluctiouating lines scan screen often, and its extremely annoying and and 
 detracts from appreaciating the visuals.
  
  Gameplay is awfully repetitive, just shoot and dive is what you do. It varies from only bombing 
 sh*t, to a lame lock-on and fire criteria. Yes, its as boring as it sounds.
  
  Voice acting is just rubbish. Annoying accents that sometimes CHANGE during the game will distract 
 you. Sometimes, you'll just turn the voice volume off.
  
  Maybe they should (FOR THE LOVE OF GOD) change a few things, add more variety, and make it a little 
 more compelling to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lerbi
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I only have the demo but I've beaten the demo and I didn't get the pleasures of other games from 
 this game. It was a fun game for the first while then it just got really boring and I didn't have 
 the drive to play it. So if I was you I would rent it or download the demo but don't buy this game, 
 you would be getting mad at yourself for making such a foolish decision.
  
  Pros: Good graphics, gives you a somewhat real sense of flying planes, fun to fly around and land (in 
 my opinion.
  
  Cons: Way to hard to shoot down Germon pilots, because they're always dodging your shots, other 
 than flying and landing this game from me doesn't get a very good rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Blazing Angels was shockingly good, but the shock comes from the fact of how the game starts. The 
 tutorial level left many players hating the game, but if you stick with the game and get through 
 that training mission, it becomes one of the bestt WWII fighters you will play. Gameplay: 8/10
 
  
  The game's flying mechanics take a little getting used to, but once you learn how to use the camera 
 and throttle together, it becomes a enjoyable experience. The game's learning crave isn't the only 
 problem, however. The other would be that landing your fighter takes more work than it should, 
 and you never really figure out how to land because of the vague explaination on how-to.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The game's graphics take a slight leap above the last generation of systems, 
 just enough to give its players a nice looking next gen title. Still, some will find the graphic 
 to not be that impressive, considering the level of detail the Xbox 360 is showing off from games 
 now. On a side note, the game does look nice and slightly better in 1080i. Sound: 8/10
  
  The soundtrack of the game is limited, but the tracks are nice and long. The plane engines sound 
 amazing and the gunfire is pretty good. However, the voice actors in the game can get very annoying, 
 especially Joe, your co-pilot. The game also makes the Germans and Japanese rival pilots speak 
 in English, which takes away from more than it should.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  The game has over 40 planes to fly and each one can be upgraded and such. It also contains a long 
 campaign, spanning 18 missions long. However, while the game contains a online multiplayer, you 
 won't find any players surfing the game, except maybe on weekends when the pro fighters come on 
 for the occasionally dogfight. Plus, you can now find the game for $40.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  I semi-enjoyed this game's storyline, even though I found the fact that the Blazing Angels squadron 
 mysteriously being in every single major battle to be very cheesy in how the game introduces this. 
 Joe, your co-pilot, drags the story down since he tries to be the comedy relief nobody wanted. 
 Overall: 8.0/10.0
  
  This game is one of the sleeper hits for this year, but is overshadowed by other sleeper hits of 
 the year. I reccommend the game, but only to those looking for WWII air combat. Others need not 
 apply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starbase00
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the most frustrating game I've ever played. I got stuck on the mission flying through 
 the fjord. I could not get past it, now I can't go any further in the game. Very disappointing! 
 Its going back.
  
  Dont get me started on the time allotted to receive the Ace award for each mission. You have to 
 play darn near perfect just to get it.
  
  The graphics are awful, the voice acting is abysmal (even offensive at times) and there's not much 
 of anything redeeming about this game except for maybe the Ace duels but even those aren't that 
 exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tungsten88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  This game was almost there. Gameplay-Your standard flying around shooting everything or blowing 
 things up. The dogfights are fun at first, but it takes so many shots to bring something down that 
 many of the missions can become frustrating. The sheer number of enemies is also ridiculous. A 
 plane can't hold that much ammunition. Maybe 30 sec. of shooting time in a plane and thats it, 
 but in BA, shoot all you like for as long as you like whenever you like. Secondary weapons include 
 bombs, torpedoes, and rockets. The bombs and torpedoes are OK, but the rockets are horrendous. 
 Some of the missions also involve flying around geographical features and this can become frustrating 
 especially with a time limit.
  
  Graphics-The planes are nicely detailed but the ground troops and tanks are just terrible. There 
 isn't much in the way of terrain either.
  
  Sound-Explosions sound cheap and so do the machine guns. The voice acting is terrible with Germans 
 and Japanese pilots speaking English. There are subtitiles you know Ubisoft.
  
  Value- Again, just play for the achievements. The missions aren't worth a second glance and the 
 multiplayer is ho-hum.
  
  Closing: BA is like a barebones demo. With a little poish, this game could have been great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  This is got to be one of the first games for the 360 of this genre, so I had hopes that this would 
 succeed. Unfortunately, I was TERRIBLY, TERRIBLY wrong.
  
  First off, the visuals are okay, they barely scratch the next-gen surface , and it looks terrible 
 on Standard Def TVs. Fluctiouating lines scan screen often, and its extremely annoying and and 
 detracts from appreaciating the visuals.
  
  Gameplay is awfully repetitive, just shoot and dive is what you do. It varies from only bombing 
 sh*t, to a lame lock-on and fire criteria. Yes, its as boring as it sounds.
  
  Voice acting is just rubbish. Annoying accents that sometimes CHANGE during the game will distract 
 you. Sometimes, you'll just turn the voice volume off.
  
  Maybe they should (FOR THE LOVE OF GOD) change a few things, add more variety, and make it a little 
 more compelling to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandonh
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Its quite simple and doesn't need a great explanation. Blazing Angels is Horrible, not worth your 
 money even if you were a billionaire and it was half off. This game is fun for 15 minutes, then 
 it collects dust on your shelf. Nothing to the gameplay, no time or effort was put into it and 
 its very unrealistic.
  
  Now, this is on the xbox 360 so of course its gonna have good graphics, but I was expecting more, 
 a Next-Gen console can perform way better than this.
  
  Sound and voice acting is annoying and VERY VERY REPETITIVE! 2 minutes is what it takes before 
 every phrase is repeated.
  
  No attraction to this game what so ever. Multiplayer is dumb and campaign mode is boring. This 
 game is on the top 10 worst flight simulation games to ever be produced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargez117
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Alright, lets get this straight, this game is pretty damn historically accurate. Its got real battles 
 from World War II, and pretty good variety. There are a few things it lacks though: 1. Plot -- Its 
 got main characters, but there's no real connection between them. They're friends, and you always 
 get a smartass in your group. But it still lacks some major plot. It never explains why you're 
 there, or why the hell you jump from Brittan to Hawaii to Germany. It makes no sense. 2. GOOD Voices -- 
 I swear I could kill whoever did all the voices, and whoever wrote the script. They sound retarded 
 when they talk because they use incomplete sentences like: Not good, not good at all. Conversations 
 make no sense at all. A monkey communicates better than these guys. There are quite a few small 
 things like this that keep you from experiencing the game to the fullest.
  
  Some of the Levels are just plain boring. They are only a few minutes long, but they drag on forever. 
 Its just plain horrible.
  
  Quite a few things in the game worked quite well. Such as the graphics engines, which seems to 
 be where the designers at Ubisoft spent most of their time. There's great lighting, and greater 
 motion blur effects. The crosshair works alright, and it. I honestly don't think its possible to 
 paint a better picture. Detail on the planes is especially good. There's a great variety of planes, 
 and great missions, very intense missions too. They're really fun because the unit AI is awesome 
 too, not only do they know how to dodge fire, but they can do almost anything, and you can too, 
 which is a plus compared to most other flight simulators. The environments are fairly destructible, 
 and the controls are pretty tight.
  
  All in all, I say its a pretty good game, even though I would rent it first to see if you like 
 it, because I beat in in two or three sit downs. Some of them several hours though. I would recommend 
 it, but I have yet to try the multiplayer, so that might be a good reason to buy the game as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessi_dusen
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft pulls out a flight sim perfect for the arcades. Unfortunately arcades are a dying breed. 
 Here we have Ubis next entry into flight sims. This would have been a great game but it fell short 
 right around the time I was restricted to specific planes for each mission. Blazing angels is a 
 wonderful concept but needs a bit more freedom to really take off. Graphics: Beautiful to say the 
 least. The sun beams piercing the clouds, the sprawling city of Paris modeled to the point you 
 can fly down the streets, and the gorgeous ocean fights. All are present in this game. The models 
 for the planes are painstakingly modeled down to the rivets. The boats and vehicles are kind of 
 lack luster but nicely modeled. Effects for the planes exploding and flaming down are wonderful 
 but when you attack ground and sea targets you come up short. The boats exploding are rally simple 
 and when they sink they just kinda dissolve into the sea.. no real capsizing or rollover or even 
 breaking apart. Understandably this game was a multi generation game soo we have to expect a few 
 throw backs to stick around.
  
  Gameplay: Controls are easy to learn and the look at the target feature is really handy; which 
 lends this game its arcade qualities. The missions are strait forward and simply guided through 
 much like an arcade game. Realistic physics are not a strong point here either which adds even 
 more to the arcade feel. The four button heal me ups offered by your buddy joe make this a nice 
 game for flight sim beginners to get their wings. All this being said with the extra features and 
 ease of play makes this game a great rent. The extra modes add a little bit of replay value but 
 not enough to really make this an incredible find. The mini missions are quick and fun scenarios 
 but the wave attacks to get the plane bonuses get really old really quick.
  
  Sound: Nicely done and the voice acting is well done (cheesy as the dialog may be) . The only problem 
 I have is that the Japanese used the same in-flight voiceovers as the Germans. So at times you 
 find Japanese pilots who sound German and visa versa The music was average scored orchestration 
 with sometimes glitchy event triggers. The music cut out a few times when I triggered and event 
 too soon or when too much was happening.
  
  All in all its a fun weekend renter. Good graphics, easy gameplay, and quick to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COBRA_ALPHA22
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game i played a few times around and it was pretty straight forward and good dialogue, but 
 gameplay was better the only thing that really matters. They could of got rid of repairing in mid-flight 
 to add more to the realism. Flying the planes was really what i like getting used too. If anyone 
 likes a good challenge try to beat each level and rank Ace that includes the timer and planes/ships 
 or ground units you have to eliminate, it might be hard at first but once you get started it should 
 be pretty straight forward and fun.
  
  Overall this game is fun if you like WWII warplane fighter games. Crimson skies 2 sounds alot better 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbcosmicnut
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of flight sims. Right from Ace of Aces on my 8-bit Atari. Looking at the 
 package I thought that this might have a nice arcade flight sim that could be fun. It almost was.
 
  
  The first thing you notice is the simplified flight system for the joypad. This works ok, well 
 kind of. You would expect one stick to do pitch/roll and the other to do speed and yaw. In this 
 game one stick controls direction and the other speed and roll Direction? Most of the time this 
 system works but there are times, especially in dog fights where you end up turning at some weird 
 angle when all you wanted to do was roll left and pitch back. You can correct this with the roll 
 on the right analogue stick but in the heat of a dogfight it can get forgotten. The default camera 
 angle is not great and you seem to always end up with the nose in the air seconds from stall! I 
 know this is an arcade game but some sim hud features like an artificial horizon and an altimeter 
 would have been nice.
  
  Having said that, the controls are simple and the game itself fun. The missions are simple and 
 could have been randomly generated. Had they concentrated on this element then they would have 
 had a great game. However, they decided to have a plot. They decided you could only play as an 
 American character. Then they decided to have voice actors. Then they decided to have radio chatter 
 from the enemies.
  
  Oh dear.
  
  The problem with these elements is this. Its ever so slightly racist, its very simplistic and 
 as an Englishman I find it actually quite offensive in places.
  First lets talk about the voice actors. The Germen and Japanese enemies talk in broken English 
 for the most part. Its stereotypical, daft and plane annoying! Then there are the English allies, 
 again we have a stereotypical upper-class twit bad mouthing the yanks.
  On the early Europe missions, you spend most of your time helping the poor defenceless English 
 out of one situation after another. Once again America is single handedly winning the second world 
 war! Now Im the first to admit that the war could have gone very differently if the Americans 
 had not joined, but to make it seem like the entire Battle of Britain was won by a single American 
 squadron is a little tough to swallow. The planes that flew in that battle were flown by people 
 of many nations and backgrounds and to me this was an insult to their sacrifice. EA have done well 
 with their WWII shooters, it may be based around the American view of the war but was far less 
 patronising and not offensive. Ubisoft need to take a lesson from them. As for the training run 
 where you paper an English church!..
  
  Once you leave the European campaign this annoying element disappears as you play the yanks getting 
 other yanks out of trouble. However you still have the radio element, etc.
  
  At the end of the day, the game is fun. In some respects thats all that matters. However the voice 
 acting and plot ruin it. It would have been superb if you could have created a pilot and had missions 
 that differed depending on which nationality you choose. The engine is there but the game they 
 built around it is probably one of the worse I have.
  
  All I can say is that if you can find it cheap and can put up with the Allo Allo accents and the 
 were number 1! plot line, you could have some fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chamoen
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of bad Xbox 360 games out there, no question. But this isn't one of them. It's 
 not the best one either. But it can be a lot of fun!
  
  Most friends who come over see this game, and say Wow - great graphics ! While it looks at times 
 like Cybill Shepherd in Moonlighting (remember the fuzzy camera?) , it still is fairly smooth, and 
 looks quite good in HD.
  
  This is the only reasonable flying game for the 360 to date, so my review is biased. And this isn't 
 a flight sim game - just a simple, easy to play arcade style shooter. The co-op play is pretty 
 good, especially the historical battles.
  
  What I like about it? A few battles feel quite epic (though many planes in the sky are not interactive) , 
 the graphics are pretty slick, and it's generally fun as an arcade-style game!
  
  Negatives for this game? Strange controls at first, and silly ground bombing mechanics. And I won't 
 even mention the enemy dialog.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Fabulas enviroment designs; thrilling gameplay machanic; basic, yet addictive; BAD- missions 
 are pretty lame; camara lock on makes you crash and burn
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Blazing Angles puts you in the cockpitt of a WWII fighter plane which you can pick out of 20 odd, 
 the game is very addictive and intense, gets you drawn into the batlle more, what the disapointemt 
 in this game is, is the the missions, they aint that good, though the battles are the missions 
 aint, its like destroy that plane, or protect that building, things you dont want to do!
  
  GRAPHICS-
  There acculy very good, tho the 360 could do better, the enviroments aint half bad 
 and you get the feeling and look that your going fast when you press forward.
  
  SOUND-
  Decent voice acting and excerlant music making battles more intresting and deep
  
  WHY SHOULD 
 I BUY THIS GAME?.
  No WW fan, pane fan or war fan should'nt miss this oppotunaty to play a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeLdAmAsTa19
Rating: 2.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw the screens they actually looked descent, thinking to my self wow cool a Flying 
 game and its made by Ubisoft, add little diversty to my 360 libarey.... Boy was I wrong, there alot 
 of problems with this game, I dont really know how to say this it blows. Controls-You start off 
 your first mission learning controls ect, It's ok at first takes a while to get the hang of it, 
 when you do its still annoying. just to move around circle takes hours seem like to get it precise. 
 After your done you move on to mission -GAMEPLAY -wich are doubt most tedious morst repeative thing 
 you can do on anygame, you figure you can land get out of it and do dif objectives, but all you 
 do is shoot down planes! THATS IT! and its sucks. To make matters worse you have this really annoyin 
 test pilot talking to you with the most obnoxious southern accent, he alone makes this game unplayable 
 never mind every thing bad I just mentioned. Graphics let me say 360 is indeed a very power system 
 every games so far Ubisoft made this gen is no exception except for this game.... Graphics are 
 bad gamespot says there good rofl ok?! they looks like ps2 graphics! maybe if it was ps2 it would 
 be good its not dont kid your self, there very choppys the blur affects are horrible, plane modles 
 are bad the level desighnes are ok but the graphics just make it look like utter crap, def one 
 of the worst looking games on 360 besides Bomberman-act zero. Sound is good but like i said pretty 
 much all your gonna hear is that annoying **** face pilot through almost every damn mission so 
 the sound pretty much only good thing in the game. Story line- eh sucks i didnt beat the game by 
 the 3rd mission shut the game off and never played it again so i cant really give you b/s review 
 on it in all fairness . Anyways if you like WW11 or plane games whatever the ****ed there called 
 avoid this at all cost its not worth 60 dollars at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  I have played the Ace Combat Series on the PS2 the a long time, and everyone of those games have 
 been great, especially the newer ones. Well, when I got my Xbox 360 I looked into taking care of 
 my Flight Combat Fix so I could sell my PS2 games. Bought Blazing Angels, and within 30 to 40 minutes 
 of playing the game I was already wanting to get rid of it. The graphics are not what you would 
 think they would be on a Next-Gen system, and the gameplay is even worse. The controls just don' 
 t feel good and are hard to get comfortable with. Its a basic boring story, filled with simple 
 easy missions. I guess if you are new to Flight Combat games you might be able to get into this, 
 but if you are like me and have played the Ace Combat games on the PS2 you should grow sick of 
 it in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantomxr
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I made the mistake of picking up a copy of this game despite reading bad/middling reviews on the 
 basis that I love vintage military aircraft. This was not enough. In fact, it might have made it 
 worse.
  
  This game makes the mistake of trying to string together a limp storyline through many theatres 
 of war. You will fly as the same American pilot - with the few same American wingmen - in Europe, 
 Africa and the Pacific. While I don't think a storyline is necessary in a game of this type (what 
 greater story is there than World War 2?) , it is at least carried off with great presentation in 
 games like Heroes Of The Pacific. It is not here. It might have been better to merely cut the storyline 
 out and let us enjoy each conflict individually. Why was I not allowed to be a British pilot dogfighting 
 above London and an American pilot cutting his way through Zeros in the Pacific? How come these 
 same characters badly voice their way through every major air conflict of the war? Surely the title 
 said 'Squadrons' plural?
  
  The voice acting, mercifully, can be muted. Redneck Joe will immediately grate. And if you think 
 the put-on German accents are bad, just hold on for the Japanese. Several people in their reviews 
 mentioned that, actually, they just found this downright racist. I would've been happy to hear 
 actual German and Japanese lines. In fact, I would've been even more happy with radio silence.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, I knew this would be an arcade-style game rather than a simulation, but there is 
 just no challenge and no atmosphere here. It would've been great to genuinely feel like a dogfight 
 could've gone either way (if it wasn't for your ace skills) . You won't feel like part of an airforce; 
 it will be you versus the luftwaffe and you'll always win. The single-player missions, while diverse, 
 are disappointing. Another reviewer suggested that you should instead be able to set up the mission 
 much like you would a multiplayer game. This is not a bad idea at all. I did not get to try multiplayer 
 games as there was always so few players online.
  
  The graphics start off shaky, but London looks fantastically moody. It's also nice to see iconic 
 aircraft from all angles during dogfighting - the left trigger camera was a great idea, sadly wasted 
 in a game like this. The game also suffers from tearing, but would certainly be tolerable if the 
 rest of the game was up to scratch.
  
  I wish a developer would take all this into account, and perhaps spend 200+ hours playing my childhood 
 WW1 favourite Knights Of The Sky for inspiration, but I'm not so naive. Regardless, I took this 
 game back in the hope that one day someone will produce a far better effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I rented Blazing Angels because I used to love jet fighter games. It had been a long time since 
 I saw a good one. I actually played the over G fighters demo before this and realized why I don't 
 like these type of games anymore. But here I go again with Blazing Angels.
  
  I liked this initially. However, 5 minutes pass and I am already losing interest. The Graphics 
 are average at best and far from groundbreaking. The gameplay is horrid. The controls between the 
 planes you start out on and the planes you eventually get in are a minimal difference. All seem 
 to have roughly the same handle which is completely inaccurate. The sound seems average. The voices 
 over your radio are iritaing and the enemies mutter the same crap over and over again.
  
  The missions are so mundane, that it gets so boring. This game yet again shows me why I don't play 
 jet fighters anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't immediately impressed with this game, but as I explored the different offerings - the 
 arcade and ace mode and especially the online multiplayer on Live, it became clear that this was 
 really a great game. In my opinion, the Live community playing this game is the best one out there. 
 You can almost always find multiple people playing, and even find deathmatches of 8-12 in the middle 
 of the night, even though the game came out months ago. The players are friendly and considerate. 
 The online gameplay is so good people will be playing for a long time. Even people late to pick 
 up this game will be able to find much enjoyment and fellow players online. This game is in fact 
 so good online that my husband and I are seriously considering getting a second 360 and second 
 copy of Blazing Angels so we can both play online at the same time on our 2 TVs. No other game 
 up until now has made us even consider that.
  
  If the great online play isn't enough for you there are fun arcade and ace modes. As for the storyline, 
 it is interesting and generally enjoyable except for times when it is ridiculously hard. Don't 
 think the cheat codes will rescue you either - even with the cheat codes this game is hard. The 
 "camera" that zooms in on an enemy target is often not useful because often that target is not 
 your best target. If they are behind you then you waste valuable time turning your plane around 
 to face them when sometimes their plane is faster than yours anyway and it feels like a dog chasing 
 it's own tail. Don't rely too heavily on the targetting system.
  
  Acheivements are very difficult and will require you to beat the entire story mode before you even 
 earn your first one. If you're looking for easy or gradual (one each level) acheivements you will 
 not find them here.
  
  Some of the voice and narrative is annoying. The enemies may be described as offensively portrayed 
 but frankly in my opinion the American "hick" Joe is more offensive than any of them. I learned 
 to just tune out the chatter. This game is so INTENSE it's easy to get lost in what you're doing 
 and barely notice the talking.
  
  I had to be talked into trying this game by a friend of mine who became addicted, especially to 
 the online play. The World War II theme didn't interest me at all. But I am so glad I finally caved 
 in and tried it. Now it's one of my favorite 360 games. Definitely pick this one up unless you're 
 a strictly casual gamer who is put off by the difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeSuccar
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  A great buy if i do say, i love aircraft, and this game has a nice cinematic feel to it. The graphics 
 are good and it has a nice storyline, accurate to almost the last degree (except for the fact that 
 there were supposed to be no carriers at pearl harbor) Multiplayer is awesome, if there are enough 
 people, you could have a nice dogfight, and the game sitll has a while to go after just the Campagin 
 is finished, defeat aces for all planes go get paint jobs, and survive againsed 3 waves to upgrade 
 your plane :)
  
  Definitly a great buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  i actually picked this one up as an impulse buy, i had downloaded the demo and thought id probably 
 dig the full version ( for an arcade type flying game) . the graphics definately not up to par for 
 a next gen game... when you speed up it blurs bad. but other than that the cities all look good, 
 the water is good lookin too. but a few levels into the game the learning curve fell off the deep 
 end and now im stuck! i havent played it in a while but its worth hanging on to and going back 
 to beat it..... not really a $60 game id say but if you can snag it used somewhere for say $40 its 
 a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I havent seen that many game were you drive planes really easily!!! the graphic is pretty good 
 but could of been better!!! the game play is easy not that difficult. the sound is the best in 
 the game!!! and the value are not that good. so ya thuis game is worht playing!!! not buying but 
 rent it!! its pretty hard and fun at the same tm and i got stock on only one miision the rebaule 
 mission!!! i think everyone had this nproblem but keep trying and everntully u will get it!! rent 
 it first and its to short to buy it the achievmnet are pretty easy too!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaleGringo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  --- GAMEPLAY ---
  A fair enough game, with adequate controls. Takeoff and landing isn't overdone in this one, and 
 you won't get too frustrated with that aspect compared to other flight games that require a good 
 deal of precision for those two critical areas. There's a good mix of objectives in the SP campaign, 
 including taking pictures with your plane and fighting inside of the turrets of a B-17 Flying Fortress. 
 Objectives are varied, too, and in one particular case (Top Secret being the mission in question) 
 are frustratingly difficult. Damage and repair is done nicely; in most missions you can press left 
 on the D-Pad and enter a four button sequence to repair your plane to varying degrees.
  
  --- GRAPHICS ---
  I've liked WWII aircraft since back when I was an avid PC gamer. The planes 
 in BA: SoWWII are spot on, down to the correct emblems and painting style. Explosions are great, 
 as you can see different parts of the plane getting sheared off and trailing smoke. Now if they 
 could just do something about midair collisions and the clipping on your wings when you fly through 
 ledges or trees...
  
  --- SOUND ---
  I figure that Ubisoft will reuse their music at times, and the repeating theme music inside this 
 one eerily reminds me of the debriefing music in Rainbow Six 3, I believe. Piss poor voice acting 
 will especially grind on most people's nerves, especially in the aforementioned "Top Secret" campaign 
 mission. On the plus side, the planes all have their own distinct sounds, and the rumble of MGs 
 or cannons is believable. Fly-by sounds are done well, also.
  
  --- Value ---
  An 18 mission SP campaign, and two shorter 6 mission "Mini Campaigns" comprise most of this game. 
 Apart from that, you have 1 on 1 ace duels and a standalone arcade mode with 3 waves of 12 fighters 
 around the same calss as yours, with an opportunity to repair between waves. For WWII enthusiasts, 
 this one will be a particular bonus. For most other people, you probably could survive on a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Seeing how the 360 is seriously lacking in flight sim games, Ubisoft brings Blazing Angels: Squadrons 
 of WWII to the table. Obviously, the game takes place in World War II, and you'll fly some painstakingly 
 well-rendered versions of famous planes from the era. F4U Corsairs, Me-109s, Dauntlesses, Zeroes, 
 and the legendary P51-D Mustang are yours to play with. The controls are easily understood, with 
 throttle on the right stick and banking, climbing, and rolling on the left. The face buttons handle 
 a variety of functions, and the right trigger fires your guns while the left tracks enemy targets. 
 The tracking system is a fairly clever way to keep an eye on your target, but sometimes disorients 
 you. The A. I. for your enemies isn't very impressive, as you can easily down bogey after bogey 
 with a minimum of effort. Speaking of minimum effort, the game is pretty easy. The only times you'll 
 die are often instant deaths (hitting an obstacle, mountain, etc.) , so the missions aren't very 
 tense or particularly challenging. Not to say that Blazing Angels doesn't have some good points. 
 It looks gorgeous on any TV, but is jaw-dropping in HD. The arcade-style gameplay is simple fun, 
 and you do feel satisfied after dropping an entire squad of enemies by yourself. You get command 
 of three other pilots who can assist you in different ways, like clearing enemies, drawing fire, 
 and helping you repair your plane. The dogfights are often very large-scale and epic, especially 
 Pearl Harbor and D-Day, which give a good sense of scale. The knocks on this game are fairly minor, 
 like simple objectives and repetitive missions, but the thing that bugs me the most is the voice 
 acting. Your squadmates are tolerable, but hearing your enemies repeat the same handful of canned 
 lines in almost racist accents made me want to turn the sound off altogether. In addition, some 
 of the missions have vague or annoying objectives, like tracking down Germans in Africa during 
 a sandstorm or trying to navigate a winding fjord while enemies unload on you. That said, Blazing 
 Angels has it's flaws, but also its fun (especially team-based multiplayer) . If you like WWII or 
 flight games in general, this is a solid rental, but I wouldn't buy it unless it's used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  blazing angels definitely give you an aces point of view of the skies, but if thats not exactly 
 what you are looking for than, sadly, avoid this game. being equipped with weapons only suited 
 for wwII gets real old, real quick. planes really all seem to feel the same and after taking in 
 the initial excitement of soaring over anywhere from paris to pearl harbor, the game really gets 
 bland. decent online play but if you're not totally into being an ace pilot, will get old fast. 
 so all in all, if you are not a huge flight fan, this title isnt worth more than a rental. and 
 clearly, the writers for the german pilots must have never met a german in their life because their 
 comments are just plain stupid.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blade979
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 16, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game for all you (including me) amature flyers out there that just like to blow sh*t 
 up without worrying about the sim stuff. It is a little young audience geared, but thats what makes 
 it fun.... the simplicity. I really like the fact that you can just hose the hell outta the enemy 
 and not worry about ammunition. The best part is the fact you can take an extended 3rd person view 
 when honing in on the next obj. gives a very cinematic apperance. I just played the demo but was 
 left wanting more when it was done. Going to be renting this one for sure!! Rental=yes, buy=??? 
 Either way I enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoninEMS
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I was truly dissapointed by the plainness of it. Repairig your aircraft in mid-air has no story 
 basis and just adds more cheddar to the mix. The voice acting is just awful. You can beat the entire 
 arcade mode by leaning back on the throttle and keeping the plane in a spin. The enemies gain more 
 armour as they go up in level but gain no skill. It's more work than fun.
  
  The game is really cheap on Xbox Live Points with only 7 achievements. This is just downright laziness 
 on the designers side. They award medals in the game but could not be bothered creating the xbox 
 live achievments for it. (If you ant to develop for the 360 then provide the content to fit the 
 platform) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedro_alonso
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  If this is the first airplanes game that you try, you can find it fun to play.
  The graphics are very good and the story line its interesting.
  
  The game it's very easy 
 to play, there is not much trouble to complete every mission because you have many check points 
 to auto-save your progress. But if you want to be an "As" pilot, you have to pass the mission achiving 
 some records, that is the part when the game becomes challenging. For example you have to complete 
 mission in less than 10 minutes an destroy 20 airplanes in that time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buildversionIV
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of World War 2 games, especially the Call of Duty series. Blazing Angels however, 
 did little for me. I was really excited and looking forward to playing this game, but once I started 
 I realized it was really made for kids and only for kids. All the voices in the game are really 
 annoying and the characters all seam a little slow, the game play is repetitive and boring and 
 I was shocked at the level of the graphics, it was no where as good as it should have been.
  
  If you want a challenging game, with a good storyline, interesting characters and fun game 
 play, DON'T get Blazing Angels. The only time I would play this game again was if I needed one 
 more rental for my 5 pack at the video store and then was super bored with absolutely nothing else 
 to do over the weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrickieNL
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Just can't believe the bad rathings this game gets, I mean this game isn't perfect but it's entertaining. 
 I love war games and never played a flying game before, people who a just like me really need to 
 get BA. The graphics are ok and the gameplay works for me. The sounds are nice, only the voices 
 are horrible. The buildings around you can be destroyed when bombs or rockets are used. Although 
 monuments can't be destroyed. The game is quite short, i had it completed in a day of 3. The online 
 game mode expands it's life time a bit. Overall is BA a decend WWII flying game. It's truelly a 
 have to got game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, here is my story behind this game. In my local video rental store i had been waiting for 
 weeks for the one and only copy of Call of Duty 2 to come back. One day, it finally does. But that 
 same day out come Blazing Angels. So I pick them both up and look at them. Than i figure out im 
 a broke mofo and can only get one, so for some odd reason i take Blazing Angels with me. I get 
 home and put it in. I'm thinkin'yeah, time to shoot down krauts!", but first you have to go 
 through training which is homo. All you do is fly here, fly there, shoot this, shoot that, fly 
 here, and land. Than finally the campaign starts and after two levels I feel like i totaly smoked 
 2 bong worths. I feel tired and go to sleep. Next day, i give the game a nother chance by playing 
 it on Live. It's actually more fun becasue this time the planes can actually hit you, and more 
 times than not, you die! So, i call my video store and sayurm... yeah this game aint working, 
 can i return it?" they sayyes sir, and sorry for the inconvinience so you get two games for 
 5 days." im thinking HELL YEAH!!! NEVER PUT DOWN CALL OF DUTY AGAIN!!! NO DOUBT!!! i get to the 
 stoe and it aint there. To this day i have yet to see it return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This isn't as bad as I expected. That sounds bad, but as any hard core flight sim junky knows, 
 consoles don't do flight sims or even decent arcade style flying games. However, I was mildy surprised 
 by this game.
  
  Graphics are okay. They don't do anything to show off the XBox 360 power, but they aren't bad either.
 
  
  Sound is good. I like the radio chatter... especially your adversaries as you go in for a guns kill. 
 You know what they say..."there's no kill like a guns kill"!
  
  The level design is good, but sometimes the lenght of levels is inconsistent. Maybe the longer 
 ones were seen as the "boss" levels, I'm not sure. The fjord levels were fun, but a little too 
 much on the fantasy side.
  
  The flight physics were pretty decent. That was where this game impressed me. It really was more 
 like a flight sim in that resect.
  
  This is a fun game that is definitely not too long (about 7-8 hours) , and is worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  As the first flight game I have played for the 360, I wasn't sure of what to expect. Overall fun 
 for a while, but I am glad I rented it rather than bought it as the fun wore out pretty quick.
 
  
  Gameplay - Not bad, but not as good as it could have been. I know, realisitically, in WW2 you tracked 
 by your vision and wingmen, but that's not to much fun in a game, I really miss my radar. And until 
 you get some of the higher end planes, the enemy aces fly loops around you and it takes luck, not 
 skill to take them out.
  
  Graphics - The graphics were good, not spectacular, but few titles have pushed the 360 yet.
  
 
  Sound - The voice acting was funny to start, but after you had your crew together for a few missions, 
 it started getting old quick.
  
  Value - Rent it or wait for the price to drop. It's fun, but not for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Now I've only played the demo (thrice through, just to be sure) so my review may not be entirely 
 accurate. Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII is a flash of the pan flight sim set in World War II 
 (if you didn't already guess by the name) and it offers nothing more than mindless flying around 
 in old planes and shooing random targets.
  The graphics leave alot to be desired, the buildings do not look at all detailed (most are just 
 pasted over and over again) , the planes do not look that great and the frame rate is seriously 
 unstable (and I don't usually complain about frame rate because I played, and loved, Quake 4 and 
 it didn't bother me at all) .
  Sound on Blazing Angels doesn't live up to the genre's quality (the crashes are especially bad) 
 and the only descent sounds ar from the gunshots (which become way to frequent) .
  You do get very immersed in the game though, you feel like an RAF pilot in a, slightly unstable, 
 classic era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  World War II is probably the most overexposed conflict in historywell, at least if youre looking 
 at it from a gamers point of view. WWII shooters are a dime a dozen and it seems as if every few 
 weeks another one will pop up of the woodwork. I dont mind fighting the war virtually but cant 
 developers do something NEW? How about a WWII game based thats from a battlefield medic or surgeons 
 point of view? Instead of killing, instead you task is to save!
  
  Awhile Blazing Angels isnt that, at least its somewhat different from your average game. To date, 
 only 3 games on consoles are based on the WWII air battles (Heroes of the Pacific, Secret Weapons 
 Over Normandy and this) . Oddly enough both of the games kick Nazi ass... or does a fair job at least.
 
  
  The main campaign of Blazing Angels isnt that long at all, totaling to only 18 in all. Yeah, if 
 thats not bad enough, most of the early missions are incredibly short and easyyoull likely blaze 
 (pun intended!) through the first few levels without even recognizing it. Its only when the action 
 moves to Africa (you start off in England, defending it from Hitlers early bombing raids) that 
 the missions start to get interestingand longer.
  
  Flying through a sandstorm you can barely see through to locate enemy camps is one of the most 
 original missions, Ive played. Try to find the enemy camps by triangulating their radio signals 
 is fun and a welcome kill or be killed missions of most games. Dont get me wrong, most of the 
 game is all about shooting down planes, or blowing up tanks or sinking ships but amidst the general 
 destruction youll cause there are a few unique missions. Flying against the Japanese army during 
 the sneak attack of Pearl Harbor was exhilarating!
  
  Its not all a bed of roses though. For starters the game is way too easy. Once you get a certain 
 member of your team (as your progress youll gain teammates) , you can repair your plane anytime 
 you want (as long as the repair meter is full) . It doesnt matter how badly your plane is shot 
 up, with a few button presses, youll be good as new in no time. Ive failed missions in the game 
 tons of times, but most of them arent related to me dyingthey be mostly due to the mission objectives.
 
  
  The presentation sucks big time too. Youre never given a solid reason on why youre doing the 
 things youre doing and theres no interaction between the cast at all most of the times. You just 
 pick a mission, get a one or two line description the situation and then youre thrown into the 
 mix. Even the ingame radio chatter is mostly **** doing nothing to enhance the gameplay or even 
 fleshing out its non-existent story.
  
  Speaking of objectives, the game doesnt offer a myriad of them though. Its mostly defend so and 
 so from incoming bombers/ships/planes or take out that AAA/ship/plane or whatnot. Boring, eh? Once 
 in awhile therell be an enemy ace to challenge you but with your abilities, making short work 
 of the bugger should take no time at all. Dogfights are incredibly easy for some reason, like the 
 rest of the game. Once you get on the tail of an enemy, staying there as you nail them full of 
 rounds is easier than it should be. Sure, the AI will juke and roll and all that but its incredibly 
 easy to stay with them due to the ability to lock the camera onto your target.
  
  Apart from the kinda short campaign, theres a few other modes of play, Arcade and Dogfight and 
 a Mini Campaign mode thats unlocked later on. Arcade pits you against wave after wave of enemies, 
 kinda like the Afterburner (remember them?) games of old. To top things off, theres a timer ticking 
 down. Fail to eliminate the baddies before time over, you lose. Get shot down, you lose. Dogfight 
 pits you mano-a-mano against an enemy ace. Youll both be flying the same plane and its your job 
 to shoot him down. Of all the optional modes, this is my favourite one. You really need to outfly 
 and outshoot some of the aces in the mode and every single time I played the mode, win or lose, 
 my palms would be sweaty. Yup, it IS that intense. Even losing wasnt that much of a biggieif 
 you lose, youll likely retry again for some payback against the AI that shot you downHell I did.
 
  
  I never did get to try playing the game onlineI tried numerous times, but there were always an 
 insufficient number of players playing to get a really good feel of the multiplayer. So if youre 
 looking to heavily invest your time online, this is NOT the game for you.
  
  Blazing Angels runs at a smooth and steady frame rate most of the time. It does stutter when things 
 suddenly heat up but those hiccups generally disappear after a few seconds. Graphically, the game 
 doesnt really stand out. The buildings, planes and other stuff all are modeled nicely but its 
 the color palette that drags the game down. It seems all the colors of the game are muted for some 
 reason, to the extent that even explosions look lackluster. Take a long at the back of the box 
 and look at the screenshots if you dont believe me
  
  The game totally misses the mark with the sounds though. The irritating chatter from your dumbass 
 wingmates and the enemy will make you want to go deaf. Their lines repeat over and over, the lines 
 are TERRIBLY overacted and the accents for the germans and Japanese are stereotypical, bordering 
 on the offensive! The music doesnt do anything much either. All of the score is totally uninspired.
 
  
  If youre in desperate need of air combat for the Xbox360, then theres really no choice but to 
 get this game. Crimson Skies doesnt look as if its getting a sequel anytime soon and Namcos Ace 
 Combat series seems destined to bypass the 360 altogether. Just dont expect a very entertaining 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun flying game for a while. It's cool to play through the storyline and play 
 online, but after a while you'll get really tired of hearing your wingman say the same thing about 
 1000 times. I found myself wanting to shoot down my teamates more often than the actual enemy. 
 This game really shines through in LIVE play. However since so few people play it, it's almost 
 impossible to get a match up and running. So my advice is a rental at best, don't buy this game 
 unless you're a real die hard fan of flying games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels at first seems awesome, but after a while the fun dies out. The graphics are simply 
 wonderful, crisp and give WWII a gritty look. The gameplay is good and bad, its good because of 
 all the aircraft tricks, bad because the tricks may mess up (somehow, i don't know) . For example 
 let's say that I want to try a somersault and then I want to pull up to end it but I suddenly crash. 
 The gameplay features multiplayer games with a choice of aircraft but it gets you bored after two 
 or more dogfights. The single player is a bit strange, your partners are just like characters from 
 Star Fox ( a whiny repairman, a cocky character and a character that helps out.) You choose the 
 formation of your squad, have to option to make them attack a chosen enemy or defend you. The sound 
 is rich in value and one of the best I've ever heard. The music is all orchestral, no rock or anything 
 like that, its just "flight music". I'd rent it, because this game lacks fun and its achievements 
 are as difficult as Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  this ww2 fling game from ubisoft is somewhat of a dissapointment. not only is there bad voice acting 
 but the flying action is rather boring and frustrating at time. there were countless times where 
 i would be chasing an enemy airplane using the rather stupid flyby chase button and i find myself 
 crashing into the ground. theres not much good to say about this game other then the planes look 
 cool and some of the air to ground action is cool. other than that this game is a big negative. 
 and man do i mean nagative. anyone who wants a good flying game should pick any of the ace combat 
 games for ps2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhegs
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  O. K. I am going to post this from a really different perspective. I am a gamer dad of a 10 year 
 old gamer son. I look for titles that are fun for both of us to play together. That said Blazing 
 Angels fits the bill perfectly! 
  
  As I said above BA is fun in it's own right. The single player game is decent when judged on it 
 own merits! This game is no Crimson Skies, by any means. It does however deliver a very fun and 
 satisfying arcade WW2 flight combat experience. The graphics are very nice, especially on your 
 aircraft. There are some noticeable instances of redrawing on some of the larger cities like Paris 
 and London on my 780p TV, but all in all a great looking title. The audio on the other hand is 
 terrible! I found that I completely shut off the music and had to do my best to ignore all of the 
 voice work. 
  
  Where the game shines for me and my son though is in the multi-player! The co-op and dogfight modes 
 are alot of fun! Going in and playing through a mini mission or going against a massive wave of 
 enemy planes is really a lot of fun. We play split screen on a 52" and can only imaging how cool 
 it would be via system link where we didn't have to share the screen! One thing I don't understand 
 though is if you select Axis planes you still fly against Axis enemies! It is as if the developers 
 didn't feel comfortable allowing gamers to command a German or Japanese plane and shoot down and 
 American or Brit's?!? Go figure! 
  
  I would recommend BA overall, but not for it's single player game on it's own. The main campaign 
 can be played through in anywhere from 6-10 hours. Maybe a little longer to get higher scores to 
 unlock more planes. but, for me it was all about the co-op and multi-player aspects of the game! 
 If you have someone at home to play with or if you can find people on-line you will have a more 
 fulfilling experience.
  
  Also, I wouldn't feel right recommending this game at it's current $60 pricetag. If it were to 
 fall to the Burnout (far superior title IMHO) price of $40 or lower I would give it the nod and 
 a hearty thumbs-up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 27, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  One thing I need to start off with is this, The title says Squadrons of WWII. Right? Well You are 
 in a Squadron but thats it wheres the others? You get to play as a gunner on a bomber once, ONCE. 
 Is that the other Squadrons?
  
  Second I played this one having high hopes it would be good, well I did get some enjoyment out 
 of it but not much.
  
  Flying around in no biggie, but sometimes the camera is a little of track. The missions are some 
 what hard to accomplish but I did complete the game. Oh, wait I said I completed the game and it 
 didn't give me my achievement for game completion. I also unlocked all the planes and beat all 
 the aces and survived the 3 rounds and I still didn't get achievements. I was super mad that I 
 never received them and you would be too.
  
  The ice caverns mission was a bit crazy and too long and the mission over london where you need 
 to fend off more than 2 dozen planes all by yourself without the ability to fix yourself was insanely 
 difficult.
  
  The graphics were not next-gen, Sorry. This game has a better Online use than an offline one. It 
 kinda has that Crimson Skies fell to it, but with out the originality.
  
  This would be an OK renter, but Please save your money and DO NOT purchase this one.
  
  Thanks 
 for reading my review, please check out my others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels is an air-combat game from Ubisoft set during the World War II era, which we all 
 know and either love or hate. While the game has a couple nice touches they don't do much to help 
 the game rise above your typical aircraft or WWII-style game. 
  
  In Blazing Angels, you assume the role of the captain of several airplanes along with your three 
 wingmen-Tom, Frank and Joe. You and your wingmen will take part in several missions and dogfights 
 throughout the game's campaign, which is about 18 missions long and will take about twelve hours 
 to beat. While the game leaves a good first impression you'll eventually realize that there isn't 
 much to the game beyond shooting and bombing anything that's German or Japanese. Campaign has you 
 battle throughout many of the battles that highlighted WWII, including D-Day, Day of Infamy and 
 the bombing of Pearl Harbor (which happens to be my birthday) . 
  
  The action in Blazing Angels is done fairly well but most of the excitement you might get out of 
 it is sapped out due to the fact that theres practically no variety to the dogfights and other 
 missions. Just about every mission has you shoot down every possible German or Japanese plane in 
 sight and bomb the living crap out of ground resistance. There is the rare recon and maneuvering 
 missions but those only happen once or twice in the whole game. But the lack of action variety 
 isnt what kills the game, its the controls. While the games training makes the controls seem 
 simple at first they start to feel out of touch and very touchy. You use the left analog stick 
 to steer, the right to speed up and slow down, the right trigger to shoot and the left to activate 
 the follow camera. The follow camera has your plane sort of lock-on to either the closest or most 
 important target and when you turn your plane itll circle around it so you can keep a close eye 
 on it. The mechanic works alright at first but as you progress through the campaign itll start 
 to get quite annoying with the inverted controls. When you do follow a target using the follow 
 camera the camera will move to show the front, side or bottom of your plane as sort of a graphical 
 effect. 
  The problem with this is that while you control your plane with the follow camera youll feel like 
 you have little to no control and will wind up crashing, a lot. So, while the action is fun its 
 very monotonous and even though the follow camera was a nice idea it winds up making the game much 
 more frustrating and difficult. What makes the follow camera even worse is the games enemy AI, 
 which is horrible to say the least. If you follow an enemy with the follow camera theyll usually 
 just go around in circles trying to shake you off and will more than likely waste a good few minutes 
 just to shoot down. While your enemies will sometimes lay down a good amount of suppressive fire 
 on you this doesnt happen very often and you can always heal your plane with a button combo, which 
 does make the game seem very easy on some parts. 
  
  Speaking of your enemies, they have some of the worst and most racy voice-overs youll ever hear. 
 Youll hear your enemies say the same lines over and over more times than necessary and itll get 
 annoying almost instantly. The same goes for your allies, who have these cheesy, old-fashioned 
 country-like voices that are supposed to reflect New Yorker voices. Fortunately, the games sound 
 effects are done surprisingly well. Youll notice certain variations in how the planes and their 
 guns sound. Effects like explosions, planes zipping past you and the sound of bullets hitting the 
 ground are all done very nicely and distinctly to help immerse the gamer. On the other hand, the 
 music, while good, gets old considering the exact same music is used in every single level, even 
 though the menu music is very fitting and promises better.
  
  Now, since this is the Xbox 360 version of Blazing Angels that Im talking about youd probably 
 expect the game to have good graphics. In this respect, Blazing Angels on the 360 does look good; 
 the airplane models look nicely detailed and the particle effects like smoke, explosions and guns 
 blazing are used very effectively. Some of the environments look rather bland and rough but most 
 of them look fairly realistic and the destructibility helps give the game some extra points. However, 
 the framerate can get pretty disorienting and out-of-control due to the follow camera. Other than 
 that Blazing Angels on the 360 looks pretty good, just not as great as most of the 360 games like 
 Call of Duty 2.
  
  I did was hoping for Blazing Angels to deliver a solid experience that would suck me right in. 
 While the game did get me hooked it was mostly over the inexcusably frustrating follow camera that 
 was always the cause of many of my crash landings. The game does deliver solid graphics and good 
 sound effects but other than that and the ability for up to 16 people to join in dogfights over 
 Xbox Live there isnt much to the game and really isnt worth the current price tag, even if its 
 used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muteki_X
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game is more stripped down than Paris Hilton in a bikini contest. It is a moderately entertaining 
 game for the flight enthusiast, but will bore or frustrate anyone else.
  
  They left out even the basic staples of most flying games. The main campaign throws you into battle 
 with no option of what plane you want to fly or what armaments you want to equip, even after you 
 beat the game. You dont get a HUD so you never know how high you are or what speed youre going. 
 There is no map to let you know where you are in the stage. The only way you even know youre at 
 the border is when the computer takes control of your plane to turn you around, which, by the way, 
 is extremely annoying when youre trying to chase down your target. You cant even change your 
 view. You get the normal behind the plane view and a gun camera that is useful once you get the 
 hang of it, but also makes it much easier to smash into the ground or the side of a building. 
 
  
  So why would you want this game? They do have a nice lineup of flyable planes. The graphics are 
 pretty, but suffer from horrible tearing. The musical score is very nice. Also, the online function 
 is a pleasant breath of fresh air among flying games for consoles. That alone makes this game worth 
 playing. The action can be very exciting, and the attention they put into detail will make the 
 warbird fans hear flutter. When gunning down your prey, you can see flashes along your adversarys 
 plane for nearly every bullet that hits, just like real classic gun camera footage. When you do 
 finally strike that fatal blow, your targets plane disintegrates in a variety of ways. Its very 
 satisfying to see his wing break off while the rest of the plane spins down until erupting in a 
 fiery ball of flame upon impact. The explosion sound effects add to the thrill. 
  
  If you like flying games, particularly WWII, and youre satisfied with a low level of detail, then 
 I recommend you at least rent, if not buy, this game. I would not pay full price for it, but would 
 pick it up if I found it for cheap enough. Keep your expectations low. For anyone else, this game 
 is probably not for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Oh how i want to love this game, i spent 50 on it and it was a slight disappointment.
  The graphucs are amazing, in fact the a main thing stopping me from trading it in, the aircraft are 
 accurate and its fun.
  But the downers are that once the campaign is over with, its quite repetative. But saying that it 
 does provide a nice solid campaagn. It would have got a higher score if they had made it longer, and 
 more levels. And maybe some plane customization. Also, there were plans to put in a cockpit view, but 
 that was taken out so that was a bit of a disapointment. Also a major thing which spoils it are 
 the stupid cheesy voices from the enemy aircraft, it gets really irritating.
  But this game is not bad, it has some good graphics and a good campaign, and its pretty decent on 
 multiplayer and split screen to. If you wanted this game at announcement still get it, it is not 
 the worst game on 360 trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I was honestly impressed with this game. It wasn't to hard to get down and it's just fun. If you 
 are not a fan of ultra-realistic flight sims this is a good value. I read that someone said the 
 voice acting was offensive lol, I just found it hillarious. The japanese voice acting sucks really 
 bad but it's hillarious. The missions may be regular flight game missions but they are entertaining. 
 Another thing some people seem to be missing is the wide range of multiplayer and side single missions. 
 I mean I got this game a month or two ago, whenever it came out and I am still playing it. Its 
 a good buy, so buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAZZtheRED
Rating: 4
Date: May 3, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: THE worst that i have yet to see on the 360. You have to use to many buttons JUST TO 
 SHOT DOWN A PLANE!! But it does give a rewarding feeling, that is THE ONLY THING THAT IS REWARDING. 
 But i didn't get a chance for the online play so some people my feel different.
  
  Graphics: NO damageable environments, the planes aren't that bad, and the sky isn't bad neither.
 
  
  Sound: I couldn't take my partner talking to me, JUST Shut up and let me fly the plane and shot 
 down other planes. But the machine guns on your plane is the only thing that is good.
  
  Value: Not worth the $60 for the 360. IT is not even worth a rental.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I 
 THINK this could be so SO SO SO SO much better, Its not even that realistic to other flying games. 
 this is one disappointment for the 360. But if you like plane game then go rent it first, then 
 if you like, but i would recommend it for the xbox, so you don't wast your extra $10 for the 360 
 version. BUT those are my thoughts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 3
Date: May 2, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The Game is absolutely unplayable for more then 2minutes, in multiplayer mode it's not a test of 
 skill.. its a test of who stops circling 1st.. which could last along long time... almost as bad 
 as the 30min ranked games.. *grief*.. and the single player missions remind me more of a gamecube 
 game then a next gen 360 game!!! This game is even a low value to just rent let alone the poor 
 souls that bought this game first. Not exactly sure what the developers were thinking releasing 
 this aweful release.. Since ghost recon advanced warfighter was released the week previous, who 
 was responsible for this??? (rlsd the week after GRAW (thats prolly why) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothrj
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  when i started my first mission on that game, i just turned my 360 off and returned the game. that 
 game sucks soo hard. the flying is so gay on that game. battlefield 1942's airplanes own these 
 piece of crap squadrons on this game. when you do the turbo on the game the whole screen gets all 
 blurry, and your turbo only boosts you up like 1mph. so dumb. luckily i rented this game, then 
 if i had to pay $60 for this screwed up game it would have been a waste of money. one of the worst 
 games ubisoft has ever created. but thers GRAW on the other hand. *off playin GRAW* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg8131
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is very average. Nothing about this game stands out in my mind except the crappy stuff. 
 The graphics are not Next Gen. graphics and the gameplay is boring and repetitive. Sure, some of 
 the battles are realistic but then again alot of them are not. For example, one mission in France 
 has German anti-aircraft guns on the Eiffel Tower. Now thats just stupid. Airplanes back then didnt 
 shoot rockets either. The sound is bad too. The voiceovers are so cartoony that it takes away from 
 the realism. Another problem is that they say the same things all of the time. The online is horrible 
 too. Now, there is some good stuff in this game. One cool feature is the fact that you black out 
 when you take very sharp turns. The explosions of ships look great too. The game contains alot 
 of the air battles of WWII. They may not be realistic but they are still real battles. I dont reccommend 
 buying or even trying this game. It sucks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PorkNBeans
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  The game is very fun, the graphics ont he planes are very good looking but let's get passed that 
 since that is redundantly said about this game. The game is just outright fun, the missions do 
 get repetitive but they are not half bad, the voice acting is ok, not good, not bad just inbetween 
 & good enough to get you into the game a bit more than if their was no voice acting at all. The 
 multiplayer is where this really shines, it is pheomenal online & nonstop laughing and fun. If 
 you are looking for a simulator type flying game by now you know this is not the one for you & 
 the only thing really hurting this game is the lack of customizing your controls & no cockpit view 
 but believe me the controls are not that tough to get used to unless youa re lefty and then that 
 might be a task. 
  
  I only post this part because I seen many complaints on various forums of people mad at the sandstorm 
 level because you have to follow radio chatter & when it is clear you are on the right path. I 
 loved this mission, it was not that hard to figure out & the people who complained had or still 
 have no idea that some planes back then used a radio compass in bad visibility situations & it 
 allowed you to follow targets based on radio signals & this mission just added to the fun I was 
 already having. 
  
  Word to the wise, do not take my advise to whether you should rent, buy or avoid this game unless 
 you know these simple facts about myself & if they are similar to your likes then you will more 
 than likely share my enthusiastic approach to this game & find the fun I have found in it. 
  
  I love just having fun in a game, this game has that atmosphere as the controls are easy to 
 pick up (unless you are lefty and have issues steering with your left hand and controlling throttle 
 with your right) if you give it some time. I love the WWII era & more so the planes of that era, 
 I know a great deal about that era due to my love for it so many of the missions in this are fun 
 for me. I love almost any game with coop action or team based action & in my opinion no type of 
 game beats a flight game for squad action.
  
  The review of this game by Gamespot was not on mark so do not believe the 6.9 rating, it is better 
 than a 7 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettmduncan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong...... graphics look..... OK at best. Acting a little cheesy and the missions become 
 your "A" typical shoot or be shot, blow up the ground target, don't let that guy die sorta missions. 
 Come on Ubisoft, you guys pulled out better games than this. Ok ok..... I bought it..... but still..... let's 
 squeeze some more life out of those planes and interaction. I want stuff to be destroyed.....!!!!! 
 Anyone else would agree that they would dust off there PS2 and play the Air Force Delta series 
 in a heart beat over this. Maybe my Xbox Live experience will be better..... "off we go... into 
 the wild blue yonder"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGood13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  Initially I told myself that I was not going to purchase this game based on the review here on 
 Gamespot. Although I always come to Gamespot. com for game reviews I have noticed a trend in their 
 reviewers. The critics seem to be way to hard on most of the games that are reviewed.
  
  After downloading the demo from Live and hearing from other people that this game is a blast, I 
 decided to play it. I really enjoyed it. I agree that there could have been some more substance 
 to the missions, but overall I think this is a great game. If you are a fan of flight games and 
 arent too much of a realist than you will have fun playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels had potential but it wasnt quite what i expected. The campaign mode was fairly short. 
 I beat it in two days. The other game modes are multiplayer, Arcade mode, Mini Campaign, and Ace 
 Duel. Ace duel is where you fight an experienced pilot who has the same plane as you. This game 
 gets old pretty quick though because all you do is shoot down plane after plane. Anyway the planes 
 look pretty good, but when you look down towards the military camps and other environments, the 
 people and tanks and other vehicles look like they came out of a ps1 game. Ubisoft really let us 
 down on this one. This game is definitely not worth buying. Just rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echelon_One
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  I am a Pilot, I have a chance to fly in most of the american planes in the game.
  
  Ubi Soft Romania did a nice job of simplifying performance Ratios of the planes. and the Controlls 
 are orignal and responsive. They do take a little getting used to if your not a pilot. (HAHAHAHA 
 I have the advantage!!)
  
  WWII genre has been done to death for the most part. But Not the AIR COMBAT. This gives a fresh 
 look to battle to battles that you have seen before from games like Call of Duty and Metal of Honor.
 
  
  That being said the game really doesn't try to be anything more than just a turn and shoot flight 
 sim. The Battles are simplistic and repeatative in the single player. And in the end you really 
 don't feel like you have done anything with the credits start.
  
  The multiplayer is the high light of this game. Nothing is like having a DOGFIGHT with a real person. 
 Those who were hooked on Crimson Skies: High Road to Revenge for the Xbox will find themselves 
 right at home with the multiplayer. The Follow Camera on and off options is nice to have depending 
 on the game type. 
  
  Looking at the Tech in the game. I was left with feeling of "is this really a 360 game??" The Planes 
 and environments are nice and realistic, but nothing that has been done before and been done better. 
 Not only that but the game suffers from FRAME RATE issues. Which it trys to hide, every once in 
 a while you notice a scan line scroll up on the page as the game .
  The Worst part is the offensive voice acting. Even in the 1940's this game would be the polar opposite 
 of POLITICALLY CORRECT!!
  
  When all is said and done. Air plane Fanatics and SIM buffs will have the most fun. Strong Multiplayer 
 and Crappy single player means wait till a price drop for this set of Wings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  So I went to the local EB Games here and saw they were having a buy two used games, get one free 
 deal. I have a very high interest in playing flight games that take place during WWII. Just a personal 
 fave I guess. Anyway, I picked up this game as my freebie to see what to expect from Xbox 360 flight 
 games. I was hoping to see something innovative implemented with this one, but unfortunately, the 
 entire game just plays like it's stuck on autopilot. Here's the way it breaks down:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nice at times. At others, you can see textures breaking up, etc. The 
 sky itself is well done, and when the game is running smooth, the environments look pretty darn 
 good. Plane models are decent, and I liked the ability to see the actual bullets as they come out 
 of the guns on the plane. You have to look for them and it's a real small thing, but still I noticed.
 
  
  Sound: The sound here is pretty good UNTIL SOMEONE SPEAKS. I really can't remember a video game 
 character's voice that I found more annoying than the guy you meet on your first mission in the 
 game. The southern accent and speech is totally overblown and downright annoying. The word "Yank" 
 is used in the first mission at least 20 times, and it seriously gets old. Gun sounds are pretty 
 good on the other hand, and the impact sounds of the downed planes crashing to earth are well done 
 too. 
  
  Control: Middle of the road. At times, it's very unresponsive and at others, passable at best. 
 Probably could have done without the whole "rotate the thumbstick to start the engine" b. s. as 
 it's simply not needed. If you want to turn left, you can jam the thumbstick all the way left and 
 expect a two second delayed reaction time from the plane. An attempt at realism? Not really. Even 
 back then, if you shoved the stick of a real plane all the way left, you'd have an immediate response.
 
  
  Entertainment: Good idea: Allow the player to locate the objective by holding the left trigger. 
 Worst idea in a flying game EVER: Force the player to hold the left trigger and fly the plane using 
 the world's worst camera angle towards the target. In short, I really never bother with trying 
 to keep tracked on the target as usually it results in some kind of deadly maneuver on total accident. 
 The saddest thing is, everything you see in this game has been done fifty times. The only difference 
 between this game and Heroes of the Pacific on the original Box is the graphics and the target 
 tracking. The biggest downfall for every WWII flight game I've ever played is:
  
  1.) Timed missions.. WTF is up with that? In the war, if it took you 3 minutes and 10 seconds to 
 shoot down X amount of planes, then you just gave up and quit because you wanted to do it in under 
 3 minutes? 
  
  2.) Dive bombing/bombing period.. the targeting system for bombing ground targets sucks in every 
 WWII flying game. This one is no exception. The cursor can be right on the target and you'll miss, 
 or it can be totally off target and you'll nail it. Frustrating to say the least, especially when 
 this problem is compounded with problem number 1.
  
  In the game, you basically fly around, shoot the enemy fighters, and expect a ton of objectives 
 to be added mid mission. It's extremely stupid for a developer to think that they can "surprise" 
 a gamer by having something happen to complicate the mission. It's been done before people. If 
 you start a mission that says, "Fly from point A to point B", you just know that you are going 
 to be having objectives added, ranging from, "Stop the enemy bombers" to "Do this impossible task 
 in 30 seconds!". Basically, if you have played any other WWII flight games, you know what you're 
 getting into here. And if you're okay with that, you could come away from this one pretty happy. 
 However, if you want new and innovating, this game is not for you. I could recommend a rental, 
 but at $60, there's no way I could recommend a purchase. This one is as average as average can 
 get, and with no real replay value.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Pefect if you want FUN in a flying battle and shooter with some great graphics. I got tired of 
 the 'talking' all the time but, you can turn that off. It was easy to learn, not impossible to 
 get through the levels without making it a life committment. Not for the hard core gamer for sure. 
 But, if you're like me, have a life other than gaming but, NEED some great gaming from time to 
 time, this could be for you. If you like flying that is... NOT A GOOD SIMULATOR FOR SURE. But, 
 fun... The XBOX 360 graphics and the smooth gameplay was awesome. This may be a better rent than 
 purchase if you're a quick study. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Blazing angels has been noted to have a great multiplayer which pretty much saves the game, ill 
 have to disagree with that. First of all allmost noone plays on live, youll struggle to find good 
 games at any time of day, second the games are allmost allways uneven resulting in huge slaughter 
 games. I think the campaign is better then the multiplayer, the graphics look like mid to high 
 grade cureent consoles, and the voice acting is awful and like the gamespot review said, pretty 
 racist at times. There is a good selection of planes (41) and there fairly detailed. Another good 
 point is the sence of speed, you feel like your fflying fairly fast, which is nice. The controls 
 are fair, could be improved. Overall Blazing angels has some good and fun moments but there not 
 enough to make it a good game, if your desperate for a flight sim i would suggest renting this 
 game. Def. not worth the 59.99 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmk
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This is actually a good game. First ill talk about the graphics whish are very nice, air combat never 
 looked so good the grass, water, trees and the building are nice the planes look realistic. The only 
 problem with the graphics is the people which are like blocks even though you never really see 
 them every once and awhile you will be taking off and see them running around. Other than that it 
 has pretty good graphics. Okay next is gameplay which real good not to mention fun dogfignts sometimes 
 are a bit easy but that is okay it is a pretty long game. Controls take a little getting used to 
 but once you do it will be a piece of cake manuevering your plane around stuff."be care not run 
 into a building of faceplant into the water". Sound is good as far as the planes and environment 
 but the people just uhhh I didn't know german and japanese spoke english to each other in bad accents, and 
 joe the southern hick his voice gets annoying after awhile. Multiplayer is pretty good it has plenty 
 of gametypes but what really takes the cake for this game's multiplayer is that it has 16 player 
 co-op that is great. Overall this is a pretty good game with great graphics decent gameplay and 
 good multiplayer the controlls take some getting used too and the sound could use some this is 
 a game ill be playing for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game SUCKs!!! big time. the only thing about this game that is good is the graphics are sharp 
 is u got a good TV to play on. What is really dissapointing is the muti player. it's so unrealistic, 
 and there's not much to do with it. and u don't really feel the way u should player a flying game 
 with othere people. The game also has some SUPER lame voice. the german's sound like they are a 
 bunch of retards. but only good about it is the people talking are so fuuny b/c they all talk like 
 retards! I would rent this b/c this is a o. k game. but is not a game u would i want to keep. the 
 game does not teach u all the thing u need to so when ur ib the game it can get confusing. u game 
 get stuck on a level for a long time. This game does has it's moments, but overall it just sucks!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richiedbond
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I have a firm belief that I have played this game before, Ohh ya it is called every other flight 
 simulator ever made. Now don't get me wrong it is fun if you take it for what it is worth but take 
 it for what it is, an arcade game. I mean come on, I have R2D2 who fixes my plain in the air, I 
 have kamikaze wingman who flies off and shoots everything site and my other wing man is nothing 
 more then a brown nose, all he does is protect me. I will give the game this the dog fights are 
 good and the graphics are nice but overall I give it a nice try but do it right next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themc_7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game to come out and when it did I was very impressed with the graphics 
 and the over plane flying. I thought the first few levels were good to get you used to being in 
 the planes, after the first few levels I thought the game had lost it's pa-zaz. But in the last 
 10 missions i thought the game really started to pick up. There are some really fun levels where 
 you get to torpedo ships and fly some really sweet planes. The game presented a good enough challenge 
 that you were never bored. Every plane was different with special abilities, weapons and so on. 
 My only problem with this game was the radio chatter between the planes. German, american, japenese, 
 british, everyone, all the players had terrible little sayings that were just constantly repeated 
 throughout the levels, for example "German: I will make you like the chesse that is swiss" yes 
 we understand, swiss cheese is full of holes, but still it's just crap. Although it's a minor downside 
 to a very enjoyable game. A cool thing about this game is when you beat a level on a certain rank 
 you unlocked a new set of planes. These planes can be upgraded in arcade mode and give the "ace" 
 title in ace mode. Once you beat this game there is a fairly fun mini campaign. but i won't elaborate 
 on that. all in all i think it's a very good game especially if your into the ww2 games or flight 
 sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I love these kind of games. There are the moments in your life when you want to start the flight 
 simulator and take a learjet from Amsterdam to Stockholm, there is however that other moment when 
 you just want to let it all go, defy the rules of aviation and have a go at one another.
  
  The second one is this type of game. The first mission is the training day and this takes you through 
 the passes of flying a crate around the area. The yapping voice of the 'teacher' is somewhat irritating, 
 but you'll survive. And after a few initial tests a German just happens to fly by and you get to 
 shoot him down.
  
  This is the start of an arcade style like game. The game seems to focus more on the dogfighting 
 then on the actual flying simulations and i think that this is what will give popularity to this 
 game. It is certainly the reason why i like it.
  
  The graphics are excellent, especially the buildings. Some of the famous landmarks will be visible 
 in the game, and you can actually fly low enough to see the buildings in 3D (as well as crash into 
 them) .
  
  Yes, all in all these angels will be the right stuff for some action based gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Blazing Angels doesn't really stand out from other flight games that I have played. As a matter 
 of fact, it kind of takes a step back, and uses standard type gameplay. Simplistic controls are 
 also a part of this game. Right trigger to fire, left trigger to lock on, right stick to throttle, 
 and left stick to move. The missions have a variety of options, but not in each one themselves. 
 One mission will be take photos, another one will be to shoot stuff, another will be to defend, 
 etc, but no mission has 2 varieties built into each other. Lame. But, it's still a fun game for 
 the most part.
  
  Graphics:
  There are times the game looks amazing, and times the game looks generic. Maybe I need a better 
 tv? The game still looks great overall though. Nice level design and plane design, even though 
 both are pretty generic.
  
  Sound:
  The worst part about the game right here. The SFX are okay, the music can be good, but the voice 
 acting is just down-right terrible.
  
  Replay:
  If you are trying to get all Ace status, then you'll be playing each level multiple times. Other 
 than that, you might not ever touch a level again once you beat it. The multiplayer mode does put 
 some life into the game though.
  
  Overall:
  Not exactly what I was expecting from Ubisoft. I've been wanting this game for almost a year now, 
 and it's finally out, and it just wasn't what I expected. The next Crimson Skies? Nah. A good, 
 generic flight shooter? Yeah. I still think it's worth playing though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Had much higher hopes for this flying game then actually shells out. Although the planes look nice 
 as does the terrian, it is far too simplistic. Physics are too arcade like. This is the reason 
 I have only bought PC flying games in the past as console versions just seem to be to "dumbed down".
 
  Why can't these game designers make a good flying game on any console? Maybe its the controls 
 or maybe their targeted audience. This game won't win over anyone that is even nearly a fan of 
 flight sims. Even the missions seem a bit cheap. You are given the build up that it is going to 
 be a "historical" mission only to be let down by the arcade feel of the whole portrayal. Might 
 as well have made it a side scroller. Would have been about as much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjim350
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is probably the hardest games onthe 360 so far but i realy love the xbox live even though 
 its hard to find pepl to play with. the hardest level is probably rabaul base you have to destroy 
 a whole japanese base without letting your bombers get destroyed and planes keep coming out thts 
 probly the hardest part of the game hope i dident spoil the game. theres alot of multiplayer modes 
 if you can find pepl 2 ply wit in cluding capture the base u have to land on the base for a few 
 sconds to capture the base i thought it was interesting . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  To start out I think gamespot was harsh and somewhat to subjective in grading this game. They fell 
 short of objectively using the scoring system they put in place. This game is definately not a 
 9 but deserves better than a 6.9. At least a 7.5 if not an 8.
  
  The game playes very well, but is a little short and uses the 360 acheivements to extend the play, 
 not by using content. In that i am dissapointed. It is more realistic than lets say crimson skies, 
 but not too realistic to hinder fun. Like limited ammo and fuel. 
  
  Some annoying aspects of the game are not being able to skip cut scenes, this is one of my biggest 
 annoyances in a game. When you are at a tough spot, and need to replay it several times and are 
 forced to watch the same cut scene over and over. 
  
  I would say this game is a buy, or at least rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredg
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 
 O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O R R R R R R R R R R R R R 
 R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R 
 R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I N N N 
 N N N N N N N N G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G G ... exciting for 3 minutes... graphics 
 are amazing but this thing is a snoozer after 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  PROS: Great visuals. You can tell the developers really took command of the plane aspect. The Planes 
 look amazing! New feture that I really liked was the lock on feature. While holding onto the L 
 trigger the camera will pan around your plane as it follows your target. Plus the playing the game 
 on X-Box live is really fun. That makes the game worth while!
  
  CONS: It seems like all the developer really took pride in was the planes! Everything else looks 
 great from a far, but when you fly closer, things really are not that detailed! Like smoke, Tanks, 
 Boats, Exposions. Voice acting is BAAAAAAAAAAAD and repetitive! Everyone says the same thing over 
 and over again. Did I mention the acting was bad? Single player missions are pretty much the same 
 thing... different color. You start the mission shooting some planes... then you have to shoot ground 
 units... then finish off the planes. Rinse and repeat.... every level it seems.
  
  RENT, BUY OR FORGET ABOUT IT: Yea you should rent it. Play it online for a bit. Take it back and 
 get something else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasaHova
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Ok so when I 1st heard about this game I was so hype, I mean come on this gives you the chance 
 to play during Pearl Harbor, fly missions over England, and buzz and fly through the tower of 320 
 meters (Eiffel Tower) .
  
  Well that is what you can do, and this game would have been great if it was released on the N64. 
 You are only offered on camera view. I think that an in cockpit view would have given it some points 
 toward value. The controls are very cut and dry. They set up a great story about the different 
 flyers and how they have various skills. You don't get and real (any) character depth. You play 
 the captain, yet you don't even get to really see your self. 
  
  The missions get sort of redundant. The multiplayer is the only reason that I feel that it may 
 be something to pick up one day. The learning curve is like noting. I suck at video games and I 
 picked it up in like no time. This is gonna be one of those games that are featured on the show 
 Judgment Day during the bargain bin segment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocAfrica
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  On some levels Blazing Angels works great. Having 3 permanent wing men with different ablities 
 is a great idea. I tend to use Joe a lot, since I get shot up quite a bit. The targeting cursor 
 is literally hit or miss. When you fly in certain color skies, the cursor can suddenly dissapear. 
 Most of the time it took me at least 4 tries to complete a mission. The Rabaul mission is very 
 tough for some reason. The online part of the game works ok, once you can find enough people online 
 for a mission. I might have been nice to have an option to customize your wing decorations and 
 have a website with multiplayer squadrons. The multiplayer leader board does notseem to work yet. 
 Some of the aircraft shown in the manual are incorrect. Some of the game goals are somewhat unrealistic. 
 In the Midway battle you have to destroy the entire Japanese fleet, not just the main carriers.
 
  So far this is the only WW2 flying game for Xbox 360. So for being the only game of this type 
 it works. You should have more fun playing online.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, I bought it when it first came out and have not been able to stop playing, 
 it has several great multiplayer modes that work great on Xbox Live and on the console as well. 
 The graphics are also very good and the action plays out over some very detailed enviroment that 
 include real locations and land marks, I like the paris level the best. The frame rate is also 
 very good and captures the fast pace action very well, and the speed of the action is also portrayed 
 in a very realistic way that really gives the game a fast pace feel, and the explosions in the 
 game are also really cool looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this game and i cant put the controller down. I thought that i would have been tired of 
 playing the game by now but i just coninue to enjoy it. I dont know how this game is getting such 
 low ratings but i think im in love. This is another hit in ubisofts books. I can admit that the 
 grapics arent superior like ES: O but the the view is great the water effects are great. I think 
 they should hae seprt more time making the planes look a little better the edges are kinda rough 
 and also the flying at times there will be a line going through the screen. This i thik is a must 
 have for all the people who are tired of the continuous releases of fps or a flight plan. If u 
 love online and like to hae fun this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was supposeable gonna be one of the best games on the 360 and it failed misarabley.... This 
 game is everywhere and is so repetitive but overall there is fun in this game... This game isn't 
 your regular Spy vs. Spy game, this game actually has stuff to make it a great game, but the lazy 
 people who made it didnt feel like putting the extra 5 minutes into the work and so they fell misarabley. 
 And for there lousy work i give them a lousy grade... Common try harder!!
  
  8.4/10
  
  Sorry just wasnt what i wanted outta a shooter game... Better luck next time!! Oh wait there is no 
 next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spuckett79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Having never really played other combat flight sim games other then Crimson Skies, this was a nice 
 change of pace.
  
  I can't say that Blazing Angels would hold up for those hard-core flight sim'ers but for the casual 
 gamer it's an awesome, very visual pleasing and just an overall fun game.
  
  The multiplayer missions shine and the fun continues with the various single player options like 
 the campaign mode. There's a nice mix of dog fighting, bombing runs and seek and destroy missions 
 to keep you entertained.
  
  If your looking for a beginner to intermediate combat flight game, I feel this is your best option 
 on the 360 at this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cygnusloop99
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  If you like flight sims this is worth it. If you dont, then dont waste your money whine about 
 it like everyone else. This isn't a bad game, but it appeals to a certain kind of genre. Blazing 
 angels has a challenging single player story line that takes you all over the events of WWII. In 
 unranked multiplayer matches there are plenty of variations to keep any fighter jockey entertained 
 for a long time. In ranked matches, large maps create lots of space for classic dogfights. And 
 finally for a flight sim this game has descent graphics. If you know planes by sight you can pick 
 out different types from a fair distance and on the ground buildings aren't just a flat picture 
 on and endless plane. For once I have something to dodge when I hit the deck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Another boring campaign game. 
  
  For once can we just get rid of the frigging boring campaign games and just have open ended games 
 where you can play the game the way you want to !!!?? This would of been fun for me if I could 
 of played against the computer on a map of my choosing against the number of opponents of my choosing 
 , with any plane I want and with or without a time limit. And what about a game for once where 
 you don't have to unlock anything, I paid for the entire game I shouldn't be forced to do anthing 
 to get the entire functionality. 
  
  To sum up, offline on this game is boring but playing on Xbox live where you can set the parameters 
 you want is what makes this game enjoyable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingboywonder
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  played the demo and graphics are realy not next gen and sometimes the game gets kinda dark and 
 the lighting is realy bad, controlls are a plus its very easy to get into the game, and play the 
 voce acting is pretty bad and some times give me a back pain lol. you are a ww2 flyer and you are 
 just shooting stuff from the air kinda boaring after a bit you can use speed to boost u up and 
 go faster to ur objective but it feels slow i recomend down -loading the demo or renting it if 
 u buy this and dont like it its kinda ur falt so 
  
  controlls very easy 
  
  graphics realy not next gen
  
  gameplay boaring
  
  sound ok
  
  value not worth 60$ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmermel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Goods- Gameplay is smooth. The on -- line is fun. AI is just right.
  
  Bads- Every time someone talks, they use a frazethat they've already used before. Also, there are 
 some parts of the flying that is hard to control.
  
  Overall this is a nice game. If you were a fan of Crimson Skies ( I was) you'll find this even 
 more intresting than if you weren't. The majority of the fun comes on-line. If you didn't enjoy 
 Crimson Skies, or never played it, I suggest that you should maybe consider renting this game. This 
 is a revolutionary game in WWII fflying games. 
  And to make the limit of 100 words i have to write this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I wasn't much of a fan of the Crimson Skies game on X-Box, and Secret Weapons Over Normandy wasn't 
 very hot. I figured that with the 360 why not flight sim one more chance, so I brang this home yesterday 
 and was anxious to play it. When I finally got the chance to, I only played the training mission.
 
  The campaign can be frustrating even on the training mission, because the radio guy is annoying. At 
 least, you can start over from your last checkpoint if you crash. When I got the chance to play 
 it on Live, I figured out something. THIS IS WHERE IT'S AT! The only let down on Live is that you 
 don't know who's talking.
  The graphics are not exactly Ghost Recon or Oblivion, but they are still well done. The sound is 
 pretty good, but the voice overs can be annoying and repettitive.
  I don't know why people hate this game so much, because in the end it's just a boat load of fun. If 
 you're not looking for a sim, rather an arcade then maybe this isn't for you. I believe you get 
 the best of sim and arcade in here, but I wouldn't want to get any of you pissed.
  In conclusion, there is no reason to hate this game. It's a very good flight sim. Just so I don't 
 make you "waste" your money, rent it. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Admittedly, I've only just spent about 3 hours with this game. I'm a huge fan of games like this 
 and was really hoping that it was going to something much needed on the bxox360.... a "must have" 
 dogfighter. I didn't quite feel that after my first impression with this game, but...
  
  Change is good, right?? The flight control in this game is different than what I may be used to, 
 after playing with it a while I'm frustrated enough with the interface to be challenged enough 
 to improve with it. Your throttle function is assigned to the right thumbstick instead of being 
 mapped to a button. That's a switch up from games like Crimson Skies and Star Wars : Rogue Squadron 
 series games. 
  
  What I've played of the campaign (and not much) had a decent presentation but I can see where the 
 official reviewers knocked the voice-overs. 
  
  If you have HDTV and Surround sound, you'll be treated with some pretty nice looking game settings 
 and sound, but this version seems like it has been held back from it's true potential because it 
 appears on the original xbox as well making it feel like a port or a rehash even if it's a new 
 release. If you compare the difference in say a game like Burnout Revenge between Xbox and X360, 
 you'll no doubt see a MAJOR graphics difference. Not so much with Blazing Angels. 
  
  Multi-player offers some opportunity for replay value, depth of gameplay and an overall positive 
 experience with this game. I see this game having online legs long enough to carry the gaming community 
 through summer's release dryspell, but once stronger titles start coming out down the road I foresee 
 this game getting lost in the mix, ultimately ending up in bargain bins at video game retailers 
 near you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgavery
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  it deserves at least a 7.5. some of the battles are awesome displays of power. it's an arcade game, 
 so we have to wait for Over G to come out for our sim, but this game is fun. online, it's nonstop 
 co-op battling, and everyone seems to really like the game. you really have to cooperate too win 
 the coop campaign missions. the graphics are basically xbox1 graphics with twice as many objects 
 on screen at once. which, on a 60 inch LCD sony, it's not difficult to stomach at all. however 
 the lighting effects are awesome. you feel like you are watching the only good scene of the movie 
 "pearl harbor" on many occasions. The chaos of WW2 air warfare is very well depicted in this game. 
 it is very furious and very random. that's not to say it's realistic, however it's the atmosphere 
 and effects that create this feeling while playing.
  
  on a negative note: the smoke that rises from ground or sea objects moves into the air WAY too 
 fast. it should be moving up at a far slower pace. when you see plumes of smoke rising at that 
 rate it creates a feeling of "adrenaline" and speeds up the gameplay intensity levels. so i can 
 understand that developers chose to do this. but if you want a more DRAMATIC effect, make the smoke 
 move slowly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since the DEMO came out a couple days ago. This game is very difficult 
 to reccomend for the price that they are asking for it. The demo I thought had a few things in 
 the that I was expecting to see improved... but they are not. In air explosions are not there and 
 the graphics are wishy washy for concidering to be NEX-GEN technology. The game is good though, 
 don't take this the wrong way. The game if it were priced at $35-$40 would be acceptional. I was 
 expecting alot more from the full version, but I am let down. The other thing I have come to like 
 from playing games on the 360 is the POINT SYSTEM. This game has very few objectives to earn from 
 stage to stage. If you can hold out till this game becomes a greatest hit or discounted $30... then 
 that is the best time to get it. UBISOFT should have took alot longer to make this one and perfect 
 it.
  
  All in all it is ok. It is not the greatest... but it is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linardball
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for quite a while, considering there are barely any good dogfighting 
 games out there. The last good one was secret weapons over normandy, and that was a while ago. 
 However, finally Blazing Angels has come out and in my opinion it is pretty good.
  
  First off I will start off saying if you are looking for a game to show off the graphics of your 
 new 360 this is not the game. The graphics are good but there not that much above games like heroes 
 of the pacific. 
  
  However, the rest of the game is much better. The controls feel natural and are pretty easy to 
 use. The gameplay is very good and I feel I have control the whole time. The music is pretty good, 
 but the voice acting.... well not so much.
  
  The real reason this game is so good though is the multiplayer. It is easy to set up a room, get 
 the game started quickly, and start playing. The play online is awesome (as long as your playing 
 ranked) and there is not even a sign of lag at all. 
  
  I have been waiting for a good dogfighting game for a while, and since this is the only one on 
 the 360, my opinion may be a little on the overly optimistic side. That being said this is a must 
 have for fans of dogfighting, and even if your not definitely check it out.
  
  Overall I pretty happy with my choice of Blazing Angels over Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradjust45
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  they just took this game right from crison skies. i bought this game yesterday because i loved 
 crimsion skies and the graphics just looked like an xbox game!! this is the 360 we are talking 
 about and i was expecting a lot more from the game. i have to admit it has a good story line but 
 the gameplay and and levels are just boring. i am now up to the 5th level and it looks just like 
 i was playing crision skies becasue the levels look too much simular. Also the flying controls could 
 be better because they did not do what crimsion skies did with the joy stick. u have to press x 
 to do a flip!!! xbox live was one of the best parts of the game. this is because u get to dogfight 
 with people all over the wolrd and i love that. thanks for your time 
  bradjust45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsaw619
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  online modes are really where you will get the most out of this game, no replay value really on 
 the single player modes, once is enough. The controls can be frustrating at times specifically 
 with the targeting system, seems a little blunt and could have been used better. Graphics are not 
 really up to par with the 360 capabilities, but the gameplay can still be very addicting and is 
 definitely worth renting at least for the online aspect. If you were into the Crimson Skies multiplayer, 
 I'd say give Blazing Angels a shot.
  
  PS: this is not a fps, but nice try though 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
