-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blazing Angels 2: Secret Missions of WWII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/blazingangels2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The plethora of upgrades creates a meaningful sense of progression.
 Lots of over-the-top technological toys.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer servers feel mostly barren, making it tough to enjoy the game's wide collection of modes.
 The game a little too easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 391 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Romania
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blazing Angels 2 is a clear improvement over the previous game, though history buffs will probably 
 hate the game's fictional missions. 

  Blazing Angels 2 is a fairly straightforward mission-based flight game set against the backdrop 
 of World War II, much like its predecessor was. But instead of sticking to the facts like the first 
 game tried to do, the sequel heads off into that not-so-lofty "what if?" territory that World War 
 II-themed games eventually seem to get to, where Nazis are either resurrecting dead humans and 
 making horrific zombies, or building huge Tesla coils and prototypical laser cannons and other 
 then-impossible technology. This game goes for the latter, giving you a bunch of prototype technology 
 to fly and fight against, some of which was just out of reach back in the 1940s. At the same time, 
 a handful of improvements make Blazing Angels 2 a better game than the previous release, though 
 some spotty difficulty progression makes the single-player a little uneven.  

           Some missions require you to fly very, very low.      

  The story and characters from 
 the first game have been tossed out, though the basics are the same. You play as Captain Robinson, 
 and you quickly hook up with some wingmen to form an elite squadron that gets into the places that 
 other, lesser pilots couldn't touch. Your team gets involved in some hairy scenarios as you track 
 down a German special weapons division that's turning out a bunch of new technology vital to the 
 fight. So along with protecting key civilian targets in major American cities and bombing bases, 
 you'll also have missions where you have to take out airfields, then land to steal prototype planes 
 and escape. You'll also guard escaping trains, shoot missiles out of the sky, and even take on 
 huge bosslike crafts, like plane-spewing zeppelins, big cannons aimed at Red Square, large Tesla 
 installations, and so on. The game does a good job of moving you around from place to place, which 
 keeps you from getting bored of any one area and constantly has you doing different things in different 
 planes.  

  Of course, it all eventually comes back to you dogfighting enemy planes. Not too far into the game's 
 18-mission campaign, you start getting secondary weapons like rockets. You get a lot of rockets 
 and it's a snap to replenish your supplies, so at this point, your machine guns become almost totally 
 useless. You later get homing rockets that make blowing up enemy planes a trivial, meaningless 
 task. This means that most of the game is so easy that you'll finish missions on the first try, 
 though that feeling of extreme air superiority fits with the spirit of your elite squad. The lone 
 exception is the eighth mission, which has you guarding Moscow's Red Square against German attackers. 
 The game isn't particularly clear about what you need to do to protect the square from being destroyed, 
 which makes this one mission a little harder than the rest. But for the most part, it's smooth 
 sailing. A little too smooth, perhaps.  

  You'll upgrade your planes as you play using points earned in each mission, and you should have 
 more than enough to buy everything by the end of the game. Different upgrades include better gun 
 sights, faster-firing machine guns, armor and maneuverability enhancements, and so on. One upgrade 
 makes your missiles explode if they get close to a target, which means you don't even have to score 
 a direct hit to take out most planes. In combat, you'll be able to order your wingmen around a 
 bit, and each guy has a special ability, just like in the previous game. One wingman will come 
 back and taunt enemies to give you some breathing room, a skill you'll probably never actually 
 need. Another will go on an aggressive attack and take out a handful of enemies, which is much 
 more useful. The third is a mechanic that will occasionally repair your plane, though unlike in 
 the first game, you don't have to hit a sequence of onscreen buttons to perform the repairs -- he 
 just fixes it automatically at checkpoints.  

  The single-player campaign is pretty satisfying, though it won't take too long for players to bust 
 through it, and you'll probably earn almost all of the campaign-related achievements as you go. 
 That's not automatically bad, as flying around and blowing up everything in sight using a variety 
 of destructive tools is actually quite fun. There's also a multiplayer side to the game, and it 
 offers a lot of different modes and options for solo flights, team games, and cooperative play. 
 The catch is that there seem to be very few people playing the game online, and aside from a solo 
 dogfight here and there, it seems impossible to find anyone playing in any of the other modes. 
 For what it's worth, the multiplayer matches we were able to actually get into weren't very exciting. 
 Many matches take place in skies filled with little power-up icons that you can collect to reload 
 your weapons, repair your plane, get double damage, and so on. The power-ups just don't really 
 fit with the vibe of the rest of the game and make the whole thing seem a little hokey. On top 
 of that, if you have a laggy connection to other players, they'll skip around so badly that no 
 one will be able to hit each other. Being able to play cooperatively through the campaign missions 
 is an attractive offer, though, so it might be worth convincing a handful of your friends to get 
 a copy so you can all play together.  

           If you end up in the spotlights for any length of time, you're practically done for.  
     

  Blazing Angels 2 looks a bit cleaner and more colorful than the first game. The ground looks nice, 
 even up close, and the various plane models look realistic. You can go in and swap around the colors 
 for each plane and also unlock additional paint schemes. The game's effects and explosions look 
 OK, and for the most part the game has a good, smooth frame rate. The audio gets a little too repetitive 
 in spots, as the main theme for the game seems to play every few minutes in one form or another, 
 eventually getting a little grating. There's a lot of voice acting throughout the missions and 
 a handful of between-mission cutscenes, and most of it is good enough. You might not like the movielike 
 feel the game is going for, though, because the Germans and Japanese have really awful accents 
 and speak English most of the time.  

  Blazing Angels 2 is a very clear improvement over the original game, though the balance has swung 
 over to the easy side in this sequel. And, of course, if you like your WWII games to be historical 
 and rooted in fact, you probably won't enjoy flying a prototype jet under the Golden Gate Bridge 
 very much. But if you're after a loose, simple game where you get to fly a lot of different, crazy 
 planes and blow up a billion German fighters, you'll probably have a good time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wl11lam360
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I watched some videos of the game and I thought it looked really different 
 to other combat flight simulators. Yes because its set in WWII, but also because you can pilot 
 bi-planes and dive bombers and interesting types of planes that wouldnt usually appear in other 
 games.
  You also start the game piloting a spitfire which is always a good thing in combat flyers as usually 
 the starting plane is a boring f 16.
  The story is about a fictional squadren consisting of three americans and one british pilot who 
 fly fictional missions in a range of rubbish american piston fighters like the the f2a buffalo 
 and umm, I think thats the only american fighter in the whole game (because they are rubbish) , 
 revolutionary new british fighters like the spitfire, gloster meteor and the de havilland vampire, 
 some japanese fighters which no one really cares about and some german jets like the messerscmitt 
 me 262 and some others. There are also some prototypes that never actually went into combat like 
 the gotha go/ horton ho 229.
  The dog fighting to be honest is good but will get really repetative, luckely there are a series 
 of different types of missions like dive bombing mission. For instance the battle of taranto on 
 the coast of Italy (which really did happen) is a fun mission with a twist. But its ruined when 
 they put some fictional US pilotes on an HMS aircraft carrier and made them the heroes. Heroes 
 for a battle that the british really won.
  But away from that, multiplayer is great, or it would be if anyone was actually ever online. I 
 think this game doesnt get the credit it deserves for a good flying game. If only there was a free 
 flight choice so you could go burning over the pyramids in a gloster meteor without the worry of 
 being blown up by some stupid invincible battle hindenburg thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  not the most graphic or stunning flying game but it does offer quite a bit like with the many airplanes 
 that you can pilot which are unlockable and can be custimized and in the campain you can custimize 
 your plane even further by buying upgrades the campain is definitly the best you can go on alot 
 of missions which are all unique and you have to employ diffrent strategies to pass each level 
 which is nice change up on one mission you might have to destroy destroyer ships on the next mission 
 you might have to blow up a huge zepplin it doesnt stay reppetitive for very long at a time and 
 the dog fights and the flying are very exciting and dynamic but the game lacks many aircraft options 
 and at times comes off as to simple but I guess it is just a arcade figter plane video game but 
 you could never compare this game to ace combact because it lacks that realism another pretty good 
 thing is the storyline it fallows a set path and can be very intresting but alot of it is made 
 up and I have to agree with the gamespot review alot of people wont like it but thats another thing 
 that keeps people hooked they want the unexpected 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  I have never played Blazing Angels. I have never played many flight simulators because I have found 
 them boring, or long winded. I saw somebody play a game like BA2 on the Xbox which might have even 
 been Blazing Angels, and it looked fun, so when I decided to spend some cash and buy an Xbox 360 
 game I went with Blazing Angels 2 because it was something I had never tried before and the console 
 format for the arcade style looked fun.
  The game is set in World War 2, and you pilot your way through 18 various missions and scenarios 
 that once you complete each of you will gain points to buy upgrades. The more "tricks" you unlock 
 and secondary objectives you complete the more planes you unlock after each mission. This makes 
 only a small difference to how quickly you could complete the next mission. Also the "tricks" are 
 more like power ups in various places that you collect. 
  Overall the storyline is quite cheesey, but its okay they admit to this in some instances, the 
 commentary is okay and the graphics are good. I enjoyed it, if not somewhat over exagerated near 
 the end with the scenarios. I played this game till completion and really enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aryck1095
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Good grapics, with impressive looking ground targets; Story and voice acting are great; Lots of 
 unique aircraft, including prototypes from the war; Secondary weapons are fun to use; Great enviroments; 
 Deatailed cockpit interiors; Allows you to customize the look of your aircraft; Great single-player 
 missions.
  
  The Bad:
  No decent American planes; Aircraft selection for individual missions are limited to just one or 
 a few aircraft; Dogfighting is too easy; Machine guns look and sound like toys; No arcade controls 
 fro cockpit mode.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  If you like flying WWII aircraft in secret mission in some of the most beautiful and exotic locales 
 in the world, the Blazing Angels 2 is the game for you.
  
  Unlike the original, this game actully has a story: You play as four allied pilots (Robinson, Thorpe, 
 Teach, and Milo) who are part of a top secret Allied squadron called "Wildcard". Working with a 
 beautiful spy and a traitorous German officer, you must put an end to the Axis' secret weapon projects, 
 and its head, a blowhard Nazi general named Von Kluge.
  
  The story is pretty good, and it has great music and voice acting to back it up. The four main 
 characters are very entertaining, and it's fun to just listen to their banter sometimes.
  
  The game bosts a selection of over 40 aircraft, including Spitfires, Me109's, and Mosquitoes, not 
 to mention a number of prototype aircraft that you've probably never even heard of, such as the 
 Go229 Flying Wing and Japanese Shinden. These certainly spice up the aircraft collection, there 
 are a few let-downs. Firstly, there are only two American planes, and none of the classic warbirds 
 like the P-38 and Corsair. The aircraft selection in each mission is very limited, usually to just 
 one or a few planes, which detracts from an otherwise great single-player.
  
  The campaign takes you through 18 unusual missions, which range from rescuing POWs, rescuing a 
 spy from Paris, stealing prototype aircraft, or destroying secret weapons. The war covers very 
 few of the wars major battles, though the ones it does cover are a little more original than other 
 games; rather than fight at Midway or defend Pearl Harbor, you'll find yourself supporting an evacuation 
 of Rangoon, or attacking the Italian Fleet at Toranto.
  
  The campaign is a far cry from what you normally see in a WWII flight sim, but it still isn't perfect. 
 Enemy planes are very easy to destroy most of the time, even if you refrain from using your self-guided 
 missles and other special weapons. Still it is somewaht fun. You can also try playing the game 
 from the cockpit view, which makes the dogfighting a little more interesting by bring you into 
 an FPS-style viewpoint, and each plane has its own unigue, detailed cockpit interior. Though some 
 pretty unrealistic machine guns take away from the combat abit, not to mention you don't need to 
 lead the target with light MGs, making dogfighting even easier.
  
  The game has its share of ups and downs, but overall its a fun game with a good story, and is a 
 great purchase for flying fans. Trust me, you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  First of all, I played Blazing Angels: Squadrons Of WWII and I despised it. It had the terrible 
 voice acting, gameplay and graphics. But let's not go into that.
  
  Blazing Angels 2: Secret Missions Of WWII has very average gameplay, great voice acting compared 
 to Blazing Angels 1 and has a nice variety of weapons and aircraft.
  
  Blazing Angels 2's gameplay is fun at times, but most of the time it is extremely bland! Most of 
 the time, you'll be shooting down enemy planes which is very easy with the weapons you can have. 
 Altogether there are 18 missions which have average length and are packed with things for uyou 
 to either blow up or sink. One really good thing about Blazing Angels 2 are the secret weapons 
 you have full-access to which are TV Guided Missiles, Rockets, Flashing Lights ect. These weapons 
 really stand out. However on the other hand, missions feel hardly relistic since the whole game 
 has a 'arcade' feel to it and is nothing like a good WWII flight combat sim. Overall gameplay is 
 b-l-a-n-d.
  
  The voice acting has improved significantly from Blazing Angels 1. Blazing Angels 1 had the most 
 horrifying, cheesy and lame voices. It felt like watching the kings of all b+ films. But, I was 
 heavily surprised with Blazing Angels 2 since the voice acting felt at least semi-relistic but 
 what really annoys me in the game is, how the game character's would always state the obvious. 
 In example would beHey, your getting shot" or "I suggest you dodge the enemy fire". But overall 
 voice acting has been drastically improved. Bravo Ubisoft!
  
  Overall in short, Blazing Angels 2 is a passable game and is pretty fun but at times you'll say 
 to yourself "Is the game going to end yet? Please end it!" Because it's just so very bland and 
 boring. If you want a good WWII flight simulator, you should try Heroes Of The Pacific on Playstation 
 2, that is better than this game by a mile! But if you still wish to purchase this game, it's passable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andilliio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of good aspects but it isn't quite as good as the first . First of all the 
 graphics in this game are amazing! Every street, house and city is amazingly detailed and fun to 
 fly in. These graphics really look good. The game play however isn't quite as fun as in the first 
 one. The game is less of a dogfighting and ground attack game and more of a huge obstacle course 
 where you have to fly through difficult terrain and narrow canyons to for fill some objective. 
 However the gameplay is also spiced up with a new stats system and a few choices on what weapons 
 you get to bring into the battle. Another awesome part of this game is the experimental secret 
 defense weapons. These are like the power blocks in Supermario cart they give you abilities like 
 flash bang, flak gun and emp blast, all of which hinder any enemy behind you in some way. This 
 definetly spices up the dogfights in multyplayer duels which were very dull before. The secret 
 missions part isn't really a huge aspect of the game and other than seeing some fantasy enemy weapons 
 it isn't much different from the original. The multyplayer in general is pretty much the same which 
 isn't nessecarily a bad thing because the original multyplayer was rich with options and different 
 modes to play in. Even wih all these options the offline multyplayer gets old after a while. The 
 story in this game is better than the old one because of the secret part and is acually quite interesting 
 even though they aren't acually animated. The game is harder and longer than the original but is 
 still too short. The multyplayer helps expand its life a bit and overall its a pretty nice game 
 for any WW2 arcade flying game fan.
  Graphics-10
  Story-8.5
  Gameplay-7
  Replay-5
  Multyplayer-8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8/10
  - First WWII game I've played where the story and action was all based off of a pilot and his missions. 
 Combat with other planes can be difficult at times, once you get behind them its almost too easy. 
 Pretty interesting point of view I've yet to see besides from the original Blazing Angels, which 
 I have yet to play. The gameplay itself is a lot of fun, along with the great selection of aircraft 
 to unlock and use, there are also many upgrades that can be added on your array of planes. Planes 
 can be somewhat difficult to control for the PC unless using a joystick which I HIGHLY recommend 
 getting, it makes gameplay much more fun. They should have made it a bit more keyboard user friendly 
 for the PC users, any of the other systems had easy to learn controls. The WWII combat style was 
 also a bit confusing with the controls, hard to stay on the enemy but still I was able to learn 
 how to somewhat quickly. 
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7/10
  - The game is not very immersive but still very addictive, I really didn't know what to expect 
 going into it and I'd have to say the game kept me going for several hours. Atmosphere is very 
 very open, boundries are very large.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5/10
  - The graphics really suprised me, I was expecting poor quality but I was once again suprised. 
 Great graphics for a WWII Flight Fighter game. The Physics weren't anything new, simply blowing 
 up planes or ground units, sometimes ships which happens to be quite fun.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  - The voice acting is alright, not much else to say about the voices, but the action and gameplay 
 sounds are of fantastic quality. The developers including all possible sounds heard from war planes 
 and made quite an experience out of it. Love the air raid alarms in the towns, makes me want to 
 destroy them all the more.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 8.5/10
  - No bugs or any problems except for a very few times when menu buttons were either unresponsive 
 on lagging out bad, but rarely happened. Game never crashed or had any issues during actual gameplay 
 and for PC users this game can adapt to most systems on the market.
  
  Replay value: 6/10
  - With the multiplayer options and just the open campaigns I can really keep 
 playing for a long time. Few people seem to ever be on for online play. After a while the game 
 and missions can get quite repetitive.
  
  Value for money: 7/10
  - $20 is the current retail price and this game is probably worth closer to $16-$18. 
  
  Will 
 this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - No, unfortunately not a chance with games like Microsoft Flight Simulator 10 on the market. The 
 only thing this has to beat it out is combat.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - I would recommend renting it first to most people, any diehard Flight Simulator fan should have 
 a lot of fun with this and I would recommend them to buy it for such a cheap price.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7.5 - As the first Flight Sim game 
 I've ever played, I'm quite content with this one. Somewhat difficult controls to learn but still 
 worth hours of fun! Game certainly could have offered more but didn't at the least bit dissapoint 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  in this gener it is so difficult to struggle with ACE COMBAT series; but ubisoft creat new IP that 
 can challenge with it; the BA: SMWWII is a perfect game for everyone who love the gener; you can experience 
 a lot plans and SP weapons; missions are so good and atract players to play them; they have everythings 
 in them; chasing, striking, stealth mode and at last alot BOSS FIGHTs with strong BOSSES; you must 
 know in this game there is not something in the name of EASY; every mission has it's own rules;
 
  in this gener it is so important that the control act smoothly and handy; UBISOFT provide it for 
 us; access is granted when you want do everything you want, but in the 180turns it is not so handy; you 
 must manage the weapons wisely too; in the first half of the game you enjoy from the killing nazi's 
 plans; but on the other half you are so angry that why they shoot you down so much;
  the AI is so good they attack you from everywhere and if they are going down, they smash their plans 
 to you; top of them are the BOSSes, they act like human's mind and teach you how to fight;
  at the end it so perfect and huge;
  you must play it; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomloard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game need more airplanes map area and missions. the missions are not very long and there are 
 not alot of them. the game is basicaly moving around trying to kill enemys. you only get to land 
 and do other cool stuff like once per 5 levels. But even with these bad things this is a very good 
 game becuase it has alittle freedom. the graphics are suprisingly very good better than the first. 
 if you dont know if you want this game i would strongly recomend that you rent it first and then 
 if you aree still not shur i would wait for the price to go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Following a train around, like a helicopter, constantly getting blown up is just stupid.. This 
 game is a waste of money for those who like to fly.
  
  Starts out with lots of irritation, seems to get hung up on stupid things. rent it dont buy it.
 
  
  rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont 
 buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont 
 buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont 
 buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont 
 buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it.
  rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. rent it dont buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
