-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitz: The League
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/blitztheleague/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Heartless, bloodthirsty football with highly satisfying action.
 ferocious animations.
 single-player mode is damn fun, especially the custom team aspect of it.
 highly enjoyable online multiplayer.
 lawrence taylor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The same game as last year, with minimal upgrades and a full retail price.
 A few artificial intelligence quirks.
 using the unleashed mode can sometimes be more of a detriment than a boon.
 a little more effort could have been put into the story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.0, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 541 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Football
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blitz on the Xbox 360 is the same addictive, violent game of football that it was last year. But 
 after a year's time, you'd hope for a bit more than a port. 

  Midway's Blitz series of football games has had its ups and downs -- often rather extreme ups and 
 downs. But with the debut of Blitz: The League late last year, Midway proved that it still knew 
 how to make a fast, violent, completely over-the-top game of football. By forgoing the NFL license 
 in favor of a fake football league, Midway had free rein to do all the dirty stuff that the NFL 
 won't talk about -- namely, juicing players, gambling addictions, off-the-field trysts with cheerleaders, 
 and hilariously horrible injuries. It was a great game of football that didn't take itself the 
 least bit seriously, and now, one year later, Blitz has made its Xbox 360 debut. However, this 
 isn't a sequel to Blitz: The League. It's  actually  Blitz: The League. Seemingly ported from the 
 Xbox version of the game, this new version of Blitz sports an additional cover athlete in tight-end-punching 
 ex-linebacker and all around psychopath Bill Romanowski, and a few minor graphical upgrades. But 
 beyond that, this is the same game you already played a year ago, and it's not at a discounted 
 price, either.  

          Blitz: The League's debut on the Xbox 360 is a lot like its debut on the Xbox and PS2 -- mainly 
 because it's just about the exact same game.     

  To be fair, that's not necessarily a terrible thing, especially if you never got around to playing 
 this game on other platforms, because Blitz is still a lot of fun. If you ever played Blitz in 
 its arcade heyday, the core mechanics of The League will be immediately familiar to you. This is 
 eight-on-eight football with an incredibly quick pace, 30-yard downs, and the kinds of barbarous 
 hits that would snap a typical human being in half. But really, anyone with a basic understanding 
 of football ought to be able to pick up The League's simplistic mechanics quite easily. You still 
 call plays as you would in any football game, and you can run, pass, and tackle at the press of 
 single buttons. Just don't expect any fancy audibles or defensive scheme shifts to be available. 
 You'll call a play, and that's the play you'll run.  

  The League does futz with the Blitz formula a bit, however, and in quite satisfying ways. As you 
 earn yards and touchdowns on offense, and as you stuff your opponents on defense, you'll build 
 up your team's clash meter. Clash is basically the gamebreaker concept from EA's arcade sports 
 games, but it's done better here. Any time you have any clash built up, you can simply press the 
 left trigger on the controller to slow down time for everyone on offense except the player you're 
 in control of. Passing the ball while in clash mode will let you take control of the wide receiver, 
 tight end, or whoever else you choose while he's in midroute, letting you shift him to the position 
 he needs to be in to manually catch the ball. Runners can use this mode to shift and juke around 
 would-be tacklers with relative ease. Defenders use clash differently than offensive players, because 
 it doesn't slow down time for them. Essentially, clash lets them lay down the dirtiest, foulest, 
 meanest hits you'll ever see.  

  These defensive cheap shots will often lead to injuries, which are the best part of the game. Any 
 time you injure an opposing player, the game shifts to an X-ray camera mode, highlighting the portion 
 of the poor schmuck's anatomy you just snapped in two. If it isn't a season-ending injury, you're 
 even given the option of treating it as normal, perhaps leading to the player being out for the 
 entire length of the game. However, if you're the gambling type, you can "juice" that player up, 
 bringing him back in to the game after just a short time. Just pray to whatever you believe in 
 that the player doesn't get hit really hard again, because if he does, you can kiss him good-bye 
 for a good long time.  

          This is still mean-spirited, hard-hitting football at its finest.     

  The clash functionality 
 usually works really well. It rarely unbalances the game, since both player- and computer-controlled 
 teams use it the same way. The only weird thing about it is when you max it out to then go in to 
 unleashed mode. You earn unleashed status by repeated dirty hits, touchdowns, and things of that 
 nature. When in unleashed mode, you're basically unstoppable the second you lay your hands either 
 on the ball or the ball carrier. It's nice to have at least one point where you can practically 
 be guaranteed a long completion or run, and on defense, some of the hits you lay down while in 
 unleashed mode are absolutely hysterical (such as the  Waterboy -style Captain Insano power bomb 
 and the move where you literally pull the ball carrier's helmet off his head and then start beating 
 him with it) . But once you're out of that state, your meter is completely drained. Until you're 
 highly experienced at the game, trying to make plays (especially on defense) without even an ounce 
 of clash is tough. On offense you can at least build it up quickly with a short completion or two, 
 but on defense, you need an interception, a sack, or a fumble before you get anything. Still, it's 
 not a broken system; it just requires a little more forethought and care than you might expect 
 from such a fast and loose game.  

  There are a couple of things about the way The League plays that might also irritate longtime football-game 
 players. For one, the artificial intelligence, while generally smart, occasionally loses its mind 
 and forgets that going for an extra point instead of a two-point conversion will keep it behind 
 by, say, four points instead of the three it would be losing by after a two-pointer. The kicking 
 game, in general, seems to be a little all over the place, too. From a player's standpoint, the 
 rhythm-game-based kick meter is awesome, but the computer opponents seem to whiff a few too many 
 easy kicks. Also, don't be surprised if you catch wind of the computer opponent magically grabbing 
 interceptions and forcing fumbles late in the game when it's down. Blitz games have always kind 
 of flirted with catch-up AI, and it's not horrible here. Just be careful toward the end of a game, 
 and don't start throwing unnecessary long bombs -- no matter how tempted you might be -- because the 
 AI will take advantage.     

  Blitz: The League contains no franchise mode to speak of. Instead, you get the campaign mode, a 
 30-game-plus storyline telling the story of one team's rise from the dregs of the game's fictional 
 league to the top. You begin the mode by creating a team of your own, complete with city name, 
 uniform style, and logo. Then you get to choose a rookie offensive player and a veteran defensive 
 player. These are the two players that will come under the most focus during the storyline. The 
 story itself was apparently penned by some of the writers from ESPN's now-defunct gridiron soap 
 opera  Playmakers , and it shows. After a particularly humiliating defeat against Quentin Sands 
 (voiced to perfection by the dirtiest player in the game: Lawrence Taylor) and his New York Nightmare, 
 your team is sent to Division 3. The league in this story is broken up into three divisions, with 
 the top dogs competing in Division 1 and the bargain-basement, Houston Texans-like squads rounding 
 out the bottom of the barrel in Division 3. The game never explains how this whole thing works, 
 beyond the fact that you need to win the championship in each division to move up.  

          They don't show this kind of stuff on the NFL Network.     

  After the humiliating 
 defeat, team owner Lyman Strang (best villain name  ever ) clears house, pulls together an entirely 
 new roster and coaching staff, and makes a bet with the city's mayor that the team will win the 
 Division 1 championship. What's at stake? A lucrative bond issue for the city's voters that would 
 call for the building of a new state-of-the-art stadium for the team. From there, things get crazy. 
 Sexual escapades with team cheerleaders occur, gambling debts pile up on your veteran player, and 
 more than a few heated rivalries get started against opposing teams. Oh, and everybody swears a 
 lot.  A lot .  

  Each division plays 10 games and a championship game, and you have to win seven games in each division 
 to get to the championship. That shouldn't be an issue through the first couple of divisions, provided 
 you're smart about how you build your team up. With no free agents to sign or rookies to draft, 
 the only way to improve your squad is through training and illicit substances. You earn cash for 
 said improvements by winning games, delivering big hits, and even gambling on your own games. Once 
 you've got some cash, you can buy equipment and trainer upgrades to build up the stats of your 
 players the good old-fashioned way, or you can give them "supplements" of varying degrees of legality. 
 Some offer mostly harmless boosts to a couple of stats, but some also juice you up to 'roid-rage-like 
 levels. The more dangerous drugs can be useful, but they'll usually also diminish things like a 
 player's field awareness or injury resistance. So start thinking about just how much you really 
 need that strength and speed boost in contrast to the risk of having a top player's spine cracked 
 into a million pieces. Also, you'll want to avoid juicing up a player too far, as random drug tests 
 will rear their ugly heads from time to time.  

  The storyline is interspersed only periodically into the flow of the action, and at times it comes 
 across as pretty inconsequential. The few scenes you do get, despite a seemingly intentional level 
 of cheesiness, can be quite entertaining. Of course, this is the same story you might have already 
 played through before, but Midway did add one twist by tossing Bill Romanowski in there as the 
 voice of Bruno Battaglia, one of the main player characters in the story. Not that this changes 
 anything, mind you, but hey, the more disgraced football players on hand, the better. Maybe next 
 year Midway can get Maurice Clarett.  

  It also becomes a surprisingly addictive experience to build up your team throughout the campaign, 
 especially since you can take your team in to the quick play and online modes. And multiplayer 
 is where Blitz: The League really shines. All the little AI quirks of the offline games go immediately 
 away, and what you're left with is a highly entertaining and often unpredictable multiplayer experience. 
 On Xbox Live, the game played just about as well as we remembered it playing on the PS2 and Xbox, 
 with minimal lag and plenty of head-to-head fun.  

  Speaking of addictive, the 360 version of Blitz does bring achievement points into the mix. There 
 are 47 achievements to be found in the game, including several secret ones. There are some tough 
 ones to be sure, but there are also plenty of easy points to be had just by playing through the 
 campaign and online. We got a big chunk of points just by playing one game in the campaign mode. 

  As great as Blitz looked last year on older consoles, it's hard to be impressed by what the game 
 looks like on the Xbox 360. The animation is still highly entertaining, of course. The basic movements 
 of the players still have that exaggerated, gangly style to them, but the hits in the game are 
 just ludicrous. Even the basic tackles look like they hurt a lot. And the special moves? They're 
 not for the faint of heart. You'll see great moments, such as when some poor receiver gets upended 
 and lands right on his head or when some recently beaten-up player gets up and spits blood that 
 splatters on the camera lens. These are equal parts painful and hysterical, and it's surprising 
 how many types of hits there are in the game. The player models also look a cut above anything 
 that has ever been in a Blitz game before. They still don't look especially realistic, and in cutscenes 
 they can sometimes look bad. The main problem is that nothing has been upgraded for the 360. Things 
 look a bit shinier, and there's more muscle definition in some of the player models, but that's 
 about it. In HD, you'll notice these few differences, but in SD, you might as well be playing last 
 year's Xbox game.  

          The 360 version looks maybe a little bit better than it did on the Xbox last year, but 
 it's a marginal difference, at best.     

  As mentioned before, Blitz: The League is a foulmouthed game. The characters are cynically written 
 and are gruffly voiced, and they drop an awful lot of "F" bombs. Most of the voice acting is pretty 
 good, though a few characters sound lousy. Apart from those uneven spots, it's good work, and the 
 in-game commentary turns out surprisingly well. There's just one play-by-play man, but he delivers 
 the commentary well. In fact, he's probably the least hammy character in the entire game. On the 
 field, everything is as it should be. Hits are booming in nature, bones snap in real raw fashions, 
 and players jaw back and forth with one another using goofy insults that aren't nearly as bad as 
 you might expect. The soundtrack is made up of a number of licensed bands, as is the trend these 
 days. It mostly consists of a bunch of bands and hip-hop acts you've probably never heard of, but 
 most of it is surprisingly good, with only a couple of off-kilter tracks here and there.  

  Last year, Blitz: The League seemed revelatory. This year, Blitz is still fun, but you can't help 
 but wonder why Midway would shove out a port of a year-old game, tweak it slightly, and charge 
 nearly full price for it. Actually, maybe it's not too hard to figure why a publisher would do 
 that, but regardless, it makes Blitz on the 360 a tougher game to recommend. It's still great fun, 
 but that same great fun can be had on the PS2 and Xbox for around the $20 mark at this point. If 
 you missed out on the game last year and aren't some kind of obsessive-compulsive achievement-point 
 nut, you're better off with one of those versions.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bab725
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Blitz The League is an extremely mature game. The language is very coarse and the violence is brutal... 
 WHO CARES!!! This game makes you feel like a beast when playing it. I look forward to every play 
 because it's a new chance to injure someone. When you injure someone, the game goes into a little 
 cut scene and shows what you have broken. You can choose to treat it safely or juice them (which 
 means give them steroids) . Juicing the player can be very helpful when it comes to your QB getting 
 injured. The create a team feature is a lot of fun and a great way to personalize yourself. Overall, 
 a great bargain game, you can get it a Game Stop for 14.99 used. The options go deep when you can 
 put your players on performance enhancing drugs and training camps. The campaign is great in every 
 way!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbezza93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  fun game. single player can become repetitive. but with mates round it can be a fun great game. playing 
 against your freinds you can realy get into and rely go in hard in the tackles. the tackles are 
 great and the bone smashing is just ace. it is actually a funny game and the slow mo feature makes 
 it much easier to tackle and run. single player campaign fun as you make your own team and choose 
 whether to juice them up or not. not many people on x box live any more but i cant wait to get 
 blitz the league 2. it looks like the same good old blitz game play just sharper graphics and new 
 features. to wrap it up a great game ok graphics fun gameplay i still play it even though its very 
 dated.
  graphics 7/10
  gameplay 8/10
  fun 10/10
  sound 9/10
  good game if you can get it cheap buy it. if not wait for number 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrNameInBlood
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Blitz is great game. But it has a lot of problems. For instance players on the field tend to glitch 
 some times and gets to be VERY annoying. Brawls are VERY hard to actually win. Items are TOO expensive. 
 Training players is hard to do because of amount of limited training you can do at a time. Graphics 
 are not great but it is an older game. Clip scenes are annoying but you can skip. Loading is pretty 
 long. Lag in rain or snow is absoloutely horrible. And kickers cant tackle worth their lives which 
 is bad when their the last line of defense on a kick-off. Oh and multiplayer is very weak. Okay, 
 enough with the negatives, time for some positives. Even through the rough times on dynasty you 
 still have a blast. the dirty hit system is awesome, brawls, as hard as they are, are fun. Its 
 pretty cool to build up a team from the ashes. The slo-mo is amazingly helpful and cool. And this 
 game is highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarloxRickshaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Not the easiest achievment game, but it is a fun one. dirty hits all the way to juicing the game 
 is fun time after time. its basicly the same as the ps2 version, and its the same price, but it 
 was so good i had to buy it again. Im addicted. The more who get on live the marrier, cuz i want 
 the acheivments but no1s on there!! you can do dirty hits, start line brawls, juice ur players 
 injurys, and messs up the other teams players by buying them a good time the night befor. it is 
 like no other football game. its Amazing. Reccomended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle_Guts
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  this game is gay for one reson the game play it sucked like takleing people was too easey. When 
 ever I got the ball I would practicaly never get touched so it wasnt that hard. The cheats for 
 this game suck they actualy make it more easeyer than it allready is i ruterned mine so you should 
 do the same. My frinds told me to get it because they liked it but the that showed me why. Madden 
 is so much beter so you should get that game not this cheap piece of *****. If you have played 
 smackdown v. s raw it so beates this game not many people have xbox live for this game but for sd 
 v. s raw they have like 2 million people playing it . the storey line for this game suckes they 
 only make it about the money why dont they make it for the show not just the money why do you have 
 to win buy a certain score just to get you money. This is a colleg football game that is why there 
 is so many of dirty tatics. Play a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kletomax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Madden series I always like to reach out to the arcade style football Sims for 
 a change of pace. Blitz does a great job turning a fun sport to watch and play into a game thats 
 a total blast. turbo speed, to broken bones, the unique Blitz qualities keep me coming back for 
 more. I feel the offensive side of the game works great. Controls are straight forward, and switching 
 player control is easy, if not automatic with the passing of the football. The defensive side however, 
 seems to give me a problem, as the action is fast enough that its difficult to switch to the nearest 
 defensive player to lay a hard tackle on the ball carrier. This may not seem like such a big deal, 
 but when power points are rewarded for this, it can get frustrating. The graphics are equal to 
 that of other football sims, although the cheerleaders could have been drawn better. The addition 
 of performance upgrades and training for players, from weightlifting to steroids to better shoulder 
 pads is a great addition strategy to an otherwise narrowly focused game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nebagaman4life
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  The game its self is wonderful. Each game packed with bone crushing hits and excruciating looking 
 injuries. However there is a bug in the game which allows you to rack up literally 80 sacks in 
 the 12 game middle league and nearly 70 in the top league. This marred the game for me. The other 
 thing is that is has very little replay value since the story line is roughly the same every time 
 you play it. Buy when your bored of madden and enjoy that fact that it is everything madden isn't. 
 don't blow your money on the 360 version buy it for the original x box because the graphics aren't 
 that much better on the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slap_shot
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  First the good news - the gameplay in Blitz might just be the simplest to pick up, and the most 
 enjoyable, of any football game to date. It is straightforward, reasonably easy to learn, and still 
 offers just enough depth that it doesn't get boring too quickly.
  
  The visuals on this game are fantastic, and if you don't enjoy the bone-snapping x-ray visuals 
 that come with injuries, I'd encourage you to pick up the new ballet game coming out soon. Seriously, 
 the game looks great, the hits are awesome, and the occasional brawl is some serious butt whooping 
 fun.
  
  The only real downside of this game is lack of depth. In a game like this its not reasonable to 
 expect Madden-like depth, but a few mini games, more player and team development in franchise mode 
 and a little more in the way of online options would make this a bone-crushingly awesome game, 
 instead of just a bruisingly good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tytomes9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  very creative and very easy to learn. great multiplayer game. amazing graphics better then the madden 
 series. The hits in this game are huge and look great. i like how there is swearing and people 
 almost die in it. one thing i dont like is the way you kick becasue it dosent feel like ur in the 
 game. it is worth 20 dollars right now so if you want a great football gane you should by this 
 one. i hope they create a new for for 2007. So get ur ass of the computer and go and get it noww. 
 and have fun **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 25, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Blitz: The Leauge is about some manager guy taking the worst football team in The League and wanting 
 to completely overhaul the entire team - that means everything from players and uniforms to coaches, 
 tactics, and stadiums. The player then gets to guide the team of scrubs to the top through games, 
 training, and steroids.
  
  Now you're probably saying, Wait, did he say steroids? and I'm going to say yes. You are able to 
 give juice - another street name for steroids - to your players to enhance their strength, agility, 
 and other areas. You can also give steroids to a player if he gets injured on the field. Now the 
 idea of using these illegal substances may sound cool and entiscing, but it is almost useless in-game. 
 You pay RIDICULOUS amounts of money for one cycle of the drugs, and it only enhances your character 
 by 1 point and thats really it... additionally, not all steroids can be used at one time by all 
 players, only 1 can be used at a time. So lets say I wanted to use Steroid A on a QB, but also 
 wanted to use Steroid A on a linebacker.. I couldn't.
  
  Its a football game, so what do you expect? You kick off the ball, run around a field, choose a 
 play, and so on. The fun comes in the form of the tackles. Although I can easily say this game 
 has NOTHING on Blitz 2000 for the Nintendo 64's hilarious, bone breaking, wrestling inspired tackles, 
 there are some moments that are.. do I dare say, cool. These are now called dirty hits and they 
 are when you do damaging tackles to an opponent. These include anything from jumping on the back 
 of an opponent to grabbing his head from behind and ramming it into the floor.
  
  New to the Blitz series is the Clash Meter . This is a thing that, if filled up, you can slow down 
 time and make running past defense a lot easier, or you can use it to do game-ending injuries to 
 opponents. You can fill this up by gaining yards, doing dirty hits, doing nice catches, etc. Its 
 really easy to fill up the clash meter honestly.
  
  So why is this game getting a bad score? For one reason: difficulty. This game is honestly the 
 hardest game I have ever played. The rival team uses the clash meter constantly and its impossible 
 to beat a lot of the teams on the  try. If they catch a ball maybe 
 2 feet ahead of your blocker, you wont be able to catch up... you'll constantly fumble the ball.. they 
 will score like 2 touchdowns at the very end of a game. Basically, the difficulty is retarded. 
 Its so hard that I can't give this game a high score.
  
  The achievements are lame, I'm not even getting into it.. Weak Sauce? Come on.
  
  The graphics 
 are okay, but feel a bit dated and the character models feel &amp; look a bit stiff. The stadiums 
 look pretty good though and the weather effects are cool.
  
  The music is really good I must say. Midway managed to score (hed) PE, Skindred, KoRn, and other 
 artists to contribute to the soundtrack and it adds nicely. There is some techno-ish music as well. 
 The sound effects are pretty awesome like when bones crack or someone gets smashed to the floor.... 
 however, the commentary provided by both player and announcers are horrible. Yeah, sorry butter 
 fingas. ... boo.
  
  To finish, Blitz: The Leauge would be a lot better if it was beatable, and to those who did beat 
 it then my hat is truely off to you. The game is fun to play with your friends however, so I guess 
 the annoying campaign can be overlooked. 6.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tedinator
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Blitz the league can be summed up in a single term, adrenalin rush. Blitz takes all of the most 
 exciting factors of football and dulls out all of the tedium in between plays. For example, Blitz 
 has made it easier than ever to cause bone crushing career enders by completely eliminating any 
 and all rules save the false start penalty. You can get away with hit after hit, drag 'em down 
 by the face mask, knee them in the groin, and even remove their own helmet and bash them in the 
 head with it. All of this coupled with the ability to make your own teams. You can edit everything, 
 make a logo, uniform, name your players, and then train them to your unique playing style. Overall, 
 Blitz is the first football game that I could really sink my teeth into. Blitz manages to eliminate 
 all of the rules and regulations to create a truly enjoyable, albeit very over the top style of 
 gameplay. The graphics are a little dated since its release on the xbox and little has changed 
 with the '360, but that's nothing that an HDTV can't overcome. I've been playing Madden for awhile, 
 but, after playing Blitz, I likely will never go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MVfalcons83
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun because it has so many game modes. I haven't tried all of them but alot of 
 them are fun. The campaign is very fun. I love making my favorite team in the campaign which is 
 the Atlanta Falcons. I make all the players on the team in real life. I love making my team better 
 because thats so fun. An amazing part in the game is when people get injured you can either choice 
 to treat it or get a shot to make them come back faster but that also makes them easier to get 
 hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 14, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Blitz the League is cheap. When the game came out for 360, it was a discount title because it is 
 little more than a port, but thats only &frac12; the point. The AI in this game is down right 
 disgustingly cheap. Its not apparent right off the bat either. No, I went through training and 
 felt real good about this game, started a campaign mode and thought I made a solid team that could 
 compete with the rest. The first game I played I did notice that the computers QB has some GREAT 
 reflexes. In the tutorial mode, the game teaches you how to use your clash meter to scramble as 
 the quarterbackbut not like this. What the computer achieves is remarkable, its able to dodge 
 4 sacks in about 6 seconds and thats not all. Even though the meter is depleted, it can still 
 break off two tackles and throw a touch down pass. While this scenario doesnt happen that often, 
 it happens way more than it should. Still on the subject of being cheap. Now lets talk about their 
 defense. Lets be honest, a QB that can make Spiderman jealous has to have a defense that can match 
 this ability so the computers defense is made up of players that dont need a clash meter to do 
 damage. A simple tackle can just as easily cause a fumble on your players while you have to pretty 
 much fill up your clash meter to unleash level to be effective here. Oh and special teams, lets 
 not forget about them. These players are professional clash usersable to use about a millimeter 
 of clash (which is like less than a second) to break enough tackles for a 45 yard break away touch 
 down return.
  
  However, in small doses the game is very fun. Its just sad that Midway had to resort to underhanded 
 tactics to make this game competitive. When the game is going good, there are tons of amazing 
 plays, bone-breaking tackles, and loads of touch downs that it makes me wish I could save instant 
 replays on my hard drive. The action is fast, fun and furious and rarely lets up.
  
  Graphically the game isnt very impressive on the 360. They did improve the lighting and weather 
 effects immensely but they still aren't on par with other titles on this system. The animations 
 and tackle animations are still pretty fluid but the player models, on the other hand, are stiff 
 making this game easily recognizable as a port. This is mostly apparent during juicing scenes 
 and when people come back from the injured list. Speaking of injuries, not since the days of NHLPA 
 95s little bleeding head injuries has hurting someone in a sports game been this enjoyable. A 
 brutal hit will cause the camera to zoom in in CSI x-ray fashion and give a close look at the broken 
 bone or torn ligament. Unfortunately the time a player spends on the injury list seems to be random. 
 Ive seen sprained wrists take players out longer than spinal contusions.
  
  
  Sound effects are perfect but the sound track is too pop music for me. The playlist goes from gangsta 
 rap bravado to hardcore punk screaming in a matter of seconds. Thankfully that these songs only 
 play very briefly while plays are being picked or during the menus. Back to sound effects, they 
 are all well done but again, the injury sounds stand out the most. Muscles being torn, bones breaking, 
 the hits themselves are music to my ears. Voice acting is done well also but its nothing spectacular.
 
  
  There is a story but its what you can expect from a non-licensed football game meaning drugs, 
 swearing, parties and betrayal all show there faces here. The plot resembles a more mature Bad 
 News Bears tale of a team rising through the ranks. A rags to riches story.
  
  Not much has been added to the 360 version as far as I can tell; a few new teams, maybe some new 
 modes, achievements and a little better graphics but that's it.
  
  Like I mentioned before, this game would have been great if the AC (Artificial Cheapness) was more 
 difficult because of stats not because of the computers ability to process reactions faster or 
 capitalize off of random occurrences. Dont think Im bitter because so far my franchise team has 
 15 wins and only 1 loss, its just that fighting for those wins should be rewarding not laughably 
 frustrating because of cheap AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  For many many years American football fans were used to the easy going madden football game until 
 Blitz: The league came out for the Xbox. It compleltey changed the way American Football would 
 be played and in respect made the NFL look like wimps!
  
  Right from the go you'd wanna hit the training camp here you will come across the new details and 
 new features which Blitz offers for you. Instantly it looks like Madden and feels like it BUT YOU 
 KNOW IT ISN'T!! from then your little tutor if you will shout at you and swear at you if you get 
 it wrong or right!
  
  The new features in the game are all do with hard-hitting bone crushing moves. Just simply pulling 
 the left trigger takes your player into a Clash mode which is like SUPER MODE you then can peform 
 dirty tackles silly taunts and break bones and OH OH OH! WE JUST LOVE IT!
  
  Campaign mode is another stand out for the game tons of cutscenes from on the picth to a bar to 
 an office it just never gets old!
  
  Problems or mistakes if you would is just the graphics it looks like an Xbox version type of game 
 and feels pretty sluggish at times the animation may jump from really good to really bad and you 
 would defiently expect more from a game like Blitz!
  
  Tired of Madden wanna see some real bruisers then Blitz is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOD_Liberator
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Midway messed up with this game. When I first heard that Blitz was coming to the 360 I was very 
 excited, only to be let down. This game has the potential of being a great game had they just tweaked 
 a few things. First off the graphics are an embarassment to all Xbox 360 games. It looks exactly 
 like it does on the original xbox. Often times during cut scenes you'll see your players running 
 through one another and sometimes they'll even disappear completely. The crowd in the background 
 is horrible. I can't even explain how bad the crowd looks. Secondly, the gameplay is fun for the 
 most part, but you'll find it to get repetitive after 10 games or so. Also, while playing you are 
 constantly interrupted by anoying cut scenes of players talking smack to each other and there is 
 no option to turn them off, sure you can just press B, but that really begins to get irritating 
 after having to do it 10 times in a single game. Thirdly, the sound just outright sucks. The crowd 
 response is no good at all, the soundtrack for this game simply is not good, the tackles sound 
 incredibly fake, and the voices suck too. However there are some good points to this game. The 
 multiplayer isn't so bad, but often times lags. The addition of the new campaign is ok, but the 
 storyline is weak. Over all this game is a rent at the most, so don't waste your money like i did 
 and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Sick and Tired of same old madden games becuz it's the same game over and over again in the series? 
 Then you should try Blitz ONLY if u like to play football in an arcade way rather than simulation.. or 
 u can even play it if u like both arcade and simulation..
  
  The gameplay is almost the same with madden but it's much easier.. the playbook are quite simple, 
 but there's not much of it. The clash mode is a cool feature that shows the impossible to be possible 
 during the game.. and the Unleash moves are as cooler as u could think of. The good part about the 
 gameplay is that it is a user friendly control game.. The controls will be simple once u get it 
 right... how? just go thru the tutorial course in the menu and u will be a PRO in the Blitz. The 
 tackles made in the game are very fun to watch.. it's a hard hittin, bone crunhing tackles.. u can 
 even make a dirty tackle to wear your opponents down.. and if u hit hard enough, u will see a cut 
 scene where the camera will zoom in your opponent's body in an x-ray view and show the bone that 
 is shattered.. it's a very nice feature.. the story mode is about 8 hours long.. there are about 36 
 games overall in the story mode..
  
  The training is quite realistic as you train almost every player in your team. u can even enhance 
 your player by taking drugs or supplements.. upgrade your training levels and buy good equipments 
 for your team.. U can also place a Bet before u start a game, to win more cash for your team's upgrades.
 
  
  And after you win the game.. u can take your created team and play it online..
  
  But.. what's the bad side? Here it is... Firstly.. it's the career mode.. it's nice to see sports games 
 to have storylines... it's unique coz in life.. there is a story in every sports behind the stadium 
 and in the game. But, the problem with it is that is totally Linear! The story lines are fixed 
 and u can't change it no matter how u play the game. Blitz is also lack in management.. when u start 
 the career mode, u MUST create your own team before u can proceed.
  u cannot use the existing team that Midway provide u with in the story mode. After that, that's 
 it... U can't choose who is the one to be your sub player.. who is the one who should be in the field.. and 
 u can't even subsitute any player during the game.. it will auto sub for u.. it's not a bad story 
 afterall.. but the story will definitely get repetitive the more times u play the career mode.
 
  
  Secondly, what do u expect in an Xbox 360 game in the first place? You expects it to be next gen.. and 
 that is, it must be different from the current gen version.. but guess what? it's a straight port... the 
 graphics are just about 2% polished up.. but it still resembles the xbox version.. looks nicer than 
 the PS2 one though... The field and player models arent really nice to look at.. it's acceptable.. but 
 not beautiful.. the animations are pretty solid though.
  
  The sound in this game is average.. tackling and bone crushing sounds are fantastic.. but the voice 
 over.. isn't really up to the standard.. some of the dialoges the players use are quite lame, and 
 it tends to get repetitive after 4 games or so.. the voice acting is not as fierce.. and Bill romanowski.. is 
 average too.. he didnt make it sounds as if he's in the field.. Come on bill.. u should show how tough 
 u are in the game as how u were in the field. and some of the soundtracks are quite boring.
  
  some issues that i still have question is the training part.. It's very hard to train your players 
 and increase your team's ratings.. yes u can see the progress in your players.. but your overall 
 team's rating will be very low to compete in the last two to three games before the finals.. and 
 the A. I.. i think it's scripted at times that no matter what happens.. they will intercept your ball 
 if u pass.. and if u run.. they will cause u to fumble.. i think that part is frustrating.
  
  Overall.. it's a very fun arcade game in terms of gameplay.. but a frustrating part when u think 
 about the A. I... they are not clever, they are not smart, they are not stupid.. but they are just too 
 good in prediciting which way u will go especially during your few games before the finals.. that 
 what really piss me off the most. The graphics and the lacking of management really brings the 
 game down for an xbox 360... But no matter what.. blitz is still the game to get if u like roughness 
 in Football... it's always fun to hit the enemies from every sides and break their bones.. and dominate 
 them in most games..
  
  Well Done Midway and Point Of View.. keep the blitz coming.. with more features and fix some bugs.. and 
 this will be a tottally fun game besides Madden..
  
  NOTE: This game is banned in some countries and there is no NFL License in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho_Teen
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  To give you an idea of what type of game blitz is my first game had a combined score over 100. 
 The game lets you build your own team and gives you tons of controls over everything except the 
 players you sign letting you only make 2 signings in the entire game. The games clash meter could 
 also use some work since it ends up being a sprint button that doesn't refill till the next play. 
 I still highly recommend the game especially since its only 30 dollars. With a little work on the 
 campaign, graphics, and clash meter and this could become the best football game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdMayday911
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Let's say that you do like football games...
  Let's say that you like a little spice on those tackles...
  And let's also say that a few nasty 
 words will make those tackles even spicier...
  
  The game is fun at the beginning. But after game 5 ot 6 it gets repetitive. One thing that I will 
 not take away from this game is that once you nail a few guys with some dirty hits and crack some 
 bones, IT'S FUN!!! The graphics are Original Xbox like (Horrible compared to the XBOX 360)
  
  The gameplay is VERY easy and one can get used to it in about 20-30 minutes easily. The sound 
 is very crappy. Especially the crowd noise. It sounds like they recorded them using an 8-track 
 tape! (Very Crappy!)
  
  The player workout section can get very confusing and once you are done with it, it feels as if 
 you just waisted 30 minutes of your life in it...
  
  Honestly, the game is a rental. Would you spend $50-$60 on a game that has a very low replayability 
 value? And the only thing that makes the game fun is busting bones? Even that gets old after a 
 few games too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  BLITZ the league is a quick pick up to get the hours to pass by but beyond that, they put a lot 
 of work into game thats simplicity was what made the game good.
  
  Gameplay  like most football games it has its standard setting for passing, running, and defensive 
 moves. Its not a s complicated as madden which is good for first timers, but the right analog stick 
 is what you will most use to build up power for the player. The campaign mode is real easy, play 
 your way starting in division 3 and make the playoffs every years. In between you can bet on games 
 to earn more cash for your team to buy performance enhancers, team uniforms or training equipment. 
 Overall this is the bread and butter of the game. I never got to play online so I cant talk about 
 it.
  
  Overall  achievement points are easy to get if you really like he game, but most likely this game 
 will bore you quick with all other games available to play. A rent if your bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants1080
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Blitz is not a game with beautiful graphics, lets get that striaght. The illegal hits and bullet 
 time give it the arcade feel and fun the original games had. Lots of different modes to play in 
 quick play games give it lots of replay value (over 15 bonus modes) . My favorite would have to 
 be butterfingaz mode where every hit causes a fumble which causes a very frantic and fast paced 
 game. Football games are supposed to be fun and this one deffinately is. Career mode consists of 
 a storyline involving a owner building a team from the ground up to try and create a win in the 
 blitz super bowl type game. The team that you build starts in Division III. Their are three divisions 
 1,2, and 3, divison III being the worst. You have to work you way up form division 3 to division 
 1 and win the Championship. The goal is to be the first team to ever go from Division III, to Division 
 I and win the championship in The League history. The good is you get to customize your teams uniforms 
 and faces (the face option do not have as many choices as the uniforms) from thousands of combonations. 
 The bad is the storyline is not very well written and it is mostly told by short cutscenes that 
 make everybody looks evil and money hungry ( but in all honesty The NFL is not much different) . 
 Also it kind of dies down near the end and the A. I. could have some tweaks here and there along 
 with the removal or lower of the rubberband A. I. However, it still makes the game a little more 
 interesting than Madden.
  
  Blitz the league is not the greatest or prettiest football game of all time but it is definately 
 the most enjoyable football game out for the Xbox 360. If you are not a huge NFL fan and are looking 
 for an arcade feeling football experience check this out. The same goes for NFL fans looking for 
 something different from the tired Madden games this is deffinately worth a rental to see if you 
 feel this is worth the $30 dollar price tage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floyd0481
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the other versions so I really can't compare the 360 version to anything 
 else but I found it to be quite amusing. The game play is fun and there are a lot of cool hits 
 that leave you sitting there with the controller in your hands asking, No way, did that just happen, 
 but really some of these hits are just awesome . The graphics aren't as good as I expected but 
 they aren't all that bad either. The sound track and voice overs are well done. The story is a 
 bit under developed but it still is quite interesting. The AI is sometimes not that great and can 
 be a bit frustrating but it is still a fun game to play. I think I liked it because there is a 
 lot you can do with your team and not to mention that it is totally hilarious but this is one I 
 am not going to go out on a ledge to recommend buying. Rent it first and to each his own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beloma
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Overall it was a pretty good game. The graphics weren't the best. They were the same as on Xbox 
 1. Everything was the same from the original. You could have just bought it for cheaper. It is 
 pretty cool with the hard hits. You can even break their bones. Some of the things they say on 
 the field is sometimes funny. There is also a lot of other stuff you can do besides playing football. 
 You can manage your team on your rise to the top. You can buy game enhancing drugs to improve a 
 player's performance. You can also buy better equipment to improve player's performance. You might 
 want to rent this before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenBoy085
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  I have never played a game like this one. From illegal drugs to hookers, this game has all the 
 good mature stuff. I was bored of the Madden junk, so I thought I'd try this. First thing's first: 
 the gameplay. The gameplay seems a little half-baked, but pretty entertaining. If you are the type 
 of person who sees comedy as fun, the gameplay is just for you. It has very funny lyrics in between 
 plays, and if you look close enough you'll see hysterical things in the background theme too. After 
 you've played a good 3 games though, this gets annoying, as you'll find yourself pressing Y before 
 and after every play to shut them up. The AI is very weak, you don't need a strategy to find the 
 flaws. On defense it's pressing turbo and Left-Trigger+A using a LB for a Dirty-hit sack, on offense 
 it's doing a streak to any WR of choice and it is complete 80% of the time. Mutiplayer is the only 
 real challenge, and that is very fun. What's more, there is Clash mode, in which you Matrix time 
 while you go at normal pace, and run 10 yards ahead of your opponents before you're out of it usually. 
 Once you get seven Icons, you can do a trademark move in slow motion, and really break off a huge 
 play. On defense, you can do dirty-hits, by pressing left-trigger and tackle. This enables you 
 to wear out, and sometimes badly injure your opponents. Yes there are injuries, but there's a twist. 
 You have the option to juice a player if the injury is not severe, which means sticking a shot 
 of drugs in the behind of the injured player. Story mode is the same as any nowadays; You recreate 
 a devasted team and turn the blah blah blah. You pick a Head Coach, Defensive and Offensive Coordinator, 
 a doctor, a veteran player on defense, and a rookie draft pick on offense for your franchise. You 
 need to know a few things: there are three divisions, you start out at three working your way up 
 to one, You can train your players, and you can also buy performance-enhancing drugs. It is very 
 entertaining to hear, but it's mostly for show I think, because they're too expensive for how much 
 they actually do. Instead, you also can use money to buy equipment to enhance attributes, and training 
 stages, to boost results of training. One cool feature is battling story mode teams online after 
 you're done with story mode. The graphics are arcadish. They add to the feel but subtract to the 
 potential. It's like, look at all those graphics they aren't using, those would be some pretty 
 sweet pictures if they did use them. The sound is bad at the menu, but good in the game. The Wannabe 
 Gangsta rap tunes mixed with the yelly hard on the ears so-called music is something you truly 
 do not wanna try at home. In the game though, they say some pretty funny stuff, and you can hear 
 the hits a mile away. Although Blitz: The League is different, it masters that fun arcade feel, 
 and can have ample playing time. You'll find yourself sitting hours on end playing this game, stupid 
 as the story mode may sound. If you are tired of Madden and it's problems, this is a good stop. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I rented it, then I went out and bought it. The thing I like 
 about this game is it's not so technical. To me, it is way easier than Maddan and as far as the 
 frame rates go, the game just seems to run much smoother. Maddan has tearing and glitching from 
 time to time, Blitz The League does not. The controls feel more responsive and intuitive. I've 
 never had so much fun playing a football game. Even if you are not a football fan like myself, 
 I still highly recommend picking this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't have the best graphics (they really look like Xbox graphics...) but the gameplay 
 is so addicting! I love filling my bar up with dirty hits and then breaking the bones of the guys 
 on the other team. It is such a hoot! It's also fun to try and get my team into the higher leagues. 
 If you can find this game cheap I would buy it for sure! It's a solid rental and a fun football 
 game. Oh, and the sound of the hits and bones cracking is so so so so so so sweet! If you are looking 
 for a game to burn some time and to have some fun with your friends, this is the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonovanHill1990
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Hey what can in say about blitz TL well its not very diff from the Xbox title to say the leased, 
 lets go into the graphical part of the game well it sucks for the 360, I mean come on it look exactly 
 the as the damn Xbox version if your going to make a game for the 360 midway make the graphics 
 a let better, so it does not look like you just took the Xbox version and just formatted it so 
 it could run on the 360. But what it lacks in graphics I comes back for the winning score in the 
 gameplay sure it the same controls as the Xbox title but hey you cant tell me that breaking someones 
 arm or leg is not fun and the clash meter well that cool to you can slow down time and run fifth 
 teen yards without getting take in out by the other team, oo the campaign has a bad story line 
 but most sports game to day do. I would not recommend buying this game just rent it first then 
 buy it if you like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Blitz the league for the XBOX was one of the surprise titles for me as the console began to wind 
 down last year. Great graphics, fun gameplay, and a distinct lack of anything wholesome.
  Well, the good news is that they didn't change that formula, but that's also the bad news as well. 
 With the exception of adding Romanowski for voiceovers, Blitz: TL for the 360 is identical! I mean 
 it. The only thing that was added for the 360 was really the achievements...
  
  Gameplay - Gotta admit it, the gameplay is fun. 1st and 30, long bomb down the sideline... it's 
 complete for the first, the defender hits... injury! Juice and get your player back quicker? Or 
 let him heal first... On a sidenote, the CPU players have amazing 4th quarter comeback abilities 
 if they are trailing... so just keep piling on the points!
  
  Graphics - on the XBOX the graphics were awesome. For the 360, I am going to have to say only average.
 
  
  Sound - The sound is pretty good, nice on the field noises, bone crushing hits... even decent voiceovers.
 
  
  Value - If you DIDN'T play it on the XBOX, it's worth a rent if you like football and don't care 
 about the rules. If you played it already... it's the same game, so take your pick if you want the 
 $60 price tag...
  
  This Game is NOT FOR CHILDREN! Parents, protect gamer's rights by being aware of what your child 
 is playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I got this game, because I was dead tired of Madden's recycled crap. I had previously bought it 
 for the regular X-Box and gave it a bad review. Now that it's on the 360, I'm giving it a second 
 look.
  The graphics have not been changed much if at all, but they still have all the cool tackles and 
 injury animations. The cutscenes throughout the story line are mediocre.
  The sound has been upgraded with new tracks to listen to, and most are good. The players still are 
 up to par when it comes to smart ass remarks before and after the snap.
  The gameplay is very simple, and just plain fun. Once you play the game is gets very addicting.
 
  If you're looking for a fun football game, tired of recycled Madden year after year, and can handle 
 mature content (violence and steroid abuse) then pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigsaw1991
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Good things: Injuries have to be the best part of the game, and then getting rewarded for it. In 
 Single player you can make you own team and customize thier jerseys, and everyone love customization 
 right? Juicing you players is always fun too.
  
  Bad: The graphics are way too blocky! Its basically the same game from the PS2, Im very disapointed 
 by that, but it is still a very fun game to play. I just dont recommend buying it, better to rent 
 it until prices go down.
  
  Over all the game is very enjoyable. If you are into sports games or violent games you will have 
 fun with this one.
  
  Clash and Unleashed: Clash is earned by getting yards or you causing you opponent to lose yards, 
 Unleashed is earned by getting clash icons from dirty hits, touchdowns, and other moves you can 
 do while using your clash meter such as stiff arm, juke, or spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efwarrior
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  If there is one game to keep a heart beat going on in the next generation games in the sports genre, 
 this can certainly be a contender. This game was a classic back in the day and it's back, bringin 
 its hard hitting to a whole new step... or should i say break? Anyways, this game is freakin fast 
 paced hardcore fun and pandamonium. There is nothin better than blitzing your friend and breaking 
 his quarterbacks bones. This game is with out a doubt more fun when its played with friends. The 
 jukes are sick and well balanced to where you can slow down time and get some fancy jukes off while 
 the defence can counter it once in awhile with a mean dirty hit. And those dirty hits will almost 
 always want to make you get on your feet and scream f**k yeah!! The compain/ dynasty is actually 
 nice because you build up your own team and the cutscenes really put you in the action with the 
 story's plot and scemes of betting. The only thing that isnt great about the game is that it doesnt 
 support the NFL teams, but ofcourse EA was scared of 2K's game that was not only better, but it 
 was $40 cheaper making it a great value. So I can't really blame Midway for EA's wussin out, but 
 havin the NFL teams would have been nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcap89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  This is by far the most fun you can have playing football video games. It is fast, the characters 
 actually run, plus you get to stiff arm, shoulder plow, and break people's bones. You can edit 
 all but 3 (later 4, then back to 3) characters to your liking. I made a Linebacker after myself, 
 and I love doing crushing tackles to the QB. If you don't like football at all, the game is fun 
 for at least the hits, there is nothing better when you are mad than to come on here and first 
 thing you see is your character punch a guy in the face, giving him a concussion. This is by far 
 some of the most fun I have had on a video game. Although, they could have done a little to at 
 least improve the graphics, but whatever, the game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, you pay the 360 price and instead of a next gen title.... I got a disc full of monkey crap. 
 The graphics... terrible, the game play is the same as always with a taste of crap added for extra 
 flavor, and it seems that the new slow motion plays are extremely.... well that was the extra flavor 
 I was talking about. I was a big fan of this series, but it needed a dramatic change for 360 and 
 they did not deliver in any way possible for me. Well if you have to... rent this one if your a 
 fan. If you just like football... stick to Madden! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember the good old Blitz game from back then. Where all the NFL teams were included in 
 the game. The best 8 players from each NFL team were in it. But this is not the same Blitz from 
 back then there's no NFL teams included in this package. Instead you get this made up league of 
 Football teams that let's you do all the bad things you can't do in the NFL. Which is kind of fun. 
 If you're looking for a acrade type of football game then this is the game to get. You have this 
 special meter that if you fill up in goes into this slow motion and you get to perform dirty moves 
 and tackles which is kind of cool. If you're looking for a break from the real football sim out 
 there call madden than you should check this game out. There's also a story mode which let's you 
 start off a franchise. You can choose your own coach, trainer, and draft a rookie. You also get 
 customize your team from scratch. Pick a city, name of the team, and the colors for your jerseys. 
 Which is kind of cool. Also the game comes with a Tutorial on how to play the game since the buttons 
 are a little different here from the madden football game. So if you're a fan of football and also 
 loved playing the old Blitz games from back then you should definitely check this game out. There's 
 also some cool achievements here to collect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Intense, career ending injuries
  ==========
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Graphics seem barely touched
  ============
  
  The game which revolutionized pro 
 football videogames is back and better than ever, starring new bad boy, Bill Romanowski, as Baltimore 
 Bearcats linebacker Bruno Batagglia, and the return of Lawrence Taylor, as Quentin Sands. Step 
 onto the field with more customizable options than ever before, with new cities, logos, and unlockable 
 players which will help you to create what could be the greatest franchise in League history. Take 
 your team online and dominate your opponents using new offensive and defensive evasion moves, or 
 try and defeat the new allstar teams stacked with the best talent on the field. Get ready for 
 another dramatic season of Blitz and experience The League like never before.
  
  Maybe your first impulse is to throw the red flag on this call, but since there are no red flags 
 in pro football's evil twin: the legacy of Blitz continues. Blitz: The League brutalizes and trash 
 talks its way into the next generation with determination and don't-give-a-crap attitude that is 
 almost admirable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a port that has a few additions for the XBOX 360. It is very difficult to say that 
 this game covers the $49.99 plus tax price. I enjoy this game due to being different and being 
 pretty violent. If you enjoyed the other Blitz title for the XBOX you will find yourself thinking 
 did i waste my money? Well, I knew before I bought it, it was going to be similar to the other 
 Blitz. It wears thin when you are playing a season mode... and the achievements are pretty alrite. 
 This is not a terrible game, but needs more to make it stand like music while playing or some controls 
 like Madden or the 2K football series throwing audibles and playcalling better. Other than that 
 it is what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkpanther
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  They really didn't change anything from last year, which probably bugs most of you guys. This is 
 a really good game and really addictive, but they really didn't add anything add anything too the 
 game. Now I love this game still, it is a great game, and the sounds of the game, when somebody 
 break a bone and the way players sound when they tackle eachother thats cool. The only thing that 
 bugged me is it is the same as last year. I gave this game an 8.1 The story mode is great, and 
 so is the game. They just needed to add more stuff to it. If they make another blitz game, I can't 
 wait for it to come out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
