-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitz: The League II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/blitztheleague2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easily the most politically-incorrect sports game on the planet.
 Senseless, gratuitous violence.
 Campaign mode's ridiculous story is surprisingly entertaining.
 Customizable campaign team can be taken online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay shows some of same flaws and repetition of previous Blitz games.
 Clash and Unleashed features are just too powerful.
 Fictional teams.
 Dated graphics with unrealistic character models and animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 195 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Football
Date: Oct 13, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Midway's arcade football franchise breaks all the rules, plus your arms, legs, skull, scrotum, and 
 spleen. If that sounds like fun, it's because it is. 

  While developing Blitz: The League II, Midway asked itself a very simple question: "What would 
 NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell do?" Then Midway did the exact opposite. Though the gameplay is 
 strikingly similar to previous Blitz games, with many of the same flaws, The League II is also 
 a biting parody of professional football and, thanks to several cringe-worthy moments on the field, 
 a sadistic and guilty pleasure.  

           Ruptured spleen or scrotum? The new tackle targeting mechanic gives you choices.      
 

  Without the No Fun League in the way to soften the hits, tone down the language, and brush off-the-field 
 indiscretions under the carpet, Midway was free to develop the foulest and most indecent sports 
 video game on the planet. Among the gruesome injuries presented in slow-motion high definition: 
 broken collarbone; skull fracture; ruptured spleen; broken spine; and the granddaddy of them all, 
 the ruptured scrotum. Thankfully, Blitz 2 is more than the sum of this pile of body parts, and 
 the over-the-top story of the single-player campaign will keep you engaged far more than the typical 
 arcade sports game.  

  You play as a hotshot all-around athlete poised to go professional in any number of sports. You 
 choose instead to play for The League, but under one condition: You only suit for your hometown 
 team (which you will create and customize later) . In a fun twist, you select your offensive and 
 defensive position (you're a phenom, remember?) and improve player attributes in a postdraft press 
 conference. Reporters pepper you with questions such as what you did for fun as a kid. Answering 
 that you liked to wrestle with your brothers will improve your tackling rating, while casually 
 joking that you spent most of your youth running from the police will give you a speed boost. Actor 
 Jay Mohr, in a similar role to the fast-talking sports agent from  Jerry Maguire , guides you through 
 the interview and later helps set up sponsorship and marketing opportunities. Finally, you choose 
 your hometown, team name, colors, logo, and uniforms. The customization options are fairly deep 
 here, but it's too bad you can't select or design your own stadium -- your default home turf is generic 
 in comparison to the giant pyramids of the Mexico City Aztecs or the gritty industry of the Cleveland 
 Steamers' stadium.  

  Money earned from salary and in-game bonuses can be spent on a number of upgrades, including training 
 facilities, as well as on juice. These fictitious performance-enhancing drugs will give you a statistical 
 boost come Sunday, but at the risk of getting caught by the league. You can juice up to three players 
 a week with a laundry list of supplements that vary in price and legality. If caught, your team 
 will come under close scrutiny from league officials and you'll lose access to these valuable drugs. 
 And yes, they are valuable. Success in Blitz is dependent on balancing your juice usage and team 
 risk. Keeping your star players on the field with an injury-reducing drug (or taking out opposing 
 team captains with a strength boost to your defense) is key to winning ballgames. Assigning juice 
 to your players at the risk of getting caught by the league adds another level of depth not typically 
 seen in this genre of sports game. BALCO would be proud.  

  You also receive upgrades in a few other ways. Your agent will frequently call with sponsorship 
 opportunities, but you'll have to impress on the field to earn your spot on a Wheaties box. To 
 cash in, you must complete an in-game challenge, like scoring more touchdowns or recording more 
 sacks than an opposing team captain. Sponsors will get you access to better equipments -- the Azimuth 
 shoe company will give you top-of-the-line cleats that add several points to your speed rating, 
 for example.  

           Something doesn't seem right here.      

  Because you're the face of the franchise, you're also a hit with the ladies. You'll meet a handful 
 of girlfriends during cutscenes, and if you impress them on the field by completing a personal 
 challenge (like injuring an ex-boyfriend, for example) , you'll be rewarded with marketing deals, 
 bargain-priced juice, and even a new team medical facility. In addition, you get to see a saucy 
 bedroom cutscene with your flame of the week. Sometimes she'll even have a friend... While pleasing 
 a girlfriend is awesome, it would have been a better system if you could pick and choose your ladies 
 instead of being assigned them as part of scripted cutscene. But oh, what a custscene it is.  

 
  The overall story is fraught with sex, drugs, scandal, and betrayal, a not so subtle blend of 
 ESPN's pro football parody  Playmakers  (the inspiration for the original Blitz: The League, and 
 penned by the same writer) , and  The Longest Yard . Lawrence Taylor returns as bad-boy linebacker 
 Quentin Sands and is assigned by the corrupt commissioner to join you on your squad. The overall 
 story is somewhat predictable, but it's a shame most sports games don't have this much personality, 
 even if that personality is sadistic and profane. With fictional teams, Blitz still manages to 
 get you emotionally involved in the star players of the league. The cutscenes that introduce opposing 
 teams and their alpha-dog captains are far more engaging than the simple ratings comparison menu 
 screen of other games. Imagine if a franchise game in Madden against the Patriots opened with an 
 NFL Films scouting report of Tom Brady picking apart a defense, but then getting shut down by the 
 Giants pass rush in the Super Bowl. While that kind of personal touch has long been lacking in 
 traditional sports simulations, you feel it here.     

   

  Finally, you take to the field. Much of the eight-on-eight over-the-top arcade action that has 
 defined the Blitz franchise returns. The original Blitz: The League introduced a clever clash and 
 unleashed system. By tallying big plays, you fill a clash meter that, when employed, not only slows 
 down time, but every player around you. You easily burst past would-be tacklers into the secondary. 
 Special moves, dirty hits, and touchdown celebrations will earn you clash icons. When you earn 
 six icons, you unlock unleashed; Midway's answer to the gamebreaker in NFL Street. On the offensive 
 side of the ball, you either sprint in slow-motion to the end zone, or perform a canned move like 
 an ankle-breaking (literally) juke, or a stiff arm that is liable to break a cornerback's vertebrae. 
 By no means are you invincible. Only by timing the move perfectly will you execute it, a great 
 way to ensure in multiplayer games that the defense still has a chance. And on defense, an unleashed 
 tackle will either reduce a ball carrier's stamina severely, force a fumble, or break a bone. Or 
 all three.  

           It's you versus the commish in campaign mode.      

  Both clash and unleashed are very fun to use, but they're just too overpowering. The game becomes 
 less about quick reflexes and any football strategy and more about keeping and maintaining clash. 
 Once you have clash, you can easily break off another big play, refilling your clash in the process. 
 The rich get richer. Conversely, if you haven't earned any clash, an offense can run all over you. 
 Is Blitz still fun to play? Absolutely. But this particular design choice will put off football 
 purists. Of course, Blitz has never been for purists. They wouldn't stand the late hits system, 
 a simple button-mashing mechanic that lets you take the helmet off of a tackled ball carrier and 
 beat him with it, draining his stamina in the process. Nor would a purist care for the precision 
 tackles, huge hits in which you select the target area and are rewarded with an injury cutscene 
 that makes Joe Theisman's broken leg look like shin splints in comparison. But if the sanctity 
 of football isn't an issue for you, or your name is Bill Romanowski, you won't be able to get enough. 

  Gimmicks aside, the basic gameplay is still eerily similar to Blitz titles from five years ago, 
 and comes with the same annoying flaws. Tackles are mostly magnetic, and putting pressure on the 
 quarterback is simply a matter of moving a linebacker to the line of scrimmage, holding down turbo, 
 and then hitting the dive button at the snap. If you are picked up by a blocker, the quarterback 
 will still be pressured to throw short and early, not very effective when first downs are awarded 
 after gaining 30 yards. If you aren't picked up, you'll likely get a sack. And while pass interference 
 is a hallowed tradition in the Blitz universe, it's just too easy to tackle a wide receiver before 
 he has a chance to make a catch. As a receiver, it would have been a vast improvement to have some 
 sort of way to avoid this traditionally legal hit, be it via a jostling system or simply hurdling 
 the offending player. In the end, Blitz: The League II, like most other arcade sports games before 
 it, does not have enough to overcome its repetitious gameplay.  

  When you're finished up with the campaign, you can take that created team and your star player 
 online. Though created teams start out the same, you make several key personnel decisions that 
 will most likely differ from your online opponents. The offense and defense will both surely run 
 though your created superstar and the competitive game will change drastically depending on if 
 that player is a quarterback/safety or a running back/defensive end. There's also a separate set 
 of specialty games that are fun with a friend, such as prison ball on maximum security exercise 
 grounds, and a no helmets and pads game with twice the brutal injuries.  

           The unleashed drop kick is an effective tackle.      

  If Blitz: The League II looks 
 more like a PlayStation 2 game, it's most likely because the art style hasn't changed much since 
 the original game was released on that platform. The canned animations are awesome, from diving 
 catches to jolting stiff arms, but the in-game movement is twitchy, jerky, and downright inhuman. 
 Because there are little to no physics involved in changing direction, juking is only possible 
 with canned animations as a result of Clash. The commentary fares better, and is often laugh-out-loud 
 funny for fans of comedian Frank Caliendo and his tongue-in-cheek John Madden impression. The lines 
 and lines of recorded profanity are also spot on -- not a kids' game, if you haven't caught on by 
 now. The effects are equally visceral -- the sound of a burst spleen will make you cower.  

  Blitz: The League II has succeeded where almost all other arcade sports titles have failed: It's 
 an engaging single-player experience. Though the gameplay still shows some of the flaws and repetition 
 of earlier Blitz titles, the over-the-top presentation will keep you thoroughly entertained or, 
 at the very least, offended. If you're a sports fan looking for more than a cut-and-dry simulation 
 experience, and you're not put off by sex, drugs, and profanity, it's time to learn the power of 
 the dark side of football.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll preface by saying that I'm really NOT a football fan. I like Rugby, Hockey, MMA... sports 
 not only more likely to cause bodily injury, but to celebrate it. This is why I really like BLITZ.
 
  
  By delving into a "Playmakers"-esque storyline the ugly, dirty side of professional football comes 
 out. Drugs, sex, and LOTS of broken bones. This formula made the original Blitz stand out in a 
 sea of cookie-cutter football, but it was also saddled with incredibly long load times. Thankfully 
 this problem has been rectified.
  
  BLITZ II takes the savage, souped-up action of the original and kicks it up a notch. Brutal X-Rays 
 of injuries have been upgraded to near-sickening muscle/bone graphics, including the stomach-churning 
 ruptured testicle. Believe me, when you fracture a skull and suddenly you see DAYLIGHT hit the 
 brain... oh man, HERE is the violence I've been waiting for!
  
  Play is virtually identical to the previous installment. BLITZ is high-octane/low rules football. 
 With the power of the Clash meter your players are virtual supermen. Considering it's 30 yards 
 for a 1st down and late hits and pass interference are all part and partial... you'll need them 
 to be. Soup up your players on the drug cocktail of the week and see them impervious to the frequent 
 injuries that abound, or juice the right linebacker and he may break a record for broken bones 
 in one quarter. Beyond that the controls are familiar to anyone who's played pretty much any football 
 game... ever.
  
  The soundtrack that accompanies the game is so-so. A mix of ego-stoaked rap and dingy metal. The 
 best thing about it is that the 360 can replace the game's soundtrack with music on your harddrive 
 or your computer. As for the actual soundeffects they are brutally fantastic. One cannot say enough 
 about Frank Caliendo as the faux John Madden announcer. He's enough to make you drop the controller 
 and convulse with laughter. More than once I screwed up a play still trying to recover from what 
 he said! The on field-banter is what you'd expect, and the voice acting is top notch.
  
  You're required to build a custom team for the campaign mode and although the method of it's creation 
 is a little obtuse, it all works out okay. Your star player answers questions in a press conference; 
 then his answers determine his position, qualities, and the overall strengths of your team. Once 
 you get past that press conference the real fun begins. There are a ton of team logos, cities, 
 and uniform/color combinations to choose from. If you're like me you'll end up making about 6 campaign 
 teams just to further populate The League.
  
  I can't tell you anything about multiplayer as I haven't tried it. I still haven't been able to 
 convince myself to pay 50 dollars a year to Microsoft for what Sony gives away for free.
  
  Overall BLITZ is a blast... unless you're a football purist. Then the late hits, pass interferance, 
 and excessive yardage for downs will grate on you. For those of us who think that football would 
 be more entertaining if the violence was ramped up: Blitz II is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiLPri3st08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  the game Blitz the League 2 is very unique and has several modes to keep the player intrested one 
 of the ones that stands out the most is the campaign mode which returns from the last game. you 
 go in and create a player and a team to go through three years of "the league". it's broken up 
 into three divisions that you can play through and try to improve your player. this mode is also 
 full of nice looking cutscenes but the thing is there should be more of them. other modes consist 
 of prison ball and other bone crusing things of that nature. the controls are fairly simple and 
 the announcers are hisarical. honestly you can't go wrong with Frank Caliendo. also it's nice to 
 see stripper like cheerleaders when your choosing a play. overall this game is fun to play and can 
 be a very good fix if you just watched the new longest yard. now i guess i will explain the flaws 
 in this game. one is the slightly repetitive gameplay. some annomations will be played 2x in a 
 row. of course there is still the ocassional glitching. also sometimes it seems like that when 
 ever the computer needs a score it gets it. well that's the good and the bad about Blitz the League 
 2.
  
  final verdict: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerr17
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  well i got the game a couple of days ago, and i thought it was going to be good. but when i popped 
 it in, i was disapointed. first off, the graphics sucked and the charater animations where poor. it 
 took a little time to get used to it all but i eventually got the gist. okay, heres the good and 
 the bad. The good: solid game funcions and the presitaton. The bad: poor graphics and character animations. bottom 
 line ,rent before you buy.
  
  graphics:4/10 old generaton grahics?
  
  gamplay:7.9/10
  
  storyline and presontation:8.10
  
  learning curve:6.5/10
  
  the bottom line: like i 
 said above, rent before you buy. overall score: well this game has its fair share of lackluster game 
 components and it has a few points where you smell cheese but over all score 7.0 maybe insead of 
 this game, you can buy madden 08 which has much better graphics, character animations ,and gamolay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThriNLive
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a sim this is not your game. While this game may be an arcade however, there's 
 very realistic strategies that you use during games. The campaign mode makes sure you don't get 
 bored before finishing the game. The harder the matches get, the more fun the game is! Certainly 
 has some replay value in the future. Graphic-wise it's avarage, but personally i can overlook that 
 if it offers other things to make up for it. The brutal tackling, rude language, blood splattering 
 views and the treating of injuries (which you'll mess up often) don't get boring fast and make 
 this game a true Midway game :)
  
  Tip: When you decide on what position Franchise plays (decided during the interview) make sure 
 it's a position where the ball lands often. Challenges are offered during matches and Franchise 
 often has to play a role in it, which is difficult if he doesn't get the ball.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: texpsych67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about Blitz II isn't the gratuitous violence. It isn't the fact that you can load 
 your team to the eyeballs in dangerous chemicals. It isn't the fast and furious game play. Mainly 
 because all of the aforementioned elements were in the last Blitz game. 
  
  No, the best thing is the Madden commentary from Frank. I bet EA wishes they'd thought of it, because 
 the real John Madden is about as interesting as a paper clip. Now if we could only get a baseball 
 game with Will Ferrell doing commentary as Harry Carey. 
  
  This is pretty much the exact same game as the first one, with some good additions (press conference, 
 Madden on acid commentary, on field triage) . But for some reason, I keep playing this damn game. 
 I have Fable 2 and Dead Space, and what do I play? Freaking Blitz 2. It's a visceral, fast, no 
 thought required open can of whoop ass. 
  
  If you like the first Blitz, you'll like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Blitz The League II is much better than the previews one but yet lack a lot to get a 10.
  If you like Football games this is for you , its much more fun than NFL for sure, and with all 
 the dirt hits you can land you will play this game a lot, just because is so much fun to break 
 other players bones and destroy organs... man its awesome!!
  But well the game is not all good....
  The visuals are great like 8/10 , and playing in snow 
 or rain is much more fun and the visuals look better (strange i know) .
  The sounds i think are like 5/10 , some sounds are just to stupid and the soundtrack is even worst.
 
  Gameplay is just right i would give like 7/10 with some good effort. You will spend some time 
 to master the controls. 
  And now the Fun rating. 10/10 believe me for a sport game this blitz is way to good on fun. 
 
  Well i really enjoyed the game but there are always people who don't like it , my advice here 
 is rent it first and then if you like it buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFBH
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I got Blitz the league. The first one on playstation 2. I thought it was really 
 hard and total BS in many ways. I figured though I would give The League II a shot. Its even more 
 bogus. You can win every game all "season" and then during the championship game you get blown 
 out. No matter how smart you play or well you play Defense. It makes the game completly un fun. 
 I seriously threw this game in the garbage.
  
  Also, you couldn't edit your depth charts or make subs. I know its supposed to be more arcady but 
 c'mon. Another gripe, how come you cannot create a player. I was a QB in high school and would 
 like to create myself. The problem is, I am lefty, not righty so my guy is inaccurate. 
  
  Basically, this game is a total waste of time and money. I would not suggest this game to anyone 
 who is looking to enjoy football. If you want over the top football just play Madden or NCAA with 
 the rules off. Blitz: The League II is pathetic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGhOsT187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  games a blast~ Also can be hard ,i only just made it out of the prison after the division 3 championship,
 
  The prison is a challenge for sure ,Prison rules, wanted to whip my controller a few times bahahahahahah
 
  
  i Think Jay does a great job as the Agent and LT was great !!!! Damn they mad Lt in the cut scenes 
 really look like him
  
  i could see where the game purest AKA EA sports lovers could try and bag on this game~You put this 
 sucker in with a few Homies and you will have a way bigger blast of a time ripping it up the any 
 EA sports games
  
  Alot will love this ,, the football gamer purest probably will cry a bit .mostly dudes who never 
 even played in high school and WOnt play a game with out official Teams, for once unlike 2k8.... The 
 make believe teams were as tight and as creative then the real NFl teams...... Honolulu....... and 
 my fav Minnesota reapers
  
  i play to many games to play EA for long fifa , madden ncaa ,2k8, but this filled my short attention 
 span
  
  Out of all sports games from the even the 90z to now Only blitz has ever tickled my pickle~ all 
 the other games So boring~ Sure has changed from the 90z versions
  
  
   
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
