-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blue Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/bluedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's fun to watch your dragons do battle.
 Occasional minigames mix things up.
 Class system lets you customize your characters in endless ways.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unfortunately, class system turns party members into a generic mishmash of spells and skills.
 You won't care about the long, boring story or cookie-cutter characters.
 Visuals are bland and rely too much on blurry depth-of-field tricks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.7, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 3,085 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Mistwalker
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blue Dragon is an unexceptional RPG that does just enough to escape mediocrity. 

  Blue Dragon is not a game that is going to elicit a strong reaction from you. It's not terrible, 
 or particularly great or memorable, so the most remarkable thing about it is how unremarkable it 
 is. It's big: three DVDs big, thanks to loads of cutscenes and voice clips. But it isn't grand 
 and sweeping, and it isn't particularly charming, either. Blue Dragon is simply "there." If you 
 wanted to play a Japanese role-playing game on your Xbox 360, this will get the job done. If you 
 wanted to play something that makes an impact, you'll need to keep waiting.  

           Enjoy the exotic robot dance shows. Sunday matinee is half price.      

  The game 
 is held back foremost by the story. Main characters Shu, Kluke, and Jiro have had their village 
 destroyed by a land shark. Oh, not the one from  Saturday Night Live . This one's mechanical, and 
 it sets into play the main story, which consists mostly of chasing hypervillain Nene across one 
 of the blandest, most unexciting fantasy worlds in recent memory. The narrative is 50 hours of 
 lukewarm plot development that meanders sleepily along until the third disc. The conclusion packs 
 some excitement, but not enough to justify the preceding hours of boring build up.  

  As if the poor pace of the story isn't enough, the lead characters are barely worthy of bit parts 
 in better RPGs. Shu mostly pumps his fist and proclaims with a raspy whine that he will never give 
 up, which will at least make you thankful that someone cares about the whole affair. Kluke just 
 widens her eyes and looks sweet, and Jiro's most interesting idiosyncrasy is how he waves his hand 
 dismissively when he casts a spell. The two additions to the party, Zola and Marumaro, manage to 
 make things a little less bland. Zola tries, anyway, with her sultry voice and cool demeanor. As 
 for Marumaro, well, he's an annoying, screechy-voiced feline whelp who will make you appreciate 
 the more boring characters. There are occasional attempts at humor, and you may chuckle in spite 
 of yourself: Marumaro's crush on Zola is an occasional source of amusement, for example. Yet most 
 attempts to establish character are simply forced, so the few quiet moments your party members 
 share have no emotional resonance whatsoever.  

  Everything else just feels like a struggle to rise above the story, and there are some mild successes 
 in this regard. To start with, there aren't any weapons. Instead, your party members have shadows 
 in the form of -- you guessed it -- blue dragons, and they do all the fighting and spellcasting on 
 your behalf. It's like having constant summons, and it's fun to watch your shadows pummel the enemy, 
 whether by standard attack or spell. The battles themselves aren't anything special and don't do 
 much with the usual turn-based formula, but there is a decent variety of skills to mess with during 
 encounters.  

  Blue Dragon tries to stand out from the pack in a few other ways. First you have the class system, 
 liberally borrowed from the similar mechanics of Final Fantasy V. Each character starts with a 
 set of available classes, and as he or she levels, so does the equipped class. Over time, you open 
 up more classes, and you can switch from one to the other at any time, as long as you aren't in 
 battle. It's a flexible system because most spells and skills you earn for one class can be transferred 
 to others. The biggest problem is that your characters, who are already lacking personalities, 
 lose even more individuality; they can be anything you want at any time, and the chances are that 
 they'll be effective in every area. In fact, to earn better abilities and unlock some of the insanely 
 difficult achievements, you're forced to switch out classes all the time. Flexibility is a good 
 thing, but the way it's done in Blue Dragon makes every already-predictable character become an 
 even more generic jack-of-all-trades.  

  Despite the weirdly generic way your characters turn out, the game also has an "attack circle" 
 battle system, which is where you'll get the most satisfaction from Blue Dragon. You'll never run 
 into any random battles, given that you can pick and choose your fights. However, when you are 
 ready to jump into the fray, you can string encounters together in a chain. You do so by getting 
 close to multiple enemies, pulling a trigger, and choosing to battle everyone in your attack radius. 
 It's a great system that offers a reward, such as increased agility or physical defense, between 
 successive battles. Furthermore, depending on the class and skills you have equipped, some attacks 
 can be charged up by holding the A button, though doing so will likely change the turn order. That's 
 another nifty system, because you will always need to weigh the potential benefit of the stronger 
 charged attack versus handing your foe an earlier turn.  

  But don't get too excited about the minimal random-battle grind, because instead, you have random 
 item inspection. You can walk up to almost anything and find gold, items, and other things. It's 
 not just a matter of opening the scattered chests or checking out the occasional random barrel; 
 everything is a potential hiding place. It has the double effect of encouraging you to check every 
 single thing you pass in the hope that something is in there (surely it makes sense that gold would 
 be hidden inside a stuffed turkey) , as well as giving you plenty of potions and money. It's obviously 
 helpful to have a bunch of stuff, but it's also part of another minor shortcoming: Blue Dragon 
 is super easy. Potions and spells are really cheap, it's easy to get gold, and you'll outlevel 
 the artificial intelligence with a minimum of arbitrary battles. The final disc ramps up the challenge 
 a bit, but you should still be able to get through it without any major difficulties. Thankfully, 
 there are a few minigames scattered around to break things up, which makes for a nice change of 
 pace. You'll attack other spaceships with your own vessel, guard a traveling caravan of wagons, 
 and perform contextual button presses here and there.  

           Charged attacks lend a bit of strategy to battle.      

  The visuals are polished 
 and colorful, but they also lack character. Akira Toriyama's character design isn't nearly as interesting 
 as the awesome, detailed work he did in Dragon Quest VIII. Admittedly, the shadows are pretty cool 
 to look at, as are many of the enemy designs, such as the awesome mural monsters. The battle camera 
 is also well done, and it zooms and swoops cinematically during critical hits and other pivotal 
 attacks. But in keeping with Blue Dragon's nothing-special sensibilities, free-roam environments 
 are endlessly boring and often striking in their emptiness. There are also a lot of blurry depth-of-field 
 effects that make objects in the distance appear all fuzzy when the camera focuses on the foreground. 
 It's overdone and feels like a trick to make the graphics look better than they really are. It's 
 also worth noting that battles often result in a notable amount of sluggishness, which doesn't 
 make a lot of sense, considering that nothing appears to be pushing the limits of the hardware. 
 Nobuo Uematsu's score fares better, mostly because it stays out of the way. His battle rock music 
 is fine, but its repeated so often, it loses its impact.  

  Blue Dragon may be the first Japanese RPG we've seen in a while on the Xbox 360, but it's also 
 totally forgettable, telling a story that didn't beg to be told in a game that doesn't do much 
 to stand out. If you're into role-playing games, you'll find that Blue Dragon is long and mostly 
 serviceable, but it doesn't give you much back for all the time you'll spend on it. Let's hope 
 there's another RPG for the platform soon that gives us more to sink our teeth into.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (195 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shadowscale18
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The Japanese have been making good RPGs for a long time, like Final Fantasy and... Final Fantasy, 
 and some more Final Fantasy. But when they stray from their FF formula and try to make a new game, 
 (based off of an anime of the same name and degree of horribleness) , they falter and end up taking 
 Mrs. Fun and raping her. That being said, Blue Dragon is a horrible, HORRIBLE game that takes everything 
 a game should be, and destroys it.
  
  The storyline follows a group of children (I swear JRPG developers are all pedophiles) as they 
 fight to avenge their homeland from being ravaged by, and I am not making this up, a mechanical 
 Land Shark Robot. You heard me. It turns out it's some intricate plot to destroy the land or something. 
 Honestly, I didn't finish the game because I got so frustrated that I started urinating fire. The 
 storyline is not only cliche, but uninteresting, like the charcters. The main character looks, 
 sounds, and behaves like Gohan from DBZ, and the other characters look like standard JRPG kids. 
 All in all, it's a very average story for a very horrible game.
  
  The gameplay is your standard turn based RPG that does nothing new. Quite frankly, this system 
 has aged about as well as Anne Frank, and she's dead. Its your basic, run of the mill turn based 
 game with little frills and zero thrills. On the one side, there are no random encounters. Your 
 enemies roam the land and you can choose your battles. This may sound good, but honestly, the battles 
 are boring and if you're like me, you'll just run past them and try not to be bothered.
  
  The action is sort of fun, as there are no weapons to be used. Instead, your party members unlock 
 ghost dragons to use (by eating an egg or something) and they fight for you. They have a variety 
 of attacks but they all look the same. However, on the plus side, their animations are sort of 
 cool, and your party members have some cool looking ghost monsters. Ironically, you're the only 
 one with a blue dragon, as other animals include a blue ox (Paul Bunyan game?) and a blue bird-like 
 thing. You heard me.
  
  Graphically, this game is very, very awful. They look like last gen graphics, and the enviroments 
 are badly textured and grainy. The character models are also equally as bad, with blocky arms, 
 legs and such. Animation wise, this game is very poor. They seem mechanical and robotic, and just 
 plain bad. This game does not look good, period.
  
  Sound effects and music? I wish. Not in Blue Dragon... with standard effects and very crappy music, 
 the game seems to scream at you "Please, don't play me!" Advice you had better take, too. On the 
 side of voice acting, the main character sounds like Gohan, the other party members' lines are 
 deadpan and droll, and all in all, I'd rather punctue my ear drum with a shard of the disc than 
 play it. You heard me.
  
  In case you haven't caught on, I hate Blue Dragon. A lot. I don't reccomend this game to anyone, 
 and it's awful presentation will turn most people off. However, if you have never played a video 
 game before, have no idea what fun is, are blind, deaf, mute, and dead, Blue Dragon is a must have. 
 You heard me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanSRobb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  "Shallow characters", "Shallow plot", "Too much customization" are many things said about this 
 game. What people DON'T realize, is that this game is more or less how old RPGs play. With simplistic, 
 easy to understand character backgrounds, a simple story, classic turn-based battles, and a Final 
 Fantasy V-esque class system, this game truly makes for a good RPG experience.
  
  The characters and story are very simplistic. Why complain about it? Did anyone ever complain that 
 the first six Dragon Quest games (Which are selling well, even now on their rereleases) have incredibly 
 simple characters? Even the main character has no established personality, simply because he's 
 what you think of him. He has very little impact on other characters. Why do people complain about 
 Blue Dragon, and not about Dragon Quest? Same thing can be said about the first Final Fantasy, 
 which I think Blue Dragon is a throwback to.
  
  The story is simple and easy to understand. Revenge. That's the drive behind most characters. Sure, 
 there are cliches here and there, but this late into making games and stories, what AREN'T cliches? 
 Just because everyone else did them before doesn't mean Blue Dragon can't have it's own touch on 
 them.
  
  The class system is bashed for being "too customizable". Too customizable? Making the characters 
 an all-star team with powerful abilities just because they have limited personalities is bad? Did 
 no one play the original FFIII, which was even remade with MORE cookie-cutter characters?
  
  With an all-star team of men in the industry, like Akira Toriyama as artist, Nobuo Uematsu 
 as composer, and Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Final Fantasy, as head of Mistwalker, this 
 game definitely was bashed too hard and not appreciated for what it was...
  
  Old-school RPG goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abduhl_ahlzared
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:26 am PT
Review:  This is definitely a game for fans of old-school JRPGs. It has a lot of classic (read: cheesy) 
 plot mechanisms (kids trying to save their village, evil wizards tormenting innocent towns-folk 
 for no apparent reason, etc) that won`t turn any heads these days. 
  
  The graphics are very nice, however the character models are quite simple and a bit childish. 
 
  
  I would say the music fits the game very well, and the voices and sounds are quite effective (although 
 there are a few really annoying characters) .
  
  If you persist and can see past the bland story though, you`ll find great game play, an outstanding 
 skill development system and some really fun battles and mini-games.
  In order to complete all the side quests, you`ll need to put in quite a few hours, so I would say 
 it`s definitely worth buying if you can find it for $20 or less. I had a very good time playing 
 through it, but it`s not anything that hasn`t been done before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_wolfstein
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great music, solid graphics, addictive game play, nice controls, cool summonings.
  
  Cons: Lag down in battles, been there done that storyline, lag time throughout game.
  
  I enjoy 
 playing through the game. One thing anyone will notice is there is repetitive lag times all through 
 the game, especially in battle. Installing the CDs to the hard drive help some with the lag but 
 not a whole lot. What stood out the most for me was the superb music. I found myself just sitting 
 there listen to the music. The corpeal summonings were really cool to watch although you do not 
 acquire them until Disc 3. 
  The characters had interesting background stories with fairly good voice acting (Shu sound like 
 a woman with a deep voice) . 
  
  Overall, this is a solid turn base RPG and I would recommend it for those who love this type of 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I am a so-so fan of RPG's. I dont love or hate them. I just consider myself to be super super picky 
 about them. But I always give them a try even if they may not look like my cup of tea. I occasionaly 
 get surprised on how good an RPG is. Blue Dragon is definetly one of these games. I thought it 
 looked pretty dumb but decided to give it a try. And I gotta say. Despite the way it looks its 
 actually really good. 
  Blue Dragon has characters designed by Akira Toriyama ( Dragon Ball Z , Chrono Trigger) . And unlike 
 most people, I DONT like his character design. I hate how bland and boring and same everyone looks. 
 But thats just me. So at first this was a big turn off to me. But I still popped it in my 360. 
 
  I was really surprised how well the battle flowed and how, even though it is turn based, the actions 
 seemed to happen as soon as you hit the button. Very good thing. Also, another good thing is the 
 fact that there is no random battles. You can avoid almost everyone! And you can open up this big 
 circle and combine a bunch of enemies into one fight and take out a whole area. And if they are 
 different types of monsters then they fight each other. Thats pretty sweet. Also the enemies arent 
 constantly regenerating. Love it! 
  The story is pretty ok. Its what you'd expect. Mean bad guy does bad stuff and you and your buddies 
 go on a loooooong journey to get him. But its good enough to keep you interested.
  I say long because this is probably the lengthiest JRPG on the 360. Seriously, one quick run through 
 takes at least 40 hours.
  One negative thing I gotta say about it is the hidden items through out the land. You can practicly 
 click on everything and get something like gold, items and experience. You might be wondering why 
 thats bad? Well, Its super sweet at first and then it just is annoying knowing that you gotta spend 
 so much time in an area clicking on EVERYTHING!! Ugh.
  So Blue Dragon isnt anything special at all but its also not bad at all. Definetly not as bad as 
 it looks. I thing everyone who likes RPG's should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anmvamp
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon was the first game developed by the grand master of all RPGs, Mr. Hirinobu Sakaguchi. 
 It also features a wonderfully composed soundtrack from Nobuo Umetsu, and art design by legendary 
 manga artist Akira Toriyama. You can feel all of these influences pulsing from the game the moment 
 you put in. The title screen song instantly brings back memories of games such as Final Fantasy 
 10 and 7, while the first screens of the game look as if they have been pulled from the world of 
 Dragon Ball. Akira Toriyama's influences on the game can be felt throughout the adventure as you 
 run into some familiar looking monsters and creatures. Even the story line at times feels as if 
 Toriyama had direct influence upon it. 
  
  As with most RPGs these days, the story line is as follows: Bad guy does something bad to innocent 
 village folk, hot headed kids/teens/knights/whathaveyou feel like it is their responsibility to 
 deal with this bad guy and therefore hunt him down. Is it generic? Kind of. But it is not the ending 
 that matters, it is how you get there that counts. From your first encounter with the lands interesting 
 inhabitants (sheep people!?) to your awaken from a coma to discover a town plagued by human eating 
 trees, there is always something interesting to be found. Once you can look past the grand tale, 
 and focus on the little specifics you see just how charming the game really is.
  
  Combat is combat. It is the the way it has been in RPGs for decades. Turn based, and that is the 
 way it should be. If you expect an RPG to provide intense action and grueling battles then you 
 need to look elsewhere. The Shadow customization is pretty cool, and there are endless possibilities 
 for combinations. One could have a black mage (in the rear formation of course) who has the strength 
 of the sword master, the ability to attack twice per turn, AND have long range attacks so they 
 don't suffer from the rear formation lack of attack power like usual. Utilizing all the options 
 which are given to you is quite the task, which then hints at signs of replay value. 
  
  Speaking of replay value, for those that think beating the game on normal is too easy, there are 
 harder difficulties, including a free download of the hardest of hard difficulties... if you think 
 you're up for the challenge. 
  
  I'm not usually a fan of RPGs featuring children as the main characters, but Blue Dragon kept me 
 going till the end. Featuring the voice actor Izzy, my favorite character from Digimon many many 
 years ago, Shu became more of an acceptable character as time went on. Kluke and Jiro are pretty 
 stock characters, not adding much depth to the plot, but each do possess a unique background that 
 come into play every once in a while through out the story. Maru Maro is annoying, that is for 
 sure. I can't stand his voice, but he can be quite comedic at times, and Zola is just the typical 
 badass chick we all want. Shes the oldest, most reasonable (she thinks logically, not hopefully) , 
 and has the coolest shadow creature by far... but I'll just let you discover that for yourself. 
 
  
  Blue Dragon is a worthwhile game if you are looking for a solid RPG for the Xbox360, and with a 
 sequel in the works it would only seem natural to see what this game is about. I would definitely 
 recommend it over Infinite Undiscovery and Enchanted Arms (though both of those have their good 
 points too) , but seeing as I have yet to purchase Lost Odyssey or Eternal Sonata I will refrain 
 from comparison. With a price tag maxing out a $20 brand new how can you go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'll begin by saying that I'm a really big JRPG fan. I say this because it seems that since 
 the game is on the xbox 360, tons of non RPG player rated it badly. Don't trust them.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really great. Better than most games that popped after this one. For 
 an exemple, Lost Odyssey have better graphics in some way. But in general, the graphics of blue 
 dragon have more vibrant colors, less aliasing, and looks way better because of the simplicity 
 of the characters. If you liked the graphics of Dragon Quest 8, you will be impressed with this 
 game. The only downside is that the game has framerate drops when, for exemple, you do some techniques. 
 Wich is not bad but still, you can see it.
  
  Sound: Master Nobuo Uematsu is by far the best soundtrack maker again. This game have a really 
 superb soundtrack with the exception of the boss battles, which is a really not cool sound, lol. 
 Still, you get used to it and right now I like it! :D It's just not the sound you would expect 
 at all, especially since it's voiced!!
  
  Story: The story is childish, and it is the only downside of the game for me, since I'm 23. A lot 
 of Poo ennemies (poo serpent, etc.) and you can "search the poo" left by monsters to find items 
 in it... well. Also, the story of the 1st half of the game is mainly for kids. But it ranks up 
 during the game. The story is getting by far better and better, and at the 3rd disc, I can say 
 I really love my crew. The character have a personnality, and background story. 
  
  Gameplay: The difficulty start really TOO easy, then the difficulty rank up. Not as much as Dragon 
 Quest 8 for exemple (which I finished at level 34, that was hard, lol) , but sometimes boss battles 
 get really hard. Also, you can play on the hard difficulty if you want. But I'm pretty sure you'll 
 have to battles all ennemies on your quest if you want to beat the bosses, or you'll have to be 
 well organised. In general, you have shadows and they learn skills depending on their class. You 
 can set them as monk, white mage, black mage, support mage, thief, etc. You get the drift. But 
 this can be changed anytime. The abilities you learned can be used even when you set another class. 
 For exemple, you can be a white mage that have the ability "black magic lvl x" and an ability that 
 let you have the same defense you tank class have, wich is cool. The combats are REALLY fast and 
 really fun. And installed on the HDD, the game load fast, and the battles load REALLY fast.
  
  Finally: The game is now 20$, by all means BUY IT! It's better then any other JRPG I've played 
 on the x360 but tales of vesperia. Better than lost odyssey for me (I LOVED dragon quest 8 and 
 this game ressemble it a LOT) !!! If you loved dragon quest 8, BUY!, if you loved FF4-5, BUY, if 
 you love JRPGs, BUY. 
  
  ... What, you're still reading this? Go buy the game, it's worth 59$ so for 19$ or 9-14$ used, 
 it's a miracle! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is a RPG game that is made by creators of both Final Fantasy and The Chrono series 
 (Chrono Trigger, Chrono Cross) . While Blue Dragon does not end add anything new to the turn-based 
 RPG Roster it does satisfy your RPG needs. It reminds me ofthe old days when the world had the 
 PS1 it is much like Final Fantay and Wild Arms but Gamespot makes that sound like a bad thing. 
 Trust me it is not as a matter of fact it is what I want in a turn-based RPG and so much more. 
 The people who enjoy turn-based RPG's and are determined to get every achivement, will get the 
 most out of this game. There are about fifty achivements to unlock and unlocking them will also 
 unlock hours upon hours of gameplay. Blue Dragon does take alittle bit of stragey to play but it 
 is not overwhelming stratgey either. One thing that does not quite fit in the game is the Job classes, 
 it just seems alittle out of place with the rest of the game. At first the three characters you 
 start out with seem alittle dull but quickly show their personalities and fit right in. I personally 
 think that the story is rather unique while it has some common storyline elements it has a unique 
 story all on its own. The music to the game is not a letdown either, created by Nobou Umatesu, 
 the only thing I don't like is the boss battle music (what an annoying singing voice) . Like I said 
 this is a great game and will most-likely appeal to the RPG fans and people who want to take alot 
 of time to beat. great cast of characters, great gameplay, and a game that will hopefully be able 
 to be remembered as a memorable RPG. add it to your collection a great game 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B0bb1ns
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so this is the first time I went against a gamespot review, they said it was mediocre but I 
 thought I'd give it a whirl as another website which will remain nameless ( you can have one of 
 the three letters :- "i??") rated it higher. More fool me.
  
  Got it the day after I completed Eternal sonata which, to be fair to Blue dragon may have been 
 a little unfair as Eternal sonata is just such a beatifully crafted game the game which followed 
 was always going to have a tough time. My "review" is more of a comparison between the two games 
 seeing as I love Eternal sonata it, already, doesnt look good for Blue dragon. 
  
  OK so the Blue Dragon characters look - in a word, crap. Since the very beginning I had absolutely 
 no affinity with them and their silly painted on eyes. Unlike the main character in ES who was 
 most definintely a fox, knee length white socks and clogs have never looked so good before or since. 
 Infact, thinking about it, all the girl characters in that game could give me a semi even the priate 
 bird with only one good hand ( barring the two young ones of course - I dont want the FBI knocking 
 on my door ) Compared with the Blue dragon girl who in all honesty, if I am taking my comparison 
 down the pervy route, would be like shagging a badly constructed lego statue.
  
  Answer me this - what is the point of the characters at all? All they do is stand there while these 
 dragons come out of their arses and do all the fighting for them. Why not just get rid of the block 
 little unlikeable characters and just have the big dragon tings?
  
  No, I'm not going to spend any more time reviewing it, BD has had enough of my life as its going 
 to get.
  
  All I'd say is that I got to the first boss and decided that I just wasn't enjoying it so back 
 in the box it went and there it'll stay, I paid 6 for it 2nd hand and still feel like I was robbed.
 
  
  Compared to ES's beautiful graphics sound track, characters, story etc this game is as good as 
 a bad case of the clap.
  
  I know there are other reviews on here which rave about this game but I have never felt badly enough 
 about any game to write a bad review... until now. I also have played all the Final Fantasy games 
 since 7 own a stupidly large nerdy collection of anime which I feel gives me the right to comment 
 on JRPGS and my comment to BD is suck my salty balls.
  
  I?? kiss my behind, Gamespot - I'm sorry I ever doubted you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Okay. Ive held off reviewing the game until I truly got my thoughts together. 
  
  The game Blue Dragon is an Japanese Turn based rpg by Mistwalker. You play as Shu Jiro and Kluke 
 3 friends that live in a village that is being terrorized by an evil guy called Nene and they have 
 to stop him (they meet up with 2 other characters by the way that join there party) They get these 
 sepcial magical powers from these creatures that come out of their shadows to fight.
  
  I don't really feel like talking about the story ill get to the point. Why is the game 3 Discs? 
 All of the cut scenes there are a lot anyway the game has normal Turn based gameplay with attacks 
 spells and items. What makes this game so different and great though is the class system. There 
 are multiple classes that you unlock for each character all 5 characters there starting class is 
 probably the best bet to keep them at but you can customize the classes so much that you can have 
 all 5 characters to have healing spells. The problem with the class system that it makes the game 
 extremely easy actually without using all of the classes if you equip all of the best equipment 
 you get throughout the game and train correctly the game is easy. The characters are loveable the 
 graphics are pretty good but by other games standards there not. Another problem with the game 
 is framerate issues. Its almost everywhere each fight, on the world map, and later in the game 
 when you get these special attacks it bogs down to almost a halt, I personally thought my Xbox 
 froze or was about to freeze a few times. Then again the only time the framerate is major is during 
 specials the world map is very little but its there. Oh and if you played other J-RPG's you will 
 get some enjoyment out of it. I had fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  OK, This game looked so good from a cinematic point that I picked it up and then found out it's 
 Turn Based combat which is my Favorite, anyone can do hack and slash. Not everyone can think or 
 plot the next move and have to keep doing it for over 40-60 hours of game play and NOT get bored. I 
 love this type of game because you have to consider the WHOLE of it, The story matters, quests matter, 
 character development matters. If you are an "Old School" gamer like myself then you can appreciate 
 this game. It's so worth the $50 start price, but pick it up used or rent if you have to. I got 
 sooo stuck that I bought the Walkthrough (So sue me) Some of the maps are really hard to remember, 
 I kept going in circles . My youngest is hooked on it and the show they made, so replay value in 
 my house is high. I am working on the add on you can get, the changeable dungeon. Man is that HARD!
 
  So, I highly recommend you at least TRY it. Not harm in that, and hey who knows you just might 
 like it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Blue Dragon
  
  Review 160
  
  Released: August 28, 2007
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  Developer: Mistwalker
  Game Genre: Role-Playing
  ESRB 
 Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Descriptors: Alcohol Reference, Crude Humor, Fantasy Violence, 
  Mild Language, Mild Suggestive Themes
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 
 10%
  
  Story (9/10)
  Wellwhere to start
  
  The story begins in Talta Village with three young people; Shu, Jiro and Kluke. Their village is 
 attacked annually by a 'land shark', and this year, the three kids have devised a plan to destroy 
 it once and for all. 
  
  The only problem I have with the storyline is its implementation. There are a lot of aspects that 
 simply have to be taken for granted because they are not explained well. The ending movie is very 
 good, and well worth 70+ hours spent on this game.
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  There is certainly enough to make this game good, but not nearly enough to make it exceptional. 
 The pace of the battle system is a little slow and awkward, especially when you have to make your 
 way through a large dungeon.
  
  There is a class system involved as well. I hate class systems with a passion. I can never tell 
 whether to make each character a single class throughout the game or if I should mix and mingle, 
 and usually there are way too many classes involved. Blue Dragon's class system works out very 
 well, however. There are only 8 or 9 classes available, and each are balanced very well so that 
 you can mix classes or stick one character with one class throughout the game. 
  
  Boss battles in Blue Dragon are also created very well. Until you have the chance to really train 
 your characters, bosses are difficult but not impossible. Another flaw I find in many RPGs is that 
 the difficulty of bosses forces the gamer to train their characters for an hour or two to get them 
 up to a good level. I have more to do than waste my time battling monster after monster.
  
  Dungeons aren't too tedious, although there is a bit of puzzle work involved. The game provides 
 you with a map in the lower left corner that helps you from getting helplessly lost.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  I played the game on a standard-definition television (because I am a poor college 
 student and can only afford a 13" Tevion that has no remote control and does not work with any 
 universal remote controls) . The graphics impressed me, but there is lag in the battle system, usually 
 when 2 or 3 characters are charging up attacks or spells.
  
  Durability (10/10)
  Those looking for a trip back to the good ole days of RPGs will find happiness in Blue Dragon. 
 I put almost 74 hours into the storyline to beat the game. On top of that, there is a mod available 
 via Xbox Live Marketplace that allows you to replay the game with previous data on a much harder 
 difficulty.
  
  Overall Score (8.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  A great RPG to play if you have the time for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMR1904
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon has been slated in some quarters for various issues, sparse and repetitive settings, 
 childish heroes, an iffy scrip, overly easy game play and some painful voice acting. All these 
 things are true. Blue Dragon could have been a much much better game. 
  However, it is still a fun one to play: it has not a bad story; some nice animations; particularly 
 in the major set pieces of the plot; an entertaining set of skills which are interesting to learn 
 and with which to experiment and a decent return in game length for the money. If you want to look 
 into all the side quests it could easily take you over 50 hours to complete. 
  I guess some of the vitriol which has been poured on this game is not wholly unfair, but I feel 
 a lot of people are coming at it with wrong expectations. This is a story driven jrpg, not Oblivion. 
 It does offers a lot more freedom of movement than say it's sister game Lost Odyssey, but fall 
 well short of that game's depth and emotional impact, but then it is meant as a much more light 
 hearted piece. Over all I found it fun and worth the money and time spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxieWaxie
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. It has alot of monster to find, and items to customize the characters. But i 
 think they should have let us exceed the limit of 999 HP, so that kind of a let down.... Unless 
 I was wrong about that, then this game it quite good.
  
  Of coarse they should have add add least a few more class and tell us where the actual SHUFFLE 
 DUNGEON is on the map, which i later found out that it in the Cube place...
  
  So ya, the game it great and i hope they make a second version of it, like Blue Dragon II or something. 
 And if they do make the next version, they should definitely make the game in ONE disc, cuz it 
 really annoying having 3 disc. And they should also add some better class like a Dark Knight or 
 something that would make the game fun. And they should definitely give us a lot more characters 
 to control.
  
  But this is all some suggestion... so i guess it will never happen. -_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nate401
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Because of the Demo,. I waited so long to get into the game. The new character customization system 
 is the only new one I have fully liked. It was very nice waking up in the morning, grabbing a cup 
 of coffee and playing this game. All the innovation in this game is to be loved. I gave it .5 of 
 a demerit on my score because of the laggy dragon moments and I wasn't too crazy about the stores. 
 The economy needed a tweeking. The other .5 demerit Blue Dragon gets from me, is that when I beat 
 the game, I got no Gamer points. I guess I'll have to buy the book at Blockbusters so I can look 
 awesome at the game. I don't care I beat it already. Who I do give a low score to for the flawed 
 game play, is Microsoft. They get a big 1.5 demerit. Overall I am very happy I played it. That 
 doesn't happen alot for me. If you are indifferent after you play the demo, then rent it and give 
 it some time. I had to level up to level 65 before I could beat it on my 3rd try. My secret was 
 to be a snoop the whole game and then level everyone's Generalist class up to level 21. I made 
 special savepoints for the Mechat and wagon missions, so when I do it perfect I get some big GP.
 
  
  Nate401 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirlman555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is long and for the first few hours is rather boring but then you start unlocking all 
 these new skills and your party starts getting really strong. the reason it doesn't get to easy 
 is because the monsters not only get stronger but more and more start appearing and it stays difficult 
 and fun. A little while through the game it begins to get boring AGAIN but you then make all your 
 shadows generalists and let the customization continues! This game is underrated and, even though 
 the plot is cliche, the overall experience is great. The art and graphics are amazing, some of 
 the best I've ever seen, and this game is one of the best Japanese RPGs I've ever played and it 
 truly is worth the cost. BLUE DRAGON! 
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: buft
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I need to make a confession, i only bought this game because my girlfriend recommended it , probably 
 thanks to the fancy box art.
  
  but its become a guilty pleasure, i find my self going back to it time and time again .................... 
just to the next save point maybe the next one , maybe the next one"
  
  graphics are ok , character design is a bit childish , areas are sometimes quite bland. there is 
 a massive range of enemies and bosses are all quite diverse.
  
  overall the gameplay is ok ,nothing every other RPG hasn't already done , same old tried and tested 
 formula , its not broken so it doesn't need fixed.
  
  sound is good , but repetative , "I WONT GIVE UP" and the awesome but sickening boss battle synth 
 rock
  
  and finally the story is actually good , seeing the next cut scene is what keeps me playing .
 
  
  i would recommend this for fans of JRPG's , maybe rent first if your not sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Its a clichd, typical JRPG. But that doesnt stop it from being great.
  
  First of all we have the graphics & game world. Beautiful. In a gen full of grey shooting games 
 its so refreshing to have a colourful world to explore. The graphics are big & bold with a nice 
 cartoony look to them. & the environments are huge & incredibly varied. One minute your in a huge 
 lush, green field. Then fighting through caves or navigating a stoney valley opening out into a 
 snow covered area. The only disappointment comes from the mecha bases. These are quiet reptative 
 & dull areas. Luckily they are few & far between. The game also suffers from minor slowdown when 
 a lots going on. But it being a JRPG, this is far from game breaking.
  
  The battles are your typical turn-based affair. But you'll be glad to know there is no random encounters. 
 You can see the enemy on the field & its basicaly up to you if you engage them. The battles do 
 however have a unique feature that comes from the Blue Shadow creatures you control. Each can unlock 
 classes as you level up your character. These classes can then be switched around, leveled up & 
 mixed to create a bewildering array of battle options. But this could be quite daunting for some 
 so luckily the game never requires you actualy do this. Its there for the people who like extra 
 depth & options to their combat style.
  
  Its an easy game & the saves are well placed for a change. I died once thoughout the whole game 
 & even then it was at a boss. But this is where the genius of the checkpoint system comes into 
 play. Before each boss you have a checkpoint. This saved me a tonne of frustration. The last thing 
 you want after exploring for the last hour is to lose all that progress. I got sent back to the 
 checkpoint, changed my tactics for the battle & came away the victor. Sure these make the game 
 even easier but it removes (IMO) one of JRPG's biggest flaws. The one where its possible to lose 
 hours of play time from one silly mistake in a battle. The game also seemed to require no level 
 grinding, as long as your smart in battle & use some tactics you will be able to beat it without 
 the need for endless leveling up.
  
  At first the story is decent enough to keep you playing & wanting to find out what happens. But 
 it really does have some really soppy moments that are embarassing to watch & I didnt give a rhubarb 
 about the main characters, apart from one called Zola - bunch of annoying little brats that they 
 are. Which brings me onto another little point - be sure to change the language to Japanese. The 
 English voices are some of the worst in the history of videogames & it has one of the hammiest 
 scripts thats ever been produced. The soundtrack isnt that brilliant either but its ok. However 
 the numerous NPC's you meet are mostly interesting & a lot moe likeable. 
  
  From the 3rd disc though the story really does pick up. Some genuinely surprising moments & one 
 of the best videogame finales ive experienced make it worth sticking with the low points you may 
 experience earlier in the game. Its also huge. I clocked in at 39 hours. I didnt level grind & 
 after a quick look at some guides ive not even explored or collected half of what the game has 
 to offer. For a completest this game could take over your life for a very long time.
  
  All in all I loved it. Decent & at times excellent story. Great combat system with added depth 
 for those who wanted it one of the best game worlds ive had the pleasure of exploring. Highly recomended 
 to all JRPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon reminds me of a mix of Final Fantasy X-2, Dragon Quest 8 and Evolution, maybe with 
 dash of Okage: Shadow King for good measure. There was a few things that really peeved me about 
 Blue Dragon, sure the game was extremely easy, sure the blur effects annoyed the crap out of me, 
 sure the story was perfectly average at best, and sure the graphics weren't exactly blowing my 
 mind. Outside of that, I really loved building up my job classes, I loved exploring the world around 
 me, I loved the music, I loved the art style.
  
  Blue Dragon was far from the most original game ever, but I atleast enjoyed most of the game. What 
 can I say, I like JRPGs. 
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Blue Dragon is a turn-based RPG. The turns are placed out by the character or enemy with the best 
 agility. Characters and enemies are lined up from each other (like say, Evolution for the Dreamcast) 
 and can be placed in a front or back row. Depending on which row the character/enemy is standing 
 on, they can get a defense or offensive bonus. This is typical among early Final Fantasy games, 
 and even the Evolution games. Another Evolution similarity is the bar that tracks the order of 
 up-coming attacks by enemies and characters. 
  
  You gain experience like any normal rpg after you defeat enemies in a battle. You also gain SP 
 points, these are skill points. The SP goes towards your Shadows. Each character has one shadow, 
 but you can change your job class. You can be a Sword, Guardian, Monk, Black Mage, White Mage, 
 Assassian, Generalist, Barrier Mage or a Support Mage. This system kinda reminds me of Final Fantasy 
 X-2 mixed with Dragon Warrior 7. After so many skill points, your Shadow's job class can level 
 up, after a pre-determined amount of levels your shadow can gain new abilities. Your Shadows power 
 adds to your power as well, so say Shu is at level 10 and he has 100 HP, add the Shadow at level 
 10 and he has 100 HP, so Shu will have about 200 HP (this is just an example) . So you're basically 
 playing as two characters, so when you switch to a lower level shadow, Shu will probably be a weaker 
 character until he levels up his shadow. 
  
  When you have a shadow equipped, you'll have one Skill unlocked, for example if you're a Monk, 
 you can Guard, or if you're a White Mage you'll be able to use White Magic. Over time, you can 
 eventually equip 8 other skills from ANY job class that you've already learned. You can basically 
 make a lean mean killing machine if you unlock all the good skills. This actually breaks the game 
 and makes it WAY to easy. You can learn a skill that will attack two times, learn a skill that 
 will automatically counter, you can learn a skill that will cast two magic attacks at once. 
  
  You can't equip weapons, but you can equip 4 accessories (and 3 bonus accessories later in 
 the game) . These accessories are basically a standard substitute for Weapons, Armor, Helmet and 
 whatever. The Bracelet boosts your strength, the Ring boosts your defense, etc.. 
  
  Boss fights require no thought or strategy at all. You can pretty much beat this game without using 
 magic at all if you wanted to. You'll punch yourself to victory with every boss fight. Dungeons 
 and overall exploring in the game will make up for the mundane boss fights. I had the most fun 
 in this game just running around dungeons and fields, looking for stuff, figuring out the (simplistic) 
 puzzles. 
  
  One good feature is the lack of random encounters. All enemies are visiable on screen before a 
 battle, you can run away from them at anytime. There are only a few enemies that might block your 
 path or will guard a treasure though. It's similar to Chrono Trigger, but in Chrono Trigger it's 
 more of a puzzle to avoid a battle. Blue Dragon's system is closer to Grandia games where you can 
 just avoid a battle all together. One cool feature, and maybe the only original thought in the 
 game is the ability to gather all surrounding enemies into a collection of fights. Say your are 
 surrounded by 4 enemies, all you have to do is hit one of the triggers and then you can battle 
 all 4 in a row without having to waste time exiting and enter battle. You also get battle bonus' 
 between fights. Sometimes if you group up enemies that hate each other, like for example an Insect 
 creature and a Plant creature, they will fight each other rather than your characters.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Shu, Jiro and Kluke. You're all in your 
 late teens (although they look more like 13 year olds) and live in a small secluded village that 
 gets attacked by a Land Shark every year. Shu, Jiro and Kluke are tired of being tormented and 
 having their village destroyed every year, so they attempted to attack the Land Shark. During the 
 battle, they find out that the land shark is really a robot, sent by an evil magician called Nene. 
 Nene has been tormenting every town with some weird idea for the past 10 years. As Shu, Jiro and 
 Kluke board Nene's lair, they find magical orbs that give me magical powers to control their shadows 
 as weapons. Shu, Jiro and Kluke later hook up with Marumaro and Lady Zora, and go on a quest to 
 stop Nene from destroying the world.
  
  The story was typical, but it gave you enough reason to play the game. It's really no better or 
 worse than Skies of Arcadia, but Shu, Jiro and Kluke were kinda forgettable main characters. Other 
 than that, the story was good enough.
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  I loved the style of the graphics, but at the same time hated a few aspects of them too. I loved 
 the character models. They're animated nicely, and looked great. Some characters looked straight 
 out of Dragon Quest 8 and others looked straight out of Chrono Trigger. On the other hand, the 
 monsters were kinda generic looking and totally forgettable. I really really hated the blur effects. 
 Blue Dragon has this stupid feature where they blur out the backgrounds to make draw-distance look 
 further than it really is. While it's nice in theory, it gets annoying when you run faster than 
 the blur effects disappear, so you can actually run into the blur and the whole screen gets messed 
 up. It makes me think my eyes are getting worse than they actually are. I hate it. 
  
  I don't like the battle system animations though. The shadows look really choppy, I hate how the 
 camera flashes around all the time (this annoyed me about Wild Arms 3 and most Dragonball games) . 
 I like how fast the loading is, and how big the areas are. Besides that, any of the areas within 
 this game could of been in a PS2 game without a problem. Besides the character models and maybe 
 some of the cleaned up cutscenes, there really isn't much in this game that wowed my visually. 
 
  
  The scope of the game is huge though, there's alot of enemies to fight, nearly 300 or so. Although 
 most of them are repeats with different color or higher level. There are ton of sidequests, a ton 
 of characters, alot of cutscenes and overall a ton of stuff do to and see. 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  All the main characters and any character that is involved in the 
 storyline have voice overs. Not all dialog is voiced out though. The main character Shu has a very 
 high energy voice and can be a little annoying, I'm pretty sure he is voiced out by the same person 
 that did Musashi in Brave Fencer Musashi. Just like Brave Fencer, his voice is really annoying 
 at first, but you do eventually warm up to it. Another voice that can be a little annoying is Marumaro, 
 who is a little bat-humaniod character with a shrill over excited loud voice. The voice fits his 
 personality, but it is a bit over the top and loud. Other than that, I had no problems with the 
 voice cast with the other characters. Kluke and Jiro's voices were a little dull but it fit their 
 personalities.
  
  The music is freaking amazing. The battle music is rememerable, victory music is rememberable, 
 the town music is rememberable, the boss battle music is rememberable. I loved the music. This 
 is some of the best new music I've heard since Baten Kaitos, and like Baten Kaitos there are songs 
 with vocals. There's atleast 3 or 4 songs within the game with voices and I love it. The boss battle 
 music is even sung by Deep Purple / Black Sabbath alumni Ian Gillan. The boss music really threw 
 me off at first but after hearing it a bunch of times I couldn't get the song out of my head. I 
 love the huge variety of music too. There's weird techno songs, slow acoustic tracks, speed metal, 
 gothic drone, etc. 
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map is an overview of connecting fields, dungeons and towns. This is not much different 
 than Dragon Quest 8, actually it's almost exactly the same thing as Dragon Quest 8, not that this 
 is a bad thing. I loved Dragon Quest 8's world map design, while I think Blue Dragon's world is 
 a little less detailed and more forgettable in a sense compared to Dragon Quest 8 with less explorable 
 areas. Blue Dragon loads alot quicker between world map / town or world map / plane. 
  
  There's a warp function you get fairly early in the game (kinda like Dragon Quest 8, hey) . You 
 can't warp to any town or dungeon that includes a warp device, you have to first find this device 
 and when you unlock it, you can warp back and forth at anytime. I like that you can backtrack, 
 but there are a couple times in the game where you're trapped within a town. Even if you can backtrack 
 there isn't really any reason to until later in the game when you get more sidequest items. Near 
 the end of the game you'll get your flying plane (like Dragon Quest 7 and 8) . There's only one 
 more dungeon beyond this point in the game, but when you get your flying ship you do unlock a bunch 
 of sidequest dungeons and bonus bosses, so there's quite a bit to do if you don't want to rush 
 the end of the game.
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  53:35:53
  
  The final boss is quite possibly the easiest final boss I ever fought in my entire life. You can 
 save before the final form of the final boss, but this you can't backtrack from this point, so 
 if you missed anything, then save with a different file. After you beat the game, you get a pretty 
 lengethy ending, which was pretty sweet. No reward for beating the game, but you can download a 
 free patch that will unlock New Game+ and Insane mode if you want a higher difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranteal
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is, at best, a game to play when your bored, and want to increase your boredom. The 
 characters are bland, with no real reason to care what they do or why they do it, you will soon 
 find yourself asking "Why am I playing this?".
  The monsters are laughable (not in a good way) and look like they were made in a RPG Monsters 101 
 class. There is not reason, other than geitting the game points, to play this game. The levels 
 are bland and lifeless, and if you are the least bit tired, you might just find yourself falling 
 alseep. By my guess, at least an hour of my 15 hours on this game were spent sleeping if front 
 of my TV.
  If you are really looking for an RPG to play, Lost Odyssey is a decent game, Eternal Sonata couldnt 
 be any worse, and as far as Oblivion goes, its the best game on the 360, so you should have played 
 it by now. If Oblivion is a amusement park, than Blue Dragon is a job proof reading highschool textbooks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Blue dragon was suppose to be the answer for microsoft in the japan department. Its purpose was 
 to begin bringing rpg's for everyone. Well, if this is the best microsoft has to offer in the terms 
 of rpg's then im afraid we are missing out.
  
  Blue dragon places you in a village that is tormented by the land shark. Shu, Kluke, and Jiro decide 
 to fight instead of hide like the rest of the village does. This even will lead you to a long journey 
 to stop the evil nene and is sinister ways. The story sets you up with a potentially good story, 
 but the way this story presents itself is not something you would want to remember for any good 
 reason.
  
  Gameplay wise, it stays true to old-school turn base format. you will be able to charge attacks 
 with some characters and this will allow you to add some strategy to the turns. All characters 
 have the potential to have every class in the game so the characters lose a lot of their personality, 
 but i decided to keep them with their original ones for story sake. The classes are divided by 
 monk, sword master, white magic, black magic, defender, support magic, generalist, and barrier 
 magic. I feel the breaking down of these skills is dumb considering you only get 5 party members 
 and it takes from other skills to learn some that have actually been placed together in other rpg's
 
  
  The music in the game is good. If its the only thing you remember in this game i wouldnt blame 
 you. The world music gives that sense of adventure and you know when a boss battle happens and 
 dungeons have that level specific music as well. My only beef is that there wasn't more of it.
 
  
  Sounds of the game are somewhat generic, but they fit where they are suppose to.
  
  Visually the game is not that appealing as that generic feel continues. The spells and moves of 
 your shadows are really the most appealing and when you activate your corpreal attack the framerate 
 slows
  
  For hardcore rpg fans this game is worth the price. It clocks in a little over 30 hrs for the main 
 story and will help feed the appetite of those people without a good rpg for the 360, but for those 
 that are looking for something truly epic this is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  The ambition behind the combination of Mistwalker, Artoon and Microsoft Game Studios is to make 
 a big step forward in Japanese RPG (JRPG) market with a high quality game for XBox 360. Therefore, 
 their key product - Blue Dragon (BD) - is supposed to be the first gunshot for the conquest of this 
 console in Japan, a quest that its predecessor had failed before. Working under this project are 
 several famous developers that have a lot of experience with the genre: director Hironobu Sakaguchi, 
 painter Akira Toriyama and composer Nobuo Uematsu, who had already known for their success in the 
 classic RPG Chrono Trigger. No doubt, their hallmarks are strong in BD: Most characters look familiar 
 in the style of Akira Toriyama, author of the comics "Dragon Balls"; inspirational music by Akira 
 Toriyama (series Final Fantasy) ; dramatic story line and flexible combat system by Hironobu Sakaguchi. 
 Honestly BD is an enthralling world that will absorb you for a long time.
  
  Players are struck right in the first frame! The introductory film about the monster Land Shark 
 attacking the village Talta is very impressive with its graphics and sound quality. The scene of 
 panicked villagers running for their life in desperate scream is so lively. It is only one of a 
 huge number of impecceable cut scenes throughout this game. In that way, players are immersed in 
 the adventure of Shu (the leading role) and his two friends Jiro and Kluke - the ones who are by 
 chance endowed with the power to use their shade as some kind of guardian angles. When the story 
 line opens with knots, there will be 2 other characters: Marumaro and Zola. What's the mystery 
 behind strange magics and mechanisms? What's the purpose of the villain Nene? These are the question 
 following you through the story.
  
  Despite the apprearance of many modern RPG recently, BD return to classic form of the genre. By 
 re-applying the "job-skill" system, it brings players a familiar yet renewed feeling. Each character 
 can choose one out of 10 jobs with totally different skills for their shade. If he or she switch 
 to another class, the skills that have been chosen still can be improved, so your characters are 
 very versatile. The best scheme is to include both fighters and magic users in your group so that 
 they can support each other in battle. There are also two types of levels: the overall level for 
 one character and the rank for class. BD insists more on the second because this one actually decide 
 how powerful your character is. Therefore, "ploughing" the monsters is not necessary here. In fact, 
 game allows players to retreat if they feel not ready for a battle or dodge monsters on the mini 
 maps. This feature spare you the annoying contingent fights. To support you in battle, game also 
 provides a bar displaying the order of attacks made by each warrior, a familiar factor in turn-based 
 RPG. Trying to make more powerful attacks will certainly slow down your turn. Generally speaking, 
 combat in BD is easy to master, but not boring thanks to its clever design.
  
  In some episode, we have mini games to change the atmosphere: escort citizens to safe location; 
 inlay the ring in the competition with Jiro; some game using Quick Timer Event mechanism; fire 
 spacecraft or moons in the end of each chapter... However, after a while with the game, some can 
 feel disappointed because the difficulty level is not high. You can even finish BD without anytime 
 of "gameover". Even if you die, you can simply start from the last check point without any cost. 
 The number of quests is also small but it's acceptable thanks to interesting plot and game play. 
 Fortunately, there will be upgrade patch through XBOX Live in the time coming.
  
  BD set its criteria for graphics and sound very high, exploiting the power of X360 drastically. 
 The first impression is magnificent cut scenes in anime manner. Hironobu Sakaguchi has transfered 
 his passion for movies into many unforgettable moments of this game. For example, the episode in 
 which Jibral force attack the flying bastion of Nene is like in a Action movies; or the one when 
 thousands of Nene's robots surrounding Shu's group reminds us of the epic battle in Star wars or 
 The lord of the Ring... In game graphics is as beautiful with many natural scenery an distinctive 
 architectures. As for the sound, no one can skip the Eternity theme in boss fights through the 
 voice of Ian Gillan (heavy metal Deep Purple band) . Unfortunately original voice play is in Japanese 
 so we can't enjoy it in English version.
  
  Blue Dragon lives up to the highest expectation from fans of JRPG genre, especially in a period 
 lacking quality RPG games. Its success opens a new hope for the next version that will come in 
 2008, as promised by the developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is just flat out disappointing. I actually GAVE UP playing about 2 hours into the game. 
 Why? Well let's start off with the horrendous voice acting, followed by a terrible cast of characters 
 (they look like kids but they're supposed to be teenagers... right) . A goofy/cliche plot. This game 
 is fascinated with feces, you'll encounter a monster called "Poo Snake" which is just down right 
 STUPID. He's even shaped like a pile of poo. It's just immature. The graphics do look good, sort 
 of a cartoony style mixed in with some nice bloomy effects. The gameplay is the best part of the 
 game, you gain control of shadows that have a particular class (melee, black magic, healing magic 
 etc) and when they level up you learn new skills and you can unlock a new class which I found refreshing.
 
  
  Overall, I had high expectations before playing this game (after Lost Odyssey, who wouldn't) and 
 this game fell terribly short of those expectations.
  
  Verdict: Don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360chad360
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  On the first day it came out i knew blue dragon was going to be a awesome game. this game has great 
 graphics that would be ranked 9/10 and a game play system that has been used before but is now 
 spiced up and seems like new. 
  All though this is a long game... it comes on 3 discs which makes it a very long and enjoyable 
 experience. one thing about this game surprised me...... the charcters were kids!!, not teens KIDS.
 
  This made the game more interesting knowing that the heros in the game are only 8,9, or 10 years 
 old. 
  The story line of this game was one that made me go back to play the game over and over again. 
 it was one that made you stay up to endless hours of the night and say..... wow its 3:00am.
  Now on to the more hardcore part of the review.
  The game needed basic reading ability to fully 
 enjoy it so it was no prob for me. The cut-scenes had voice which is a big plus for anyone who 
 has trouble reading so the audio would get a 9/10 so not more was desired.
  As mentioned before the graphic were excellent but the 20% of the creatures looked like normal 
 animals. i mean come on there was creatures like 'lazy bear, hermit crab poo, and acient cricket' 
 what were they thinking. anyways graphics still seem like a 9/10 for me. Game play was a trill 
 for me, but the battle system seemed like its been done before, so they spiced it up with a few 
 little details and its just like new. There were a few things that micosoft could of worked on, 
 like for example I dislike the boss song and it never changed over the course of the whole game 
 i mean WTF.
  Another thing that didn't please me was there was only five playable chacters in the game. Shu, 
 jiro, kluke, marumaro, and Zola were all the chacters blue dragon had to offer over the course 
 of three discs. There were lots of NPC's (non-player-chacters) in the game to meet and interact 
 with and this i was pleased with. Anyways game play gets a 9/10 from me because it had more good 
 points then bad
  Now extra features were very awesome and they deserve a 10/10. some things like the wagon escort 
 mini game and mecca shooting were really addicting and highly entertaining.
  
  this isnt my best review but the game was the best 10/10 from me!!:)
  Ps. this game is awesome 
 and loved by millions but yet gets alot of hate from people who dont have it so just to let you 
 know...... play it before you diss it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  I can't complain. It was good Graphics (I thought) and the characters are fun . I enjoyed playing 
 it. You will not feel challenged by the bosses, or suprised by the conclution (I wasn't) , but not 
 all games need a shocking ending or frustrating bosses. I came along for the ride and was pleased.
 
  the music is repetative but I did not feel it was overbaering. Maru Maru's voice was alittle grading... 
 but then I saw the cartoon and realized that I like the game voice better. 
  Shu looks like a small Goku.... but his personality is different and that shows through. Kluke is 
 one of the most Non-characters that I have seen.... she is just there.
  THe cut seens were enjoyable... and I thought the length of the game made it worthy of the price.
 
  Gamespot giving it a 6 was a little low... I would give it an all around 7.5 or 8.0
  I am glad I played it to the end.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jub77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I dont even know where to begin with this very boring game. I didn't even spend a hour playing 
 it. I usually like RPG games but this game was a total disaster. The graphics were probably the 
 best part of what I played, everything else was horrible. The story doesnt even make alot of sense. 
 A little boy in a village named Shu has his village attacked by a land shark and he gets a little 
 help from the neighbors (also kids) . This game really felt like it was meant to be played by kids 
 honestly. The characters dont even have personality something I look foward to in a RPG. I really 
 wanted to like Blue Dragon but it felt like they needed to innovate in some way. I wish this game 
 was a little bit more fun because I like RPGs just not this one.
  
  If you really want to play this game, please rent it first don't make the same mistake I did by 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw2093
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  In the game you follow the story of five young heroes called Shu, Kluke, Jiro, Marumaro, and Zola 
 in their quest to stop an evil ancient known as Nene and his robot Commander Szabo. However our 
 heroes have one thing in common: they all have the power of shadows which are in five different 
 forms: Dragon for Shu, Minatour for Jiro, Phoenix for Kluke, Beast for Marumaro, and Bat for Zola. 
 And they all share the same classes such as Sword Master, Black White and Barrier Magic, Monk and 
 other classes to unlock. But the only thing which might put people off from buying this game is 
 the fact that it lasts over 3 Discs so if you are really into your RPGs and are a fan of the Final 
 Fantasy games then this game is one for you. So for me personally this is a game worth playing 
 for the adventure and storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  The best compliment I can give BD (Blue Dragon) is just how simple and classic it is. If you've 
 ever played an older Final Fantasy, you know the formula. I have logged 50 hours approximately 
 on this game and feel I am ready to review it. This review will be categorized as followed: Pros/Cons, 
 Gameplay, Graphics/Sound, Value, and Achievement Junkies.
  
  [If you like this review, and find it helpful, you might want to check out my other ones. With 
 75+ written reviews and a "Top 500 Community Reviewer" emblem, I am dedicated to providing facts, 
 opinions, and good judgement on your next buy.]
  
  Pros
  -Simple, classic RPG mechanics.
  -Monsters are on-screen, not random encounters.
  -Field Barrier 
 allows you to avoid fights, which is nice once in a while.
  
  Cons
  -The Dragonball look just isn't cutting it.
  -Framerate drops for no reason.
  -Terrible story 
 with ill-placed cutscenes.
  
  ----------------
  [Gameplay]
  ----------------
  As par the usual RPG, you'll have dungeons, towns, and an overworld map. The controls are simple, 
 you run around and can inspect things, talk to people, and so on. Towns allow you to buy items, 
 rest up and save. Dungeons host a variety of enemies, usually with a boss at the end and, in this 
 game, doesn't always provide a challenge. The overworld map is where you travel locations one to 
 another, and fight enemies as you might in dungeons. Combat itself is very simple. Your characters 
 aren't restricted to a specific class, they can each follow your choice of options and eventually 
 combine all those skills to make the ultimate fighter (of course this combining will happen later 
 rather than sooner) . Every battle your allies and enemies take turns, with abilities to Attack, 
 Defend, Flee, use Items, use Magics, and a variety of other attacks. The shadows I spoke of are 
 basically your class depictions, you can change them from say a Black Magic user, to a White Magic 
 User, a Fighter, an Assassin, and everything in between and around. As you travel through the aforementioned 
 dungeons and towns, you'll progress the dissapointing story.
  
  ------------------------
  [Graphics/Sound]
  ------------------------
  The artist from DBZ took part in BD, as you can 
 see most obvious by the distinctive look. This is great and all, but he never strays far from his 
 roots and it feels way too comparable. Some characters, like the Gorgon Giants might look stripped 
 from the Dragonball series, but are still unique. Besides the art style, the graphics are crisp, 
 clean, and colorful with questionable framerate drops. The sounds are basic, but the soundtrack 
 reminds you very much of Final Fantasy VII (for good reason, it's the same guy who did that) . My 
 personal favorite is the boss music, which you should get a kick out of.
  
  ---------
  [Value]
  ---------
  For an everdropping price at $30 and lower, BD isn't the worst game you 
 can buy. If you're strapped for cash, this clasic RPG will last your 50+ hours if you want to do 
 everything, and it spans 3 discs. There are 3 or 4 downloadable content choices ranging from new 
 items, to a new dungeon, to a new difficulty. Yet, with the slim choices of RPGs on 360, this is 
 probably also one of the better options. Another recommendation would be Lost Odyssey and Eternal 
 Sonata.
  
  -------------------------------
  [Achievement Junkies]
  -------------------------------
  Most of the achievements take time and dedication. I would suggest 
 buying a strategy guide and the game, as you will definitely not get everything, or even beat the 
 game, in a rental. Also, some achievements are tricky (like getting all the monsters and items) 
 and the strategy guide definitely helps with this one. Alas, getting 1,000 on this game will be 
 greatly rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is one of the first RPG's created for the Xbox 360 by the new Mistwalker studio who 
 appears to have some sorta relation to the creation of Final Fantasy I don't know how exactly but 
 that's a good sign right?
  
  Blue Dragon's story consists mostly of just chasing a madman named Nene around fantasy world's 
 fighting off the wall characters as you go (what the heck is a poo snake?) Now I haven't beaten 
 this game so I don't know what other plot twists this game has to throw in my face and given that 
 it's a JRPG I'm sure it will. As far as stories go in JRPGS go this is a bit bland sorta like a 
 game of tag with a crazy old man with the occasional side quest thrown in to mix things up.
  
  As for the combat is a very standard affair, you would have thought consoles today would have 
 outgrown this sort of lazy way of battling. I still don't understand why on earth you have to wait 
 your turn to attack. Let's be realistic here OK? If a huge robot was coming charging at you would 
 sit and hope you don't die or fight back? Uh huh thought so. It's this turn based reason why I 
 can't play the game for more than a few hours at a time anymore and my mind starts to wander from 
 lack of variety in the combat.
  
  Blue Dragon has a huge epic world as can be expected from a game that lives on 3 discs. Enemy's 
 have a wonderfully stylish and brim with personality. The main characters on the other hand are 
 just a snooze. Shu mainly just whines, Jiro is the silent type who only speaks when it's important, 
 Kluke switches from being a nag to just being awkwardly silent. The other characters add abit more 
 flavour well Zola tries but ends up looking like she's bored for most of the game. Small impish 
 thingy MaruMaro (try saying that three times fast) is the only one with character and tends to 
 make me laugh with his childish antics and weird passion for Zola.
  
  Blue Dragon is a solid RPG if you're prepared to overlook it's old fashioned battles and relatively 
 bland character design (save for MaruMaro) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznmoggle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Role-playing Games Genres:
  If you enjoy playing J. role-playing games like Final Fantasy 3, 7 and 9 then you are in for a 
 treat. However, if you are into more the multimedia style of role-playing games, action/adventure 
 RPG, shooting RPG (i. e.: Final Fantasy 10, Mass Effect, Bioshock) then it may not be as fun for 
 you.
  
  Cost & Value
  Overall, having the experience of playing all those games, it is an awesome well-made 3 disc. game. 
 It's going for $20 bucks now on Amazon since Xbox360 RPG games in the US aren't in great demand.
 
  
  Market Difference:
  IMO the Japan Gaming market is more into role-playing games, and this game is what made Xbox360 
 sell over there. For the US, it would be titles like Halo series (first person shooter genres) 
 that made Xbox360 sell here.
  
  Role-playing Games & Xbox360:
  There isn't a whole lot of role-playing out for the Xbox360, this is one of them, and worth picking 
 up, next to Lost Odyssey and Eternal Sonata, that fits in the classic role-playing genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry but im going to rip into this game... I've been playing Japanese RPG's for years and this 
 is probably the poorest attempt i've seen so far.
  
  Everything about it annoys me, from the annoying little characters that you cant feel any sympathy 
 for, to the 'cant be arsed' graphics to the outdated fight system. This might have been acceptable 
 5 years ago, but now, on the XBOX360? No. Not even kids will find the graphics good, they're just 
 an excuse to get the graphics done easily, its that simple.
  
  The story has been seen in about 100,000,000 RPG's before, and it doesn't do it as well as many 
 other games i can mention.
  Can we please have some RPG's on XBXO360 worthy of Final Fantasy, because the lack of quality RPG's 
 on the console is embaressing, and this kiddy piece of manure really isn't helping things.
  
  Sorry Mistwalker, but this really is a half arsed attempt at an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterSinister6
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The only pet peeve i had with this game is how the combat system so closely resembles the Final 
 Fantasy type of fighting style. Besides the the game is perfect. And by the I thought the story 
 was actually pretty solid. Isn't that basically what you need to create a great video game, good 
 graphics and solid story line? The boss battles are all sooo amazing as well, you cannot disagree 
 with me on that !! If I'm missing something in this review please tell me because the one thing 
 I hate worst than an overrated game is an underrated game, wouldn't you agree? The levels are not 
 repetitive, the game obviously wasn't rushed, the character models are great, and the controls 
 are fairly simple. This happens all the time, you know people disagreeing with the scores but seriously 
 WHO would gave this game a 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 11, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Blue dragon was the first decent RPG to hit the Xbox 3560 in a while. unfortunately, it failed 
 to reach it's potential.
  
  The graphics are actually pretty decent, done in an anime style. The music score, mostly the same 
 repetitive J-rock tracks, would have been more effective without the lyrics. The magic/skill system 
 could have been received a lot better if each of your characters couldn't gain every single skill 
 class. It hurts the customization of your characters by leaving them too generic.
  
  Aesthetics aside, the story was interesting and immersing, as any good RPG should be. Sadly, it 
 utterly lacked any real side-quests and the dialogue was clearly aimed at younger gamers.
  
  The anime-style graphics and the cool shadow characters will draw you into this game, but don't 
 waste your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHuN_G0Ku
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  For Dragon Ball Z fans out there, this is definitely a must-own since it would probably be Akira 
 Toriyama's last work.
  This game is marvelous in every aspect.
  Level design, interactions, battle system, and especially character designs are put the limit bringing 
 you a memorable role playing game..
  This actually my first role playing game for the 360 and i've enjoyed every bit of it from start 
 to finish.
  I just hope that this game will not be Akira Toriyama's last work and from the fans that will play 
 this game, there should be enough reason on why he should keep on doing on what he does best.
 
  If you love Dragon Ball Z games then you'll definitely love this one.
  Do not even bother with other people's negative review about this game.
  If you are not sure 
 about it, just rent the game first.
  I bought this game especially because it might be Akira Toriyama's last work.
  
  My pros for 
 this game:
  -character design by Akira Toriyama
  -level design
  -story
  
  cons:
  -none 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Having bought this on the back of Lost Odyssey (at least after a few hours of Lost Odyssey) I almost 
 instantly regretted it when I discovered how unforgiving Lost Odyssey is.
  
  As such it sat on the shelf unplayed for a few weeks as I tried to wash the taste of Lost Odyssey 
 out of my mouth... those weeks were wasted.
  
  If you can get past the child like graphics, and don't care that you never find out just why Shu 
 "Won't Give Up" you'll find a decent game, a game obsessed with Poo (whether it be fighting it 
 or searching through it) , but a decent game.
  
  There's plenty of variety in what you fight, and they've tried to do away with the horrible tendancy 
 of RPG's where every side mission is a "fetch me this" job that soon becomes repetitive.
  
  The shadows you and your team are gifted can get a little samey after a few hundred fights, and 
 the game covers almost every JRPG cliche there is (annoying characters, love story, battle poses, 
 vicotru pose, fight a team member, impossible battles) but its those same annoying little gameplay 
 elements that make the genre so sucessful... you know what you're going to get when you buy an 
 RPG... and this doesn't disappoint.
  
  The score would have been lower had it not been for the music which plays during major battles, 
 as a fan of 70's and 80's Rock I thought it sounded very reminiscent of Deep Purple (one of my 
 favourite bands) ... and there, in the closing credits was the reason... "Vocals... Ian Gillen" 
 lead singer of said band for the best part of 20 years, if not longer... worth an extra .5 in my 
 book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  From the demo on Xbox Live, Blue Dragon played and felt like a pretty bad game. If you've played 
 the demo thought it was bad.... just know that it does not give you a taste of what this game really 
 is.
  
  First off, the story of the game is decent. It's your classic kids taking on the villain who is 
 trying to take over the world. Most if not all RPG's follow this straight forward storyline and 
 Blue Dragon is no different. The story is a bit slow and some storylines just feel unnecessary 
 and out of place. Fortunately, each Disk ends with some great cutscenes that keeps the story going. 
 One thing that really took me by surprise were the cutscenes. At the end of the first disk there 
 are just some great scenes that just made me like the game even more. The story takes awhile to 
 build to its conclusion but it ends with some nice twists and turns that'll keep you satisfied 
 until the endless credits.
  
  The sound in the game was just what you would expect from a Japanese RPG. The voice acting were 
 annoying but not bad enough that it took away from the game. The developers could have improved 
 in the aspect but they were far better than the voice acting in Enchanted Arms. The orchestrated 
 music, one of my favourite things in games, felt very familiar. The main theme in the startup menu 
 felt like it was from some Final Fantasy game (and yes I know the composer is the same) and some 
 of the areas in the game have some great music. The boss battle music grows on you - heavy metal 
 for the win.
  
  The graphics in the game were solid. The cutscenes looked great but obviously they were not done 
 with in game graphics. The characters looked and sounded like they were from a Japanese anime cartoon 
 and that's exactly the point the developers were trying to show.
  
  Now again I'll bring up the demo. The demo made the gameplay feel awful and unnatural but its not 
 the case. Thankfully, there are no random encounters. Random encounters are horrible and Blue Dragon 
 would not have been the game it was if it had random encounters. Basically, you walk around and 
 attack monsters in sight. Press X to jump at them and hit first or creep around and attack from 
 the back. Pretty simple stuff. My only problem is when your walking around the camera won't let 
 you see where your going and this was one of those nitpicking things I had with the game. You have 
 shadow classes that'll enhance your character. Black Magic obviously lets you use abilitys like 
 Winda, Grounda, etc. White Magic gives you all the healing abilities. The Thief class lets you 
 negotiate and steal. All these classes all contribute to these characters and all are necessary. 
 To beat the two hardest enemies in the game - Gold Mecha Robot and King Poo - you are going to 
 need to level up your characters in all of these classes.
  
  Overall, Blue Dragon is a solid RPG for a company that basically ignored the JPRG genre last generation. 
 Blue Dragon may not be perfect but it lasts a solid 40 hours and the game will take you 90 hours 
 if you want to get the annoying and reptitive achievements of leveling up everyone and all their 
 shadow classes to lvl 99. The game is a solid buy for JRPG fans and a great one for those who may 
 be new to the RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Hironobu Sakaguchi's first RPG with his new found company Mistwalker is here. I have always loved 
 JRPGs and to see them evolve over time is a beautiful thing. Looking back to FFVII then looking 
 at FFXII, you can see how much has changed. They have went from turn based battles to action battles. 
 I prefer the new take on RPGs nowadays, but its relieving to see these type of games are still 
 being made.
  
  THE STORY in Blue Dragon is interesting. In part, its interesting because you got some cool ideas 
 that keep the story fresh and actually fun. The characters also add on to that alternate reality 
 by producing some personality, and fitting in perfectly with the setting. Add in the fact that 
 all the characters have an alternate personality which is of course their shadows. Their shadows 
 play a huge part in the story and are one of the main driving points of the story. But then you 
 also got some wierd moments such as the loud mouthed Marumaru who will simply make you want to 
 choke a child. But basically, you got some creepy purple old pedophile looking man who simply likes 
 to hear people scream and these kids wind up in the middle of a bad situation which of course leads 
 them on a mission to save the world.
  
  THE GRAPHICS are very nice. They look along the lines of an Anime Pixar movie. The characters all 
 look straight out of the mind of Akira Toriyama (Dragon Ball Z creator) . Every area looks beautiful, 
 and all the characters look smooth and beautifully rendered. I believe the blurr effect is a nice 
 touch, something that me and GS do not agree on.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is where my "old-school" terminology comes from. It plays just like the old school 
 RPGs back from the day with minor tweaks done to the formula. This is not a bad thing. As I said, 
 I am glad to see games like this are still being made, and having your shadow behind you in battle 
 is a great feeling once you see that 20 foot tall dragon shadow hulking behind you waiting to smash 
 your opponenets. While the gameplay is not as good as Lost Odyssey's, it definately fills the bill. 
 Plus, no random battles are to be found here since all your enemies are seen on screen. I actually 
 love this feature since I can simply avoid the enemies if I wish to not fight. You also have what 
 is called "Monster Fights" which is also one of my favorite features of this game as well. What 
 happens is if you pull the RT on the and have two seperate enemies in that perimeter and you see 
 their names highlighted in yellow than that means you can cause a monster fight. What happens is 
 once the fight begins, the two enemies will duke it out with each other before they even attack 
 you. Its one of the features you will end of using the most.
  
  THE SOUND is great. The music is awesome which is a given considering the music is composed by 
 Nobou Uematsu. The voice acting is good, with the exception of Marumaru. There are some cheesy 
 dialogue segments such as Shu's most overused saying "I will never give up."
  
  OVERALL Blue Dragon is a great game. It'll take a bit to get into it, but once you do you get pulled 
 in. Its not Lost Odyssey, but it's definately worthy of being called Sakaguchi's child. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Viking
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon reminds me of the adorable Hallmark birthday cards that my grandma used to send me. 
 As this cartoon-like quest unfolds, you'll see animals singing and dancing, and you'll soak up 
 a lifetime's worth of heartwarming moments. So does this mean that Blue Dragon is geared more toward 
 kids? Absolutely not. For every talking bear that you come across, you'll also encounter an unbelievably 
 challenging boss, or will hear your character yell, "You bastard!" It's not as dark as any of the 
 Final Fantasy titles, but this story is serious, and is easily identifiable as the work of Hironobu 
 Sakaguchi. The gameplay is also trademark Sakaguchi, offering a straightforward but addictive combat 
 experience, and a world that you want to scour every inch of. It's not often that you'll come across 
 an experience that makes you feel warm and fuzzy just as much as it makes you fear for your life, 
 but that's exactly what Blue Dragon does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThroatKick
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  My having purchased this game was a mistake. I bought it the first day that it came out expecting 
 it to finally be an rpg I could get engrossed in for the 360. I played for about 4 hours and just 
 had to trade it in for whatever credit I could get. All of these reviewers are giving this game 
 high reviews saying things like Old School. This is true in the fact that it brings back the poor 
 parts of rpgs that I want to forget. This game would be mediocre at best if you put its game-play 
 up against classic rpg game-play. If you are looking for a great old school styled rpg grab up 
 Dragon Quest VIII for the PS2. As for the actual review part of this I can only attest to the beginning 
 of the game since it chased me away early. The first issue is that I am 28 years old and the game 
 is geared towards an age group two decades younger than me. Some people can target a younger crowd 
 and still appeal to adults but this is not the case here. Also Blue Dragon is way to easy but this 
 may change later in the game. Finally lameness abounds in other ways like every stone, tree limb, 
 pipe, mud puddle, dandelion, grate, hill, mound, and grassy knoll has 3 gold pieces or an antidote 
 when you search. Overkill. Waste of money. Let down. Microsoft, it looked good on paper but you 
 bought the wrong people in Japan and probably paid way to much besides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWeymes
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I delayed buying this game for quite some time. I just bought it about a month ago. The poor reviews 
 shattered my hopes for this game. I'm glad I found it used at EB games, because it would have been 
 awful to miss such an enjoyable JRPG.
  
  Blue Dragon is easily the most enjoyable RPG I've played in a while. The story is not the most 
 mature, or inspired out there, so I understand where the critisism comes from, but it never set 
 out to be. Cutscenes in this game are very remenisant of old school RPGs, as well as lighthearted 
 animes. People that do not like cute animes, or old school RPGs should stay far, far away from 
 Blue Dragon.
  
  Many of the cutscenes in Blue Dragon are very cute, and humorous. The relationship between Marumaro 
 and Zola is absolutely adorable, and provided many of my favorite moments in Blue Dragon. Then, 
 of course, like many old school RPGs, the main character has a love interest. Although, there is 
 a small twist in Blue Dragon that I won't ruin for anyone.
  
  The gameplay in Blue Dragon is very traditional. Although there are a couple of exceptions. Rather 
 than random battles, you can see all of your enemies on screen before choosing to engage them in 
 battle. Instead of equiping weapons to each of your characters, you level up, and customize each 
 of your characters shadows. Each shadow class provides different kinds of magic, such as Barrier 
 Magic, Black Magic, Sword Magic, etc. I found the shadow system to be enjoyable, and was a good 
 change from the standard "buy new weapons in every town." Another thing in Blue Dragon that is 
 different from traditional JRPGs is that you can fight multiple enemies that appear on the map 
 at the same time to gain more experience, and power-ups. Other than the things I've mentioned above, 
 Blue Dragon maintains a very old school RPG feeling throughout the game. I count that as a positive, 
 because I adore many old RPGs.
  
  The graphics in Blue Dragon are very good in my opinion. My absolute favorite thing about Blue 
 Dragon are the enemy character models. Each enemy is unique, and very well animated. Each boss 
 looks amazing, and as the game progresses, they get more and more impressive. The playable characters 
 look great, although they are a little basic in terms of design. Despite that, they are all memorable 
 characters. The attack animations are all top of the line. The spell effects are great, and the 
 corporeals (summons) look amazing. The NPCs do not disappoint, and you will run across many memorable 
 characters throughout your journey. My favorite being Toripo! Each town looks great. They are all 
 unique, and none of them look like eachother. Most of the towns are large, and contain many people 
 to talk to. As for the dungeons, I thought that they were excellent as well. They aren't too large, 
 and they aren't too small. I thought that they were just perfect. Most of the dungeons are unique, 
 and none of them disappoint in the graphics department. Another thing to mention is the cutscenes. 
 Blue Dragon spans three discs mainly because of the FMV. The FMV cutscenes look incredible, and 
 even the cutscenes that use the game engine are well done.
  
  The sound in Blue Dragon is excellent as well. All of the voice overs are done very well in both 
 english and japanese. The music that accompanies towns, dungeons, the map, battles and cutscenes 
 all fit them very well and sound great. None of the music got annoying in my opinion. I thought 
 it fit the mood of the game very well. I've heard many complaints about the boss battle music, 
 and while at first, I found it to be a very odd choice, and I didn't think it fit the game well, 
 it really grew on me. I awaited many boss battles once the music was stuck in my head. 
  
  Overall, I think Blue Dragon is a must play for people that love anime, and JRPGs. Even if you 
 don't like anime, and you just enjoy old school RPGs, this is a must buy in my opinion. The gameplay 
 and the storyline is remenisant of many JRPGs of the past, and the graphics are great for this 
 generation, so that makes this game even better than many of the older RPGs I've played.
  
  The bottom line is that this game is excellent, and I am eagerly awaiting the sequel. The only 
 fault I found with this game was that there wasn't enough of it. I wanted more story, more bosses, 
 and more attacks. The sequel could be epic.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is one of the most fun JRPG I had for a long time. This game is soooo under-rated, 
 it is just plain sad how these reviewers gave it such a low score. The story, graphics, sound, 
 and gameplay are one of the best I've played for awhile.
  
  [Warning: little spoiler below]
  
  The story in Blue Dragon is very interesting and brings 
 you back everytime you play it. Very well done. You first start off the by playing Shu, the main 
 character. His village is being bothered by a land shark. The Land Shark destroys their village 
 every once a year. One day Shu had enough of this crap and decided to go against this Land Shark. 
 While fighting the Land Shark all by him, 2 of his friends joins him and beats the Land Shark. 
 It turns out that this Land Shark is a Machine created by an evil man named Nene. Shu and his friends 
 goes above and beyond to look for the person who is responsible for the Land Shark attacks and 
 found out that every village has their own problems created by Nene. This pissed them off and decided 
 to take care of Nene and the story goes on from there.
  
  Graphics are High Def, sharp, and no jaggies. The art-style of each character are based on somewhat 
 like Dragon Ball, which I'm a huge fan of. The characters are well done and colorful. I have never 
 seen such good graphics in an JRPG in my life. This is the first true next gen looking JRPG.
  
  Do you know what I really like about this game? The option of choosing Japanese Dialog. THIS 
 is what I want to see on all next gen JRPGs. I am tired of all these English dubs. It makes it 
 sound corny and dumb. With the option of turning on Japanese Dialog, I am able to enjoy it on its 
 own language. LOVE IT! The music is great and it makes me want to get the soundtrack for the songs 
 in the game. Very nice!
  
  They have kept the classic gameplay of JRPGs. A HUGE + for that. I love classic style JRPGs. This 
 brings back memory and it is a lot better than FFXII's gameplay. No offense to Final Fantasy games, 
 they are my favorites. Anyways, the game doesn't give you random battles and you can choose who 
 you wanna fight, which is awesome. You can also fight all enemies at the same time to give yourself 
 more experience.
  
  The only problems I have with blue dragon is the 3 DVDs and my X-box 360's disc read errors. Sometimes 
 my DVD tray wouldn't even open up. Microsoft really screw us consumers with this cheap hardware. 
 Anyways, that's another topic. Load times in Blue Dragon is NOT as bad as they say it is. if you 
 can deal with Final Fantasy loading, this is nothing.
  
  Overall, Blue Dragon is an excellent game. It would've been even better if this was on the PS3. 
 It will eliminate the problems I've stated above. Other than that, you have to play this game if 
 you are a JRPG fan.
  
  
  
  Overall, 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Mystwalker, one company on whom Microsoft have placed huge aspirations. To conquer the Japanese 
 market where the XBOX 360 has been doing more or less well disastrously. Enter their first title, 
 Blue Dragon a JRPG with a pedigree team of experts behind it and promising very, very much for 
 the console. So the question is, is Blue Dragon any good? Well unfortunately no not really, but 
 fortunately for Mystwalker the title is average enough to be enjoyable and not a complete train 
 wreck.
  
  
  Welcome to Akira Toriyama's Blue Dragon world, it looks almost the same as DragonBall Z, it has 
 colourful anime style characters, beautifully animated cutscenes (the reason the game graces 3 
 DVDs) and a battle of good vs. evil! Sounds like the ideal setting for an RPG no? Well unfortunately 
 the first thing that lets Blue Dragon down is it plot. In that it dosen't really have one other 
 than "repeatedly beat very evil bad guy using magical Blue mythical creatures that fly out the 
 casts back" . While the plot has a few moments of things like character development and occasional 
 glimpses of brilliance throughout what you mainly have here is a straight up "get stronger and 
 beat the bad guy" Shounen Jump style storyline. I'd love to say something more positive about it 
 but in Blue Dragon the story is mostly crap and the same throughout the title.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The cast while all equally as unoriginal as the storyline all do something to keep 
 you viewing. Shu our hero is blatantly going to appeal to any testosterone fuelled adolescent or 
 any fan of Dragonball, we have Jiro the slightly more brainy and emotional of the bunch (and likely 
 teased about being "gay" for most of his life) , and Kluke our token female with a tragic past the 
 first two both fancy. Later additions to the team come in the form of the intensely irritating 
 cat creature Maromaro and the shining light of coolness that is ninja-pirate hybrid woman Zola. 
 The good thing about this motley crew is that there is someone for everyone to like (well apart 
 from Maromaro) .
  
  
  The combat. Dear God. The combat. Someone needs to tell Mystwalker they are no longer working on 
 the same games they were 10 years ago. What we have here is a simple turn based style of play with 
 very little variety even amongst the games various classes and the only cool attacks actually arriving 
 on disc three. You take a turn, bash the enemies with your attacks (usually those with the opposite 
 corresponding element of the enemy) and then wait for the enemy to take their turn. Unless of course 
 you kill the enemy on the first turn of course the game is so ridiculously easy that quite often 
 you will do this (occasionally bosses didn't even manage to hit my party) . The one redeeming and 
 original feature of the combat in this game is the ability to kill enemies before entering turn 
 based combat with them. While running around the world you can unleash special attacks before bumping 
 onto the visible enemies on the map, thus killing them before entering turn based mode in a real 
 time way. However this innovation is short lived however as in the long run it proves fairly pointless 
 and useless as does the ability to surprise enemies by bumping into their backs to initiate you 
 having two turns at the start of the fight. That said what we have here could be right up your 
 street if your stuck in the past, what we have here is classic JRPG fighting and in the end I suppose 
 it's what some of you guys want. There are a few epic fights that do pick up the games temp and 
 prove a challenge but they are unfortunately few and far between, brief moments of how good Blue 
 Dragon could have been.
  
  
  Visually Blue Dragon is nice enough. The game is crisp, clear, high-res and has some amazing special 
 effects and gorgeously animated cutscenes; there is occasional excessive use of blurring effects 
 to hide lack of detail in the world but it's only a minor annoyance rather than game spoiling.
 
  
  
  
  Sound wise there is much disappointment here too, with famed composer Nobue Umatsu at the helm 
 more is expected from a soundtrack than just one memorable song (and that one is only memorable 
 as it's irritating) . Little to no music here is likeable or compelling to listen to. The voice 
 acting for the game in both languages is good and well delivered, although yes folks Maromaro is 
 irritating in ALL languages.
  
  
  
  For those who are a glutton for punishment there is a lot of game here. 30-40 hours for the main 
 plot and a tonne of level-grinding and sidequests should you be insane enough to do it. The game 
 is just TOO long for its simple style and while I gritted my teeth through most of the optional 
 content and did the main story by the halfway point you're going to be hoping the games at an end. 
 You likely will see the end animation but there are only brief moments of fun to be had getting 
 there, and a lot of patience.
  
  I did want to enjoy Blue Dragon, I truly, truly did. Unfortunately while bits of it did show the 
 true talent of the team behind of it, it came across as dull, unoriginal and bog standard average. 
 The game isn't bad by a long shot but neither is it good, it's just.. well.. meh.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueProphecy22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of RPG's and I've been yearning for a good 'old school' style game to play on my 
 360.
  
  We had Enchanted Arms, and that was fairly good... but there wasn't' any really great RPG's (Set 
 aside Oblivion) on the 360.
  
  We are doomed to wait for that amazing Final Fantasy quality game. This game is at its heart a 
 simple reminder of how RPG's used to be... however, it has some flaws.
  
  I'm going to be honest, i find the voice acting in this game to be atrocious, and that is one of 
 the major reasons I can't love this game. Cut scenes are short and to the point, the graphics aren't 
 too bad, the combat is interesting, albeit lacking in style, and the story is... well... it's alright.
 
  
  The enemy design is also one of the big problems with this game for me... there's just so many 
 "poo" monsters I can battle before I get disgusted.
  
  The music varies from amazing, (There's a part where everyone starts dancing and singing on disk 
 1, I could listen to that song for hours.) To obsurd, as the Boss music... which might not be such 
 a bad song except it's a short loop and you hear it over and over and over again throughout.
  
  Anyways, while there's a great number of problems and quirks that make this game feel off, 
 It still is the 'old school' RPG I've been waiting for, and for being so, almost to a fault, I 
 salute it. 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  *** BLUE DRAGON ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Excellent leveling system
  -Great music
  -Great story
  -Fun mini games
  -Lots of secrets and challenges
  -Great character development
 
  -Great battle system
  
  THE BAD
  -Graphics are very plain
  -Marumaro is an annoying character
  -Some frame rate and load time issues
  
  OVERVIEW
  
 Blue Dragon is an RPG that really grows on you. When I first started playing the game I thought 
 that this game was going to have a "kid" story with very weak character development. That view 
 quickly changed as I progressed through the game. The story is actually really good (and not kidish) 
 and most of the characters are very likable. The story starts off in a rural town where you meet 
 the main character, Shu. Shu is a 16 year old kid with a lot of heart and never gives up at anything. 
 Shu's two friends Jiro and Kluke (playable characters) also live in this town. Everything seems 
 peaceful until a "land shark" comes and starts destroying the whole town. Shu, Jiro and Kluke decide 
 that they have had enough of the land shark's destruction and devise a plan to take it down. Some 
 how their plan actually works in stalling the land shark from further destruction. Then the three 
 find out that this land shark is actually a machine. Later they find out that an evil wizard named 
 Nene is behind not only the destruction caused by the land shark but the destruction of other villages 
 all across the world. So, Shu and company go to confront Nene, which proves to be useless, and 
 they are captured. When they succeed in escaping, a mysterious voice tells them to swallow these 
 "Light Spheres". The hesitant party does what they are told and then come to find out that there 
 shadows can come alive and have magic powers. With this new found power and the help of Marumaro 
 and Zola, who also have this magic power, they start their quest to find and stop Nene from destroying 
 the world. The story starts off a little slow but really picks up through out the game. One thing 
 to watch out for is the annoyingly long loading times between cut-scenes. There are some exciting 
 plot twists in this game and the character development is done well. I liked all the playable characters 
 except for Marumaro. Marumaro is younger then everybody else and it definitely shows with his whining 
 and loud, stupid comments. Most of the time when he speaks you'll find yourself saying "shut up"! 
 But the other characters are really cool that you can relate too.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Mistwalker uses some old tricks for the game play but also looked at some of the annoyances of 
 RPGs, like the leveling up period, and made them less painful. The leveling system is based on 
 a semi-job class system. Each character's shadow can be equipped with a class like Black mage, 
 White mage, Monk, Sword Master, etc... Once the class is equiped that character can start unlocking 
 skills with that class like White magic, counter attack, charged defense, etc... Now what makes 
 this different then a full job system is that once you learn a skill from a specific class, you 
 can use that skill on any other class. You have a certain amount of skill slots (which you can 
 unlock more with the generalist class) where you can use any of the skills that you have already 
 unlocked. So, you have the option to freely customize each character in your party. In Blue Dragon 
 you gain experience points (EXP) which levels your character and Skill Points (SP) which levels 
 your class. Another thing to you note is that when you level up your class (with SP) your characters 
 attributes (strength, magic attack, defense, etc...) increase. I really enjoyed this the most about 
 this game because you can customize your characters, it is easy to use and leveling up is easy, 
 which I will talk about later.
  
  The battle system combines the MMORPG and RPG styles. You move around with one character in your 
 party and you can see the enemies on the screen. To fight the enemy you just have to touch them 
 and if you hit them from behind you'll get a back attack but be careful because this also applies 
 to you. Once you activate a fight with an enemy the game changes to a Turn-Based battle. You can 
 see the attack order on the top of the screen so you can plan out your attacks accordingly. Another 
 thing that you can do is charge up your individual attacks to do more damage but this takes longer 
 to perform. One down fall to this is that the frame rate slows down when you have multiple characters 
 charging up an attack. You also have the option to fight multiple enemies at once by pressing and 
 holding the RT button. When you do this, any enemies that are inside of the radius of the attack 
 circle will be involved in the fight. Now there are one of two things that can happen. First, you 
 could have a Monster Fight which just means that you go up against all the enemies that you chose 
 to fight at once. But don't worry it is called a Monster Fight for a reason because the enemies 
 start fighting each other first before they attack you. The second thing that could happen is that 
 you fight each enemy in consecutive order with a chance for a bonus, in between fights, like HP 
 restored, all status aliments cured, magic attack up, etc... So, there is a big advantage to attacking 
 multiple enemies at once. Like I said before leveling up can be easy in this game with the right 
 skills. Along with skills that you can use in battles there are skills that you can use on the 
 field. One skill in particular is in the Barrier magic class called Field Barrier. With this skill 
 all you have to do is defeat a specific monster once and then every other time you can just run 
 into them on the field and automatically kill them and earn SP. This is a huge help later in the 
 game when you need to level your characters up because it is very quick and easy. I really love 
 this feature in Blue Dragon.
  
  Blue Dragon offers a decent size world with lots of secrets to find and mini games to play. If 
 you are finding that the bosses in the story are easy you might want to try fighting some of the 
 optional bosses like the King Poo Snake and the five dragons. Each are difficult even for the high 
 level and well experienced gamer. But, like always, the reward is well worth your time. Along with 
 some other side quests there are some parts in the game where you have to do some first person 
 shooting (on a flying machine) . This is a good break from the norm and keeps things fresh.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Not too much to look at here. The graphics are very plain and there isn't too much 
 detail in the game. This is probably the weakest part to this game. 
  
  SOUND
  Well most of the music is very good, mainly because Nobuo Uematsu is a brilliant composer. However, 
 the boss music feels a little out of place. The sound effects and voice are very good as well.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Blue Dragon is a great RPG. It is one of those games that can be easily overlooked but if you really 
 sit down and play the game you'll find that this game has a lot of depth to it. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone. There is a great story told here and plenty of good RPG action. So, just like 
 Shu saying that he will never give up you shouldn't give up on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popeyfolger
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  This game left a lot to be desired. For you RPG fans this game might be worthy of a look, for those 
 of you who don't Blue Dragon isn't right for you. The game starts off very slow. The combat system 
 lacks depth and the story seems fairly simple. The graphics are well done though they seem very 
 child like by today's standards. Most of the game lacks a degree of difficulty or interest I felt 
 like I was just battling on through mindless fight after mindless fight. It seems like a generic 
 clone just another outdated RPG. It lacked creativity or any feeling of a refreshment. Without 
 a really gripping story It would be tough for me to tell anyone this game is a must own. Added 
 with it pre release date hype I would say that this game is a Giant disappointment. Great for some 
 but for most to avoid
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Much to do, you can spent easily 50-80h with it
  +Once youre used to the graphics-style its awesome
  +New Game + downloadable
  +Awesome Soundtrack
 
  +Classic, easy to use Battle-System
  +Some parts are challenging
  +You can change the Language (Japanese is not in the European/German-Version)
  
  The Bad:
 
  -Too many Blur effects
  -Sometimes a bit too childish
  -AWFUL Voice-Acting (played the German Version, but the English didnt seem much better)
  
  
 First off, I play RPGs since I can think of. I love the classic ones even more then the newer ones, because 
 they often got better dungeon-design and a more tactical fighting system. This game got what I expected.
 
  
  The Graphics:
  Since it is from the Dragon-Ball-Designer it looks pretty much like it, but since the Graphics are 
 not Cell-Shaded it has a bit of its own style. I didnt like it first, but it really grew on me 
 with the game and after playing it through it was really impressive at some points. Only the unsharpness-effects 
 getting on the nerves.
  
  The Sound:
  The Music is awesome for the main part, seemed a bit Grandia-inspired to me, but at least inspired 
 by the classical good parts. Of course it has it let-downs but every RPG got it, so it isnt that 
 bad. The 5.1-Mix of the Sound-FX is also really great made (doesnt happen too often in RPGs) so 
 even people with a good Sound-system will be pleased. Only the English Voice-Acting is horrible 
 as far as I heard... I played it in German and this one was even worse... maybe the worst Ive ever 
 heard and the list is loooong. Ind the US-Version you can at least switch to japanese.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Welcome to the Major part: Even if the Storyline isnt completely uninteresting 
 its not a big throw as well. But since the World, Dungeons and all surrounding stuff is well made, it 
 doesnt matter that much. The class system and the fighting system is entertaining and well made 
 and really easy to get in. You got a big world to explore, many lovely made cutscenes to watch and 
 will be entertained for easily more then 50h. Theres absolutely nothing to complain about.
  
  Soooo:
  Every newbie can take a look at it, for old RPG-Fans its absoluely a must-have. It 
 cant get more classic, with all the good stuff you expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Many here have commented that that job and skill system is pretty good and I agree. One of the 
 game's strengths is that one can truly customise your characters skillsets and you can re-customise 
 at any time between battles. It helps that the monsters are amusingly strange and imaginitively 
 drawn. Its cool to see what odd creatures the game will come up with next.
  
  But everything else about this RPG game wavers somewhere near mediocre. The environments are often 
 strikingly bland on this supposed "next-gen" game. To make matters worse the onscreen map is nearly 
 useless. There's another larger map that can be called up but it is almost devoid of markers of 
 any sort. Its also pretty useless. So this means when you are walking around these barren landscapes, 
 it isnt clear where one map ends and another begins, even after you've entered an area at least 
 once. There's really no excuse for a game to offer this little information about where one is and 
 where one is going, especially when the gameworls is so large. Many reviewers dont mention just 
 how bland the gameworld is, so I make a point of talking about it here.
  
  The turn-based battles are executed well. Though once you have the skills to auto-regenenate health 
 and magic points, the game becomes easy. There's a downloadable patch that offers greater difficulty 
 levels but that wont help the glaring simplicity of the battle mechanics. 
  
  
  As other have mentioned the characters are about as bland as ever created in a JRPG. 
  
  Its 
 not a game I can wholeheartedly recommend unless one really likes Japanese turn-based RPGs and 
 has to play them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicariouslyme
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  Was so excited for this game.. its like a huge anime and i love it and i just thought mistwalker 
 would take this to the next level of rpgs. I was waiting for a final fantasy look alike with added 
 bonuses but i never got that dream.. The layout of the maps in the world i so boring and story 
 doesnt have the epicness it needs. It starts off ok but in my opinion the way you get the battles 
 is a bad addition to the game and its toooo open for me i duno i dont like the feel of it and the 
 way the game plays. I wish it was more cluttered woth large cities more puzzles and stuff like 
 ff but its not.. plus it is possible to go through the game without an acheievment. i dont look 
 at a game for acheievements but with a game like this u need an incentive and you just dont get 
 it from this game.. maybe i didnt give it enough time with four discs its an absoluley huge game.. 
 the characters also didnt grip me like they should have with an rpg.. the characters are a large 
 part of an rpg and should grip you from the begining but i could relate to either of them and didnt 
 feel anyting for them which made the game a bit boring.. the story didnt seem to be very interest 
 and didnt immerse me at points i was thinking what am i doing because i became a drone and just 
 played it without feeling which is bad.. it did drift away the hours and its a good concept but 
 its not a game i would play through again like i did with the ffs sorry mistwalker you gota pull 
 your game up i have high hopes for lost odyssey!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first downloaded the demo of this game to give it a try... I was thinking if it really is 
 a great game or is gamespot actually right about this game being a "Unexceptional" RPG... When I 
 played it, I was like "uhh, what's wrong with this game, this is fun!" and I went out and bought 
 the game. Ive been playing it non-stop this week... I also needed a break from all that Call of 
 Duty shooting too. This is by far, the best JRPG on the Xbox 360. (that is if it has plenty of 
 them)
  
  Lets go first on the gameplay... those familiar with the Final Fantasy series will have no difficulty 
 playing this... its pretty much the same thing, levelling up characters, command fighting, and all 
 of that... What makes the game pretty fun is just how deep it is... the story is spectacular and 
 the music also is magnificent... Nobuo Uematsu is a legend when it comes to making music for RPG 
 games.
  
  The graphics aren't Gears of War, BioShock, or Call of Duty type but not all games are meant to 
 be huge on graphics... however I actually do like the cartoon style of this game... some of the levels 
 actually look very well polished and designs for the levels are magnificent too. Like I said, its 
 not top graphics but not too bad either.
  
  Controls.... well its the traditional JRPG so you shouldn't have any difficulty.
  
  Overall, 
 this game is tons of fun that you will be playing for hours and hours. Even though GS gave it a 
 6.0... Ive seen many people give it over 9's and even 10's and all the other magazines/websites 
 gave this game a good score... I don't know any other way to tell you how great this game is, but 
 just give the demo at least a download and you will see yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is a classic example of a game being a victim of it's hype. With involvement from Hironobu 
 Sakaguchi (Final Fantasy) Akira Toriyama (Dragon Ball Z) and music from Nobuo Uematsu (Final Fantasy) , 
 along with the extremely limited selection of JRPGS for the 360, a whole lot of hope and expectations 
 were riding on this title. Unfortunately BD, while certainly not a bad game, does not provide the 
 memorable experience that many people were anticipating.
  
  GAMEPLAY (7) As opposed to random battles the enemies in BD will be visible, though occasionally 
 they will pop out of the ground or drop out of the sky in front of you for a surprise battle. There 
 are some interesting mechanics that can be employed before starting a battle, such as taking on 
 multiple enemies or sometimes getting different monsters to battle each other. The actual battles 
 are turn-based with the difference being that your characters actions are done through its shadow, 
 which determines the characters class, such as white or black magic user, swordmaster etc. As you 
 go along you can switch classes between characters so that your fighter can learn different healing 
 and attack spells, for example. Most battles are done quickly, and I should point out that all 
 battles, boss battles included, are extremely easy through the first 75-80% of the game but can 
 then become considerably more challenging, especially at the very end of the game. Of course you'd 
 expect final boss battles to be difficult but I found the disparity to be huge compared to most 
 other RPGs. As you explore both villages and the outside world you can check out almost every item 
 you come across to see if it contains any useful items. At first this can be entertaining as you 
 constantly collect gold or items but after awhile it can become time consuming to the point of 
 just not being worth it. Combine this element with the fact that many times you'll be going through 
 some rather bland environments and this adds up to some stretches where the game can be a bit dull 
 until you come to a place that advances the story.
  
  GRAPHICS (8) Despite the fact that you will sometimes be in boring environments, overall BD does 
 present an attractive world. The characters have a unique 3-D look to give them a next-gen look. 
 Of course the characters have a Dragon Ball design, which might influence your opinion one way 
 or the other. There can be great differences in the environments, at times boring and then other 
 areas that will be quite detailed and fun to explore. There are quite a few CG scenes, which explains 
 the need for three disks, and I found them to be entertaining to watch.
  
  SOUND (7) The first point I'll mention is that the game gives you the option to have the characters 
 speak in the original Japanese, so that's always a plus for me as I enjoy hearing the language 
 and they won't annoy me like a poorly done English voice would. Unfortunately the music for the 
 most part was rather forgettable . Throughout most of the game you'll hear two different songs, 
 one for basic battles and another for the boss battles, and many people simply hate the boss battle 
 song, though personally I didn't mind it since at least it was different and surprisingly featured 
 the singer from Deep Purple!
  
  VALUE (7) It took me approximately 45 hours to complete the game, and that was sticking to the 
 main quest for the most part though I did go on a couple of side quests as well. Near the end of 
 the game you'll be able to get to a number of areas that were previously inaccessible and will 
 provide more exploring and hours of gameplay if you're interested. I bought a used copy of this 
 game for $35 and overall I felt it gave a reasonable amount of value for this price.
  
  STORY/CHARACTERS (6) Unfortunately a bit weak compared to the top RPGs. While the characters have 
 a nice detailed look they don't posses a whole lot of personality, therefor I never got to the 
 point where I really cared about what would happen to them. There's no one here that is unique 
 or really very interesting. The story involves kids fighting against a bad guy that wants to take 
 over the world and make everyone suffer, again nothing unique though occasionally things will happen 
 to pick up the pace. What I did find was that near the end of the second disk and definitely into 
 the third disk the pace picks up and the story becomes much more interesting. It's just a shame 
 that I had to go through about 30 hours of gaming to get to that point. Basically I'd have to say 
 that if you own a 360 and really want a JRPG, even if it's not going to be a particularly memorable 
 one, then go ahead and get Blue Dragon if you can get it for a decent price. Otherwise I'd say 
 make sure you've played all of the better RPGs for the PS2 first because there are many available 
 for the older console that will give you a much more enjoyable time overall than Blue Dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  
  You have to admit it, Sony is the where Japanese Rpgs call home. For the past decade, sony has 
 been dominating this department. While Xbox fanboys had nothing to cheer about. Final Fantasy, 
 Dragon Quest, Dark Cloud, Persona, you name it. All are exclusive to Playstation. Well times are 
 changing, systems are evolving and system exclusitivity are literaly gone for good. This meant 
 only one thing. Microsoft could finally have their own japanese rpg company, while Square is synomous 
 with sony, xbox gets Mistwalker and with that said we get our first grand jap xbox adventure. Blue 
 Dragon. From the creators Chrono Trigger, the all star team of 
  Final Fantasy creator Hironobu Sakuguchi, former Square musical artist Nobuo Uematsu and DBZ Artist 
 Akira Toryiami comes something special. Blue Dragon is kinda like a recollection of rpg's greatest 
 features, it has everything a rpg fan could want. It has the heart warming moments, but at times 
 its nothing but seriousness. It has the Unbelievable Graphics with the unique art style. The intense 
 turn-based battles with the awesome fight music. The Believable characters and the despicable villians, 
 an touching storyline with a huge world to explore. All this and more, is why Blue Dragon is so 
 great, it is nothing short of rpg nostalgia and that is because it chains together diffrent rpgs 
 all in one. It has all the old fashioned traits that remind me of the good old days, games like 
 ff5 an chrono trigger ponder in my mind while playing Blue Dragon. Blue Dragon uses old traditions 
 but at the same it adds on new incarnations, which is a grand experiece that xbox fanboys haven't 
 lived through yet.
  
  I Have to get a job?
  
  The Job system in Blue Dragon is tried and done, but its something that i haven't seen in a long 
 while. I'm happy customizing my party to my tastes and i haven't had this much fun doing that since 
 FFIX. Your choices are limitless, you have the ability to craft your party from white mages to 
 swordsman and it couldn't be any better. Needless to say that your characters can learn each others 
 abilities. Plus leveling is easy in the game.
  
  The Story
  
  Japanese rpgs always had the best stories in my opinion. They usually lasted longer and always 
 stirred my emotions. Well Blue Dragon is on the same page. It is magical and heartwarming, you 
 can feel a pixar like presence. It isn't a bad thing cuz the game does wow you with some serious 
 stuff. As always, the story has to start somewhere, in this case its Talta Village; a small rural 
 town where life is simple. Purple clouds rise every year bringing chaos to the village. The reason 
 why is simply cuz of the land shark (the name says it all) . This brings us to our main character 
 Shu, an young 16yr old boy who is impulsive as he is always ready to dive into battle, he is also 
 outgoing and never gives up. wielding only a small blade shu and his friends Jiro and Kluke try 
 to fight off the land shark. you truly can see the relationship between these characters as if 
 they were real world friends. Incidently, your first turn based battle occurs which you all should 
 know that you aren't victorious. This leads to a long cutscene and somehow shu and company trap 
 the landshark. It crashes into the old mine and lay ruined. Turns out, the landshark was actually 
 mechanical, meaning it was just a giant robot. Shu and his friends venture farther in the mines 
 and find a secret robot base, here they meet Nene and find these magic orbs where it gives the 
 characters shadows. basically magic. on the otherhand Nene is one of the most disgusting and malevolent 
 villians i've seen in a long time. Nene only wants to bring chaos to the world, as if his only 
 emotion is hate. Nene's shadow is a much stronger shadow than yours. It glows with a emulant purple 
 glow and strikes with no mercy. Shu and his friends get thrown out of the base and thus begins 
 their adventure to stop nene from bringing chaos to the world. It might not be the most original 
 piece of work but its rather one of the most interesting this year. The world is filled with many 
 magnificent towns and dungeons, and every area of the map looks diffrent. one thing i like about 
 the world is that the monsters are visible and you can enter the fight however you want. you can 
 strike from the back or take multiple at a time. There is also this thing called monster fights 
 where you can use the a realistic food chain to your advantage. Treasure chests are scattered and 
 you will always miss one or two, so those are reasons to revisit areas. Later in the game you also 
 get a airship, so thats something i haven;'t seen in a while either.
  
  Entering the fight
  
  Blue Dragon's battle system is grand too. As i mentioned before you can 
 enter fights how you want and use shadows. Those are the main elements in the game. Players fight 
 with and develop their shadows and you have your basic attacks and magic. Instead of Firaga you 
 get a generic name for "fire", and so on. Depending on your class you have special attacks differenting 
 on many types. Late in the game, you finally get your limit breaks and these are just awesome. 
 battles usually take up a couple minutes but boss battle can take up a little more. Don't expect 
 too much challenge though until the final offerings the game has. Most noticable the last boss. 
 Also the deep purple fight music can get a tad bit off.
  
  In conclusion
  
  mentioning all that sounds like blue dragon is a perfect game huh? well not quite, for one thing 
 its not as fresh as it can be, and its missing the ground breaking moments that could make it legendary. 
 And i wished there was a bit more challenge, this is the first rpg where i didn't have to level 
 up as much as i do. your safe on the last boss if your level 57 or up so that was the only hard 
 part in the game. Even though the game has 3 discs doesn't mean it is the longest game ever. That 
 leads me to another issue, I feel the main story is far too short. But luckily the extra stuff 
 in the game will hold you over putting up 80+ hours. Sadly though the achievements don't seem to 
 be worth it . As you can see Blue Dragon has problems, but that doesn't stop it from achieving 
 greatness. Xbox fanboys have finally a japanese rpg to holler about and you shouldn't believe the 
 negative hype. As long as you still have a soft spot for japanese rpgs, blue dragon will do no 
 harm. Now only to see what upcoming Lost Odyssey has in store to top it.
  
  *subscores are out of 10
  
  Graphics-9.0
  
  Sound-9.0
  
  Control-9.0
  
  Story-8.5
 
  
  Gameplay-9.25
  
  Fun Factor-8.75
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you love RPG's like Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest then you'll most likely love this 
 game. I know I did. Its made by the creator of Final Fantasy exclusivley for the Xbox 360! its 
 a 3-Disc game that is mostly because of cut-scene's but hey, at least you know the cut-scene's 
 are done really well and not crappy like some other game's do them. The game starts off with everyone 
 obtaining there Shadow's powers from Nene's (main villian) ship by a misterious voice that tell's 
 them to swallow these sphere's. Nene has been terrorizing the world for a while now and a group 
 of kids (Shu, Jiro, and Kluke) because there tired of Nene terrorizing there village with a land 
 shark (motorized machiene that has a fin that sticks out of the ground that can remind of you a 
 shark) so one day they try to stop it. we'll they do for the time being but they also get lost 
 underneath there village until they are swept up with the land shark onto Nene's ship. Later on 
 in the game you get two more playable characters (Marumaro and Zola to make a total of 5 playable 
 characters) both of which you get before the end of disc one (you get Marumaro soon after getting 
 your powers and Zola is obtained towards the very end of disc one) they are all on a quest to stop 
 Nene from destroying the world and have alot of obsticales along the way.
  
  Again, if you love Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest then this should already be in your collection! 
 now we just have to wait for Blue Dragon 2 to be released which is a painful wait because of how 
 good this one is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  In 2001, Final Fatasy 10 creator, Heranobu Sakaguchie, left square nix to make his own studio. 
 While there, Microsoft asked if Sakaguchi if he could make a game for there X-Box 360, which bombed 
 in Japan. With the help of Dragon Ball creator/Dragon quest artest, Akira Toriyama, and squar music 
 player, Nobua Habotsu, Sakaguchi started Creating Blue Dragon. Now, Blue Dragon is here. While 
 it doesn't live up to the hip, it's still a solid RPG. Most RPG's have some epic, sometimes mushy, 
 and/or intrestering story. Blue Dragon, unfochently doesn't. It seems a creature called the Land 
 Shark is attacking a village, and 3 kid, Shu, Kluke, and Jeiro, fight back, and Shu just woun't 
 give up. It seems that a being named Nenay has used acient technology and is trying to take over 
 the world. During a narrow escape, The kids swallow magic balls of light and there shadows come 
 to life. The story does have some epic moments and it does get the job done, but it's that the 
 story is cookie cutter, and the characters a pretty card board. The voice acting is solid, but 
 it follows the rule that "the smaller the character, the more annoying they get." Sure, when Shu 
 open's his mouth, you don't want to punch him. But when Jar-Jar binck es sidekick, MaruMaru, opens 
 his mouth, you want to hurt him so badly. The game is pretty linear RPG, your always going forward, 
 With little back traking. The game also has no Side quest to speak of. While in the open, all monsters 
 can be seen so you can avoid them. There are a couple of mini games, but there not difficult. The 
 gameplay is a stander Turn-Base RPG. The combat is solid. As a Stand alone RPG, Blue Dragon is 
 a solid title. Leveling up is still addicitive and fun as all RPG's do. An intresting thing is 
 that you can see all of your enemies before going into battle, like FF12. The game also lets you 
 spring in multiple Monstors, which some times can cause Monster battles, were the battles go faster 
 since monsters attack other monsters. You can change juggle class syetems, like many RPG's do, 
 and you can use
  Summoning moves, like other RPG's. But, when doing Summonings, this can hurt the fram rate. All 
 of the small complaints can be forgiven, But the only big problem with Blue Dragon is that it's 
 not unique, You'll find the same problems in other RPG's. The Graphics are some of the best on 
 the 360 system. Instead of just Cell-shadeing everything, Blue Dragon use a some what off a stop 
 motion creation. The characters are round and soft like Akira's creations, and the creatures are 
 have the personality of his creation. The music is pretty good. The game has some average music 
 you would predict from a RPG. The soft piano pieces are also nice, but the game also has the butt-stomp 
 music the Japanese love, which in in America, we don't like. Blue Dragon is a solid game if your 
 looking for a good RPG. But if you looking for a unique one, the game doesn't live up to the hip. 
 But still, your not gonna find a better Japanese RPG for the X-Box 360, The last one wasn't very 
 good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strandyboy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  The first thing which gripped me was the graphics of the game, funky fresh and just detailed enough 
 to look good, Villages are well designed and fleshed out, Not really a blurry texture in sight
 
  
  I was in two minds at first with this game being set around children however that can bee seen 
 past. However as gamespot rightly said characters are not very varied and interesting, clothes 
 wise there is nothing exciting to define them, then theres the voices, for the most part there 
 ok..... Untill! that annoying little MaruMaru shows his face, as if the main character saying "I 
 WONT GIVE UP" after nearly every sentence wasnt bad enough, this guy will kill you.
  
  Storyline wise, i found this very interesting, if not familiar.
  The combat in the game reminds 
 me of final fantasy 10, which is a great thing as the system in that game was the best ive ever 
 played in a RPG, before they ruined it with 11 and 12.
  
  
  All in all i was happy with this game and would say its better than enchanted arms which also was 
 a good game.
  
  This is a keeper not a renter.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealdj813
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Gave it a 10 simply for a) its the only game fantasy rpg besides 2 others for 360. b) gamespot 
 critics are retards that dont play the full game is seems before they vote a rating.
  I mean look at halo 3's rating. I get the feeling GS rates games based on predicted sales for the 
 game not the actual gameplay. Never go by gamespot reviews they are completly worthless. All about 
 how much money the company paid them. The only games they dont mess with are the ones that are 
 un-questionable. Like most FF games, giving anything less then 7 for them would put GS at a joke 
 for critic reviews. I guess they didn't realize who the main guy is that made THIS one. Good job 
 GS on another review moron critic review. (o no don't give me a warning for saying the truth!!!) 
 peace, Game Informer ONLY!
  
  P. S.
  The game is only hard if u skip playing on normal mode and DL the free hard/impossible mode mod. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  If you do not wish to read the full review I have made a brief; good and bad points about Blue 
 Dragon.
  
  Good: Long story which spans over 3 discs, music is astounding, graphics suit the gameplay and 
 style of Blue Dragon, animation and uniqueness for each characters spells/abilties are both amusing 
 and cool to look at.
  
  Bad: English voice acting is not great, Playable Characters seem to have mostly jumped out of DBZ.
 
  
  Originally I did not show much interest at all in Blue Dragon, and the only reason I bought it 
 was because, it was a buy 1 get 1 free sale at GAME. I did not play the game once it had arrived, 
 I merely placed into the disc drive to see if it worked. After 1000 gamerscoring Cod4, I was looking 
 at my games collection to see what SP game to play next. And so I chose Blue Dragon.
  
  The beginning of the game began very slowly, like an astmathic old lady with some heavy shopping, 
 after about 20-30 minutes or so I gained the power of my shadows. After that the game started to 
 get good, using all the powers of the elements with my characters was very cool. Also the game 
 is 3 discs long so it has quite a long storyline, I have yet to finish the game so I do not know 
 if I am satisfied with the story.
  
  The character design of the N/PCs, (Non/Playable Characters) , were done by the famous Akira Toriyama, 
 who is known for his work in the Dragonball series. The NPCs such as creatures and merchants are 
 very unique and add to the weirdness and wonderful to look at visuals, that Blue Dragon has. However 
 the character designs seem to have almost jumped from DBZ, Shu looks like Teen Gohan, Kluke looks 
 like a young Bulma and Marumaro looks like the pig (can't remember his name) . The graphic style 
 of Blue Dragon is pleasent to look at and suits the style of gameplay very well.
  
  The music is probably one of the most stunning points of Blue Dragon, composed by the famous FF 
 composer, Nobuo Uematso. You cannot help but love this music, it's even better than the end of 
 portal "Still Alive" song. The music sets the mood well and can be enjoyed by many ages. The voice 
 acting for the English translation jumps from awful to above mediocre during the story. GET SOME 
 REAL ACTORS TO DO VOICE OVERS FOR JAPANESE RPGS AND ANIME, heck get the guys from FF to send some 
 actors over.
  
  The gameplay itself is fun, but can get annoying at times. I have not been much of a fan of turn-based 
 games, but Blue Dragon is an exception, the animation and uniqueness of each creature or characters 
 spells or special abilities, make up for the FF gameplay which Blue Dragon uses.
  
  Overall Blue Dragon is a fun game which can be enjoyed by most ages, DO NOT LISTEN TO GS' REVIEW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battalionwars13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were great and i really like the anime style especially the blue beasts they were 
 amaziing looking coming out of your shadows and stuff, i could see how people wouldnt like it but 
 since when i was younger i always use to watch Dragonball z and every know and then on saturdays 
 i watch naruto or dragonball z so i dont really mind the style (its same guy that made the character 
 designs for dragonball z anyway) . The sound i thought it was great , i see a lot of people say 
 that the boss music is crap but i really like it, you get use to it. I really like the turn based 
 fighting system (the only way i would play a RPG) . Its on three discs because there is a lot of 
 uncut scenes and there is a large world. If your into the anime style, wont mind the boss music, 
 is in to the anime style and is a huge fan of turn based RPG's or to say any kind of RPG's fan 
 should really look into buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I rarely play the Xbox 360 mainly because I don't like shooters and it's rare when there's a AAA 
 360 title that doesn't involve guns. Blue Dragon was supposed to be the great hope for the Xbox 
 in Japan and has become the best selling 360 game in Japan, it's just too bad it didn't sell more 
 360s over there.
  
  Developed by the team that made the SNES RPG, Chrono Trigger, Blue Dragon had some lofty expectations 
 to meet and let me just say that I am not a huge RPG player but this one sparked my interest.
 
  
  Blue Dragon begins when three kids, Shu, Jiro and Kluke try to stop a monstorous creature called 
 the Landshark from destroying their village. Their attempts to stop this creature bring them into 
 the presence of the game's villian Nene, an evil scientist of sorts. While trying to escape Nene, 
 the kids are told by a mysterious voice to swallow spheres of light which give them the ability 
 to command giant shadow creatures. They then find themselves on a quest to stop Nene and use their 
 powers to save the kingdom. Along the way they meet up with the annoyingly sweet Marumaro and mercenary 
 vixen, Zola who also have these shadow abilities.
  
  Sadly while most RPGs are known for their stories, the story here isn't overly engaging. It's pretty 
 straightforward with no shocking plot twists. The characters themselves aren't too deep either 
 and the voice acting is on the same level as most Sonic games (that's not a compliment) , however 
 I blame this on a poor English translation. Luckily if you want, you can change the language to 
 French or Japanese. Remember you have three discs worth of cutscenes.
  
  While the story isn't the best, the turn based RPG gameplay is very solid. But it doesn't offer 
 anything really new or revolutionary. It's your standard I hit you, you hit me, she cures me with 
 a potion style gameplay, but it's your shadows doing the attacks. What I do like about it is unlike 
 with say Final Fantasy, when your traveling through the fields you can see enemies walking around 
 on the battlefield and opt to attack them and try for a back attack to give your team the upper 
 hand or you can hold the trigger and select several enemies at once to help boost experience points. 
 In some cases you can initiate "Monster Fights" where the enemies will attack each other saving 
 you much time. I do like these aspects of the gameplay.
  
  When you're not fighting monsters you can explore towns and dungeons where nosing through people's 
 things can pay off. Almost every shelf and vase seems to have an item hidden and patient gamers 
 can find a lot of goodies hidden throughout the world of Blue Dragon, but with all the goodies 
 to find, it is also easy to power up your team to the point where most battles aren't super challenging, 
 but careful use of the class system allows your characters to customize their skills.
  
  Graphically Blue Dragon does look nice though some feel it's too cartoony for the realistic, gritty 
 worlds of the Xbox. The characters were designed by the folks who did Dragonball Z and Dragon Quest 
 so they might look familiar. However I think this style gives the characters a certain charm and 
 makes them more likeable in a game where they aren't very deep. However I had a complaint with 
 slowdown in parts of the game mostly during certain moves in battle. It does get annoying and should've 
 been cleaned up before release. Musically the game has one of the best scores around from sweeping 
 orchestras to soft piano tunes, the game is a feast for the ears with one exception, the boss battle 
 music. Every single boss battle has a loud and annoying rock song that plays through all 3 discs 
 and it gets stuck in your head. You may want to turn down the TV during it after a while.
  
  Despite all it's shortcomings, I enjoyed this game. The characters are lovable, the gameplay 
 is solid and there's a lot to explore, but I can see where it would fall short of the high expectations. 
 If you bought it for the story or something new and innovative, you'll be disappointed but if you're 
 looking for a solid RPG on the 360, then I recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmelvyn
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Would've been a great game in the '90s or maybe then I was too young to care.
  
  It comes on 3 discs! Wow, even Oblivion was a single disc title. I wanted to like this game. I 
 was looking forward to this game. I am a fan of the early Final Fantasy games and turn based RPG's 
 in general and the visual style of this game is great. 
  
  However, its cliche story, annoying kiddie characters and linear slow paced game play turn spending 
 time with this game into a chore. I am near the end and finding myself trying to finish it just 
 for the sake of finishing it rather than any other motivating factor. 
  
  Blue Dragon 2? No thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BestGame92
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Spanning 3 discs, Blue Dragon is actually a true RPG to finally step into the Xbox 360. Taking 
 advantage of that, Blue Dragon offers an amazing experience of adventuring that can last up to 
 50-60 hours of gameplay and nice looking graphics. Though, what I like most about Blue Dragon is 
 that its pure Role Playing , where you actually take turns attacking: unlike most games that get 
 dubbed RPG and isn't really that true formula. Anyways, the story, at first is very bland and boring, 
 (first disc to be more specific) where your a character named Shu, figures out something thats 
 terribly going wrong in a small town that he and his grandfather live in. He ventures with other 
 allies such as an intelligent boy, Jiro, and a high-spirited girl, Kluke, to fight along with you 
 and unique dragons, that are you shadows, that fight along- surprisingly adding some more gameplay 
 fun. You level up like every RPG game does, and gain stronger stats for your character and your 
 shadow, as you venture forth in your long, immense journey and you get to explore an beautifully 
 open world, where there are many items you get to customize your characters with. One thing though 
 that needed more work was the sound, as the Voice-Overs sound to simple and kiddish, and the music 
 that needed some more tuning, but other than that, the sound effects where well done. But overall, 
 Blue Dragon is amazingly an enjoyable experience that offers a long immense story that any true 
 fan of RPG from the old days or even from now, will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon while it has it's share of problems is a very enjoyable JRPG.
  
  The story in Blue Dragon is set in a medieval world terrorized by a purple skinned villain named 
 Nene. Nene has his army of robots, and machines that can devastate the kingdom with tsunami's, flying 
 probes that fire lazers, airships with powerful lazer weapons, and the fact the people live in a 
 medieval world they are no match for Nene's inventions.
  
  After Nene releases toxic clouds that kill all life and their village is forced to relocate,3 teenagers 
 Shu, Jiro and Kluke decide they have finally had enough and instead of running they are going to 
 find where Nene is and stop him. Eventually Marumaro a cute creature joins their group after Shu, Jiro 
 and Kluke saved his village by finding a cure to the illness his village people were suffering 
 from due to the toxic clouds, and Zola a tough 21 year old woman who is the leader of one of the 
 kingdom's knight squadrons joins their group too.
  
  The characters are not without personality
  -Shu is brave, easy going and is an outdoors type 
 of person.
  -Jiro is a bit arrogant and has the ''I think I know everything and I'm better than you'' personality. Shu 
 and Jiro both like Kluke, but while Jiro tries hard to impress her and crawl up her a**, Shu is more 
 focused on saving the world.
  -Kluke is a cute, kind hearted 17 year old girl who wanted to be a nurse like her mother to heal 
 sick people, but after seeing all the suffering brought by Nene, she decided to join Shu and Jiro 
 on their quest to stop Nene.
  -Marumaro may act childish but he is actually over 100 years old, his race are just a bunch of cute 
 cuddly creatures who just want to live in peace and are good hearted.
  -Zola is a tough acting female who is the leader of one of the kingdoms squadrons of knights. She 
 acts tomboyish, wearing a bandana and will take on enemies head on. During missions she will often 
 leave the group because she thinks she can manage on her own and they can work faster if they seperate.
 
  
  As the quest goes on, you leave the village and travel through many grass plains, desert, forest (some 
 living and some are dead due to the toxic clouds killing all  
 to other villages, ancient hospital, inside Nene's labs on board his airships, you travel to the kingdom 
 which has a huge castle and medieval style town, robot city, snowy mountains and you travel to the 
 centre of the earth to find Nene.
  
  On the world map, there isn't much detail, the grass plains, desert, snowy mountains just look like 
 they are colored a shade of green, yellow or white and you see the higher slopes to show higher 
 terrain (mountains)
  
  When you come to a village then you can see detail, like the forest in the background, or mountains 
 and the village inhabitants.
  
  There is no random battles, you see the enemies before you face them but they respawn an unlimited 
 amount of times so you keep can levelling up. This was a great idea of how to encounter monsters.
 
  
  The combat is turned based, instead of weapons you use Blue Dragons to do physical attacks, and there 
 is black and white magic, elemental countering system and status effects like in many RPG's.
  
  When you level up you can also level up your class, which you can switch anytime out of battle. Each 
 class has it's own strengths and weaknesses eg sword master is good with physical attacks, white 
 mage has strongest healing magic, black mage is best with magical attacks.
  
  Gamespot's reviewer said your characters lose uniqueness because you can change class at anytime, but 
 that is not true, even if you change their class each character will still be better in a certain 
 class eg if Jiro and another character were at the same level and white mage level, Jiros white 
 magic strength will be stronger. And there is certain skills only certain characters can learn, no 
 matter which class you choose for the characters. The switching the class system just allows your 
 characters to become better all round characters, so if your white mage gets Koed, you can have other 
 characters with decent healing magic, and you can have a white mage that can do decent physical 
 attacks.
  
  The bosses are too easy, on the 3rd disc the bosses toughen up a lot but are still too easy. There 
 needs to be more balance.
  
  Still your journey is very fun, by the time you get to the end, you will have explored so many grassy 
  and dead forest, snowy mountains, as well as science 
 labs, ancient hospital, the kingdom, robot city, and to the centre of the Earth.40-60 hours worth.
 
  
  
  The graphics great looking cutscenes, they are very colorful and clean.
  
  There is some beautiful FMV such as scenes with the moon lite sky, and emotional scenes, and long, entertaining 
 airship battles.
  
  The villages are small but have great detail, such as water wells, fences, animals. Inside homes you 
 see a lot of everyday objects and a lot of effort was put into detail and giving a life like appearance.
 
  
  The flowing water effects are beautiful too such as the waterfall or just a lake or pond.
  
 
  My favorite location was the flower garden at the centre of the earth that has a beautiful waterfall, big, colorful 
 butterflies flying around and beautiful flowers and you hear the birds!
  
  The dead forests look creepy with all the dead trees, spooky mist in the air, some even have purple 
 acid filled lakes due to contamination from the toxic clouds, and you even see those thick purple 
 toxic clouds engulfing some sections of the forest, and it's so thick you can't see through it, and 
 venturing into these clouds will kill you very quickly. In the dead forests you even have horrible 
 looking evil creatures pop out of the soil and try to attack you or wandering around the place (they 
 look like something you would see on a nightmare before Christmas) .
  
  The characters appearance suits their personality and Akira Toriyama did a great job.
  Shu with 
 his singlet and pony tail, Jiro's nerdy hair cut and green dorky clothes suit his ''I think I know 
 everything personality'' Kluke is beautiful in a traditional kind of way, Marumaro looks cute, cuddly 
 and innocent, Zola looks tough and tomboyish but also s e x y at the same time because of her attractive 
 figure, big bust, and revealing clothing, and long white hair, she tries to look good in the ''hey 
 im s e x y!!'' type way.
  
  The corporeal attacks look great and spectacular, but are so long and feel overdone as if they are 
 deliberately trying to outdo Final Fantasy X's Aeon overdrives.
  
  The voice acting suits the characters well, Shu sounds brave and kind, Jiro sounds annoying and self 
 righteous, Kluke has a very gentle, sweet voice, Marumaro sounds adorable, Zola sounds very serious, intense 
 and tough.
  
  Some of the dialogue can be very deep, such as the scene when Kluke and Jiro were talking about 
 their dreams and hopes and about themselves under the moon lite sky.
  
  The music suits the cute charm of the game, but during deep scenes it can really suit the feeling 
 of what is going on.
  
  The things I didn't like about the game were, bosses are too easy, sometimes it's hard to find your 
 way through dungeons and giant labs because they are so big and there is many rooms, sometimes you 
 have to search for multiple switches in many areas and they can take a long time to find and it's 
 boring. And eventually the world map stops indicating where to go next?
  
  Otherwise a great JRPG for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirtytwoshoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The creators of legendary series such as DBZ and Final Fantasy team up to create an RPG that mixes 
 the brilliant character designs of Akira Toriyama with the amazing stories and game play we've 
 seen in Final Fantasy. The results live up to the hype in almost every way, and to cut to the chase 
 this is a great game. Although there are some people out there who won't enjoy this game and it's 
 not necessarily a must have for 360 owners I feel this is a spectacular game. They basically took 
 all the good elements from past RPGs mixed them with some of the industry's most creative minds 
 ideas and to top it all off added the power of the 360, and quite frankly they've succeeded in 
 creating this year's best RPG in my opinion. That being said there's not much to hate about this 
 game; the story is a bit boring at first and I feel they could've done better, the graphics are 
 good but they rely so much on blur that you can hardly see the text, and this game doesn't really 
 bring anything special to the genre. Sure it's fun but if you've played any RPG from the last ten 
 years you'll see the exact same elements used here. But make no mistake, this is a fantastic game 
 and you'd be a fool to miss out on it because of these minor flaws. The story does start out slow 
 but over time you'll be sucked into it. The music throughout the game is amazing and just what 
 you've come to expect from Final Fantasy games, although the voice acting can be a little corny 
 during certain parts of the game. Toriyama has out done himself with the character designs, every 
 single one looks amazing. And as far as graphics go I think we can fairly say this is one of the 
 best looking RPGs to date, if not the best. The game is amazing in almost every way and you'll 
 be entertained no matter how many times you go play through it. I enjoyed it and I think a lot 
 of people will, it's definitely worth its price. I'll give it an 8.5 out of 10, although it's great 
 it has minor flaws that can be annoying but nonetheless an amazing and underrated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgermilk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Upon seeing the game in the store, and knowing that the creator of Blue Dragon was associated with 
 final fantasy a great deal, I was excited to pick up this game. However I was beyond disappointed 
 with the characters, story, shadows, and most of all the dialogue. The game features several kids 
 who live in a village who are attacked several times by a robot called a land shark and as a result, 
 discover Nene, the game's antagonist, is behind the land shark and enjoys the kids suffering. However, 
 this is the WHOLE plot of the game, there are really no twists to the story just a big boring quest 
 to rid the world of a mad man who likes torturing people. The graphics are great, but the shadows 
 are disappointing because they can only master about 8 jobs which ost are pretty useless anyway. 
 And the main charater Shu, constantly says "I won't give up" and I swore at about half way through 
 the first disc that if I heard him say it one more time I would shoot myself. Anyway, this game 
 is very mediocre and features nothing new to the genre. If this game intrigues you, I would definately 
 suggest renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsmccracken
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The following review was written by an owner of the original Xbox, one who may have been 
 suffering withdrawl due to the lack of JRPGs.
  
  Graphics: Pretty sweet, love the JRPG style.
  
  Sound: Good, gets pretty repetitive (common 
 to RPGs) , love the boss music
  
  Story: Long, satisfying, epic.
  
  Difficulty: Easy at first, ramps up but never gets too challenging, though I've never played the 
 highest difficulty level.
  
  Gameplay: Simple, but with surprising and satisfying depth. Navigating (constantly) through the 
 menus gets a bit bogged down, but again this is common with RPGs.
  
  Attempt to debunk: The most common gripe I've heard, even amongst proponents of this game, is that 
 it takes a loooong time for the game to really take off (about a whole disk) .... I personally had 
 a great time from the very beginning. However, as said in my warning at the top, I was and still 
 am really thirsty for a good JRPG, so take that with a grain of salt.
  
  Overall, I'd give this game an 8/10, definitely underated as far as the official GS review and 
 community opinion goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_motor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  If you're a huge fan of RPG's, you'll definitely get your values worth out of Blue Dragon. If you're 
 an "achievement whore," stay far away.
  
  In many ways Blue dragon reminds me of FFVII, which wasn't too bad a game. The gameplay feels similar, 
 especially in the battles. This is a turn-based RPG, but the order of attacks, and frequency depend 
 on your characters agility. Basically you'll probably have one quick fighter that doles out medium 
 damage, a really slow SOB that deals way more damage than he should, a very slow white mage, and 
 a couple other guys in the middle. It didn't matter what I gave the white mage, he will always 
 be detrimentally slow, but I guess that's how it goes.
  
  The story is fairly generic in you're a young kid who must save his village, then the world. I 
 wish they would retire this story already. When I was 14, I could've cared less about world affairs 
 and politics and would've been happy to have a girlfriend. I think most people would agree with 
 that statement. This is why my wife can't stand the game, and I must play when she's at work: P 
 I can also understand how watching the game is boring as you're going to spend a lot of time leveling 
 up your characters between actual story bits.
  
  The graphics are not too bad, but there seems to be a little bit of frame-rate issue when there 
 are a lot of dudes on the screen. The audio is pretty good, but the boss battle song got really 
 old, really fast. It was cool for the first 30 seconds, now I don't want to fight bosses because 
 I know it'll be a while until the bleeding from my ears stops...
  
  Overall, if you like long RPG's, get the game. If you're just looking to boost you're gamerscore, 
 stay away. Unless you want to play for 60 hours to get more than 10. I've played some 50+ hours 
 and only have 330, and I don't expect to get more than that. The game is fun, but not that fun 
 to hold my interest more than the estimated 100 hours it would take to get them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  The GS video review is harsh and shouldnt be believed. If you really wanna take advice of someone 
 who talks to you while looking to the side and slurring all of his words then its yours to listen 
 to.
  
  There are truths in the review and they come with the fact that the game is too god damn cutesy 
 for its own good i will never give up, we gotta try is the message sent through the game, it IS 
 too damn kiddie, the story that is. You kinda think that they have gone far too FF7 in regards 
 trying to make you feel for the characters, the problem is that with the games style strong character 
 and emotion just doesnt come through.
  
  This said., its the game we are talking about now. Its big, got loads of variation and can be quite 
 tricky at times. The GS review ways there are no weapons but if you can parallel at all then youll 
 see that the same slots are there but in a disguised form, ie your dragons. You can customise your 
 character to what you want, (the usual) dmg dealer, tank, magic and healer (ignore the gs thing 
 of over generic reference . . we are gamers . . take a bit of self discipline and only spec your 
 character on one thing, im not sure what he was getting at anyway cos its like the FFXI class spec, 
 you can only be one class at a time)
  
  The game plays well, there is marginal slow down on the battles but its alright, its not too bad. 
 The battle system is by far the best yet, no random encounters, you can see the trigger points 
 for battles and there are extra things like the monsters will fight eacher other, you can clump 
 enemys together and fight loads in series and get some boosts . . its quite good.
  
  Not too sure if there are any celestial aspects to the game which keep you on it much after the 
 initial completion, if there are then great, ive yet to discover it all.
  
  This game isnt bad for a new concept/series and if they keep the theme of the dragons but update 
 the story around it in sequels (in other words, next game wont be soo cartoony but an FF12 kind 
 of feel, a bit more serious) then there is no telling what universal identifications this game 
 can make for itself. A good game, plenty strategy and undeserving of a 6, id put it at least a 
 7.5- 9 at most. A definate buy for people who like RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  the game is make for real RPG gamers, for old-schools, not for rookies; you can not play it if you 
 want a weak story based -high graphic game;
  it is so perfect for top players, make you to play more, more, more, more and more for levels, items, and 
 super attacks;
  the story is so heavy, so many details for searching and reading; very sub-stories for more details;
 
  shadows are so attractive make you play more for more super attacks;
  you wish that you wre shu; after one or two hours of playing you can not leave the game and turn-off 
 the console; it is beyond a simple game; words like game are not fit for this miracle in gaming designs; it 
 is holy for RPG gamers and make gamer to play RPGs like a real RPG;
  you can understand that from the start  design, graphic 
 levels, game's world design and story;
  it is the best RPG on the lovely X360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is a good, solid RPG. For a fan of RPGs, Blue Dragon will feel very familiar to you 
 and it will be a pleasing experience but it doesn't offer anything special. As stated in so many 
 reviews, if you expect a Final Fantasy caliber RPG from Blue Dragon, you'll be tremendously disappointed. 
 Blue Dragon has beautiful graphics (strongest aspect of the game) , balanced combat and an efficient 
 job system. The problem is that it brings nothing new to the table. Every part about this game 
 feels like a weaker version of Final Fantasy. The story and the characters are the biggest problems. 
 The story just feels like it's dragging you along for a long 40-hour ride. It's just a generic 
 bad guy trying to conquer the world and a couple of heroes trying to stop him. Although that's 
 the plot for all RPGs, the characters are just not sufficient to make this plot exciting. The characters 
 feel extremely bland and you won't feel any emotional connection to them whatsoever. For someone 
 that's not a fan of the JRPG genre and wants to become one, do not start with Blue Dragon. This 
 game is not like the more modern, beginner friendly JRPGs but more like the traditional JRPG such 
 as the old FFs and Dragon Quests. The whole game has you grinding levels to get from point to point 
 and even though there's no random battles, you'll find you have to grind alot. For long-time JRPG 
 fans, this game will be easy and the grinding won't be anything you haven't experienced before 
 but for newcomers, this game might prove to be too frustrating to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Nice cartoon visuals/ Huge lands to exsplore/ easy controls/ nice customizations
  
  BAD- Story is weak/ annoying characters/ abit too simple/ 3 disks?.. Its only 60hrs long.
  
 
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is quite simple, great for Starters who are wanting to join the RPG craze, but the 
 game is too simple, though DragonQuest was even more simple. You play as Shu, Jrio, Kluke, Maro 
 and Zola and there Blue dragon beasts, Which is pretty much like a constant summon. You dont have 
 weapons in the game so theres no need to buy weapons to make you strounger, insted you gain EXP 
 and level up and equipped items such as rings, earings, lecklaces ect. during level ups you gain 
 new attacks and spells to help you win battles. The boss battles are awesome i loke fighting them, 
 each one acts different and go down in different ways, when battling you can increase your attacks 
 when a power meter appires on the HUD, get it closer to the Thick bar to increase your attack power 
 which helps out alot.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are nice, but realy its an illusion as the backgrounds are blurry to make it look 
 better, but other than that its just an eye trick to make it look better. Akira Torriyama was the 
 character design in the game, though not better than DragonQuest there still okay.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is good. The music in the game is awesome which i love the best, this is one 
 of the reasons i like boss battles cos they have an awesome music playing in the background.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall is a great RPG for the XBox360 and any RPGers should check it out!. Even 
 though its got many flaws and could've been better, its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  After months of anticipation, Blue Dragon has finally arrived to western territories, to feed the 
 hunger for a traditional turn-based RPG felt by so many eager Xbox 360 owners. Now that it is finally 
 here, the question remains as to whether or not it was even worth the long wait.
  
  That's somewhat of a difficult question to answer because Blue Dragon comes through on many ends 
 but simply cannot live up to many of the expectations on others. It's disappointing to realize 
 that with so much creative talent behind the production of this title, it falls miserably short 
 on some of the most crucial aspects of creating a solid and rememberable role playing game. It 
 is my personal conviction that most of its shallow essence is the result of a complete lack of 
 vision on behalf of the minds of those who conjured up this attempt at being something great.
 
  
  When I ponder over the character design alone of Blue Dragon I am reminded of a memorable episode 
 of the Simpsons. Viewer ratings are at an all time low for the Itchy and Scratchy show so the producers 
 decide what the show needs is a new character. Through this process, most of the powers that be 
 are busy "brainstorming" the newest and coolest addition to Itchy and Scratchy by taking a little 
 bit of everything that is popular, or perceived to work well, and mixing it together knowing - 
 or at least believing - that it will be a sure hit. Thus, Poochie the dog is born.
  
  This seems to be what is going on with Blue Dragon. The character design in Blue Dragon, from the 
 playable characters to enemies, are all incredibly generic and created strictly by the book. We 
 have Shu - our spiky haired protagonist, Jiro - a calm and cool clean-cut intellectual boy, Kluke 
 - the cute girl both the guys fight over, Zola - a more solemn bad girl, and of course Marumaro, 
 or Maru for short - the strange looking animal-thing with a devil helmit. All of the party characters 
 have huge round heads with big anime eyes. Since Zola is the "bad girl", she has a skull on her 
 bandana and wears considerably less clothing than the more cute, Kluke. This is just what part 
 of the problem with the design of characters is in Blue Dragon - nothing in terms of design is 
 subtle, but instead shoved in your face in an effort to make you think a certain way. Many times 
 it feels like the designers just accessories otherwise extremely stagnant and dull looking characters. 
 It doesn't stop just there with just your party either, as you will encounter some really corny 
 looking foes. From ghosts wearing glasses, and a T-rex that has piercings and punker bracelets, 
 to a male leader wearing out-of-place looking glasses and wearing a dress. Don't get me wrong; 
 I am all for diversity and experimenting, but it doesn't seem like that is what is happening here. 
 Instead, it just feels like they have taken essentially very boring characters and added these 
 touches to them which they believe will give them personality. It doesn't work at all, and it all 
 feels so very cheap. You can't help but feel that the designers literally had nothing else on their 
 creative minds so they begin taking the Poochie approach by mixing in everything they thought should 
 cover their uninspired traces.
  
  It isn't just the exterior visual appearances either, the personalities form a perfectly cliche 
 army of thoughtless characters you couldn't possibly empathize with. Shu is the wild and adventurous 
 one who acts now and thinks later. Jiro is the opposite; always being reserved and cautious, and 
 somehow always knowing the answer to puzzling circumstances you encounter. Kluke is simply calm 
 and the cute girl with all the emotions, while Zola remains the more mysterious hard-core girl. 
 Or at least, I think we are supposed to think she is hard-core, judging from her transparent presentation. 
 Maru, is the comedy of the five. He's not really human, he's not really an animal, he's just this 
 obnoxious creature who is either constantly shouting or talking in a cute voice. Maru is also fascinated 
 with Zola, which serves not only as an allusion to bestiality, but also as a dominant method of 
 perpetuating the idea that Zola is "so cool". As you can see, we have our full cast of generic 
 characters which are a lot more than simply balanced - they are the result of thoughtless collaborations 
 that attempted to do nothing other than make a game without any real vision or purpose.
  
  Which brings me to another unpleasant issue with Blue Dragon. While its characters are mediocre 
 at best, no more could be said of its dull story. There is no epic or gripping tale here - just 
 an overly generic and overly done battle between a group of youth and a bad guy bent up on taking 
 over the world. Our young adventures are persuaded to swallow these glowing blue orbs, which in 
 turn gives them magical shadows and powers. Of course, robot technology is thrown into the mix, 
 as has been done by so many RPGs in the past it would be virtually impossible to count them all. 
 I cannot begin to imagine just how many games I have played in which the story revolves around 
 some ancient wars in which the technology was superior in the past versus the modern technology. 
 The theme of Blue Dragon is so incredibly bland and played out, you have to wonder why they even 
 bothered making the game when they don't really seem to have any story or lesson they wanted to 
 tell. Typically, creativity is a way to express a theme, idea, lesson, story or concept, but this 
 is one of those times in which it meets none of the above and simply exists for the sole purpose 
 of making a game. While, there are many RPG elements here which can keep you entertained for a 
 long time - such as leveling up, mastering spells, classes and so forth - the core plot and purpose 
 of the game is, sadly, boring. Actually, I took a 1-2 month hiatus from even playing the game since 
 I got caught up in several other games at the same time which kept me more interested. To me, a 
 solid RPG should have a solid and well written story, which Blue Dragon unfortunately lacks.
  
  Visually speaking, Blue Dragon was top notch in most aspects, but several quirks really hurt 
 the appearance of an otherwise excellent looking game. Aside from the generic characters and enemies, 
 everything looks great. Almost all of the character models are very round with almost no jagged 
 edges to be seen anywhere. While playing, I couldn't help but thinking that the character models 
 were so rounded that they nearly looked cartoonish, which is great considering it was that hard 
 to notice any rough edges. A lot of, in fact most of, the textures are high resolution and quite 
 detailed. Unfortunately, a lot of the time you don't get the opportunity to notice just how detailed 
 many textures are due to an abnormal use of over-blurring. Blue Dragon has this incredibly odd 
 interpretation of distance-focus, which makes nearly everything that isn't right up to the screen 
 very blurry. And if it is too close to the screen, then it is also blurry. There is a small field 
 of clarity at all times (including battles) , but everything outside of that field is blurred to 
 an extreme. I've actually never seen anything quite like it. My guess is that this was done in 
 an attempt to keep things looking even more cartoonish by making the graphics look simplified. 
 It works to an extent, but much of the time you really wish things wouldn't be so damn blurry. 
 The other issue with the graphics is in fact much more annoying: tearing! Blue Dragon has some 
 of the worst tearing on Xbox 360 out of the more recent games. Every battle is filled with screen-tearing, 
 while many areas of the games also tear frequently, and virtually any area will tear if you swing 
 the camera around quick enough. Since the frame rate is already running fairly high, the developers 
 may have yielded better results had they dropped the frame rate ever so slightly in order to keep 
 vertical synchronization. I haven't been annoyed with screen-tearing in a long time, but Blue Dragon 
 definitely rejuvenated these frustrated feelings again. I have seen worse, but the fact that it 
 does tear so much is still a cause for concern. Many gamers may not even pay attention to it, but 
 for those of you who are also annoyed by tearing, be warned. Though, truth be told, if you put 
 aside the bland characters, the blurriness and tearing, you have some awesome looking visuals that 
 are nearly CGI quality. In that sense, Blue Dragon is a quite a graphical marvel.
  
  You would think that having Nobuo Uematsu on board would ensure a definite aural success. Well, 
 unfortunately that isn't really the case. Don't get me wrong, most of the score is pretty good, 
 but not many of the songs are as hypnotic or memorable as much of his other work is. There are 
 a few pieces that really stand out and get stuck in your head, but for the most part the music 
 is just good. I would have expected excellence, but I can truly only label a few of the pieces 
 excellent. In retrospect, the music still shines in comparison to most other RPGs, and games in 
 general. It's a pity the same cannot be said of the voice acting. Much of the dialog is not only 
 corny, but voiced in overly exaggerated tones. Getting into character is one thing, but a lot of 
 the time it feels like overdoing the character - especially Maru. He can sound cute and funny at 
 some times, but he can come off as really annoying as well. Fortunately, or unfortunately - depending 
 on how you look at it, much of the stories dialog is spoken, which is nice because you already 
 do enough reading in a game of this magnitude.
  
  Speaking of magnitude, I think it is important to recognize the fact that this game is not only 
 three-discs, but didn't necessarily need to be. My feeling is that this game could have easily 
 been fit onto a single DVD if fewer scenes were pre-rendered. Aside from the poor transitions, 
 it is quite difficult to tell when a scene you are watching is real time or pre-rendered (yes, 
 the character models look that good) . The only real indicator I had to tell the difference was 
 you know if it's real time if there is occasional tearing since the pre-rendered scenes never tear. 
 It is quite likely that Mistwalker used the three-disc format of the game as a marketing plot to 
 imply that the game was so big that it warranted it, which I don't believe is the case. I'll be 
 the first to admit, that many hard-core RPGers like myself tend to initially think that a game 
 must be huge or long when you hear it is many discs. Since almost every RPG fanatic loves a long 
 game, this can only been seen as a positive thing. So, I have a pretty good feeling that it not 
 only was unnecessary, but was done to perpetuate the idea that the game is bigger than it really 
 is. In reality, it took me no more than 35 hours to complete on my first run, which is a mere fraction 
 of some of the more huge single disc games (Oblivion for example) .
  
  Blue Dragon is a good game; not great, but good. It has a lot which is definitely capable of keeping 
 you interested, but you may grow bored of it if you have a variety of other games at your disposal. 
 It seems to be more of a time killer, than real source of enjoyment. There are certain parts that 
 will make you laugh and quite likely many others that will have you saying "give me a break". It's 
 by no means a horrible game, but should not be thought as the great RPG savior the Xbox 360 needed 
 either. While it is definitely better than Enchanted Arms, it doesn't really have much to stand 
 in comparison to on the 360 at the time of its release. If you just want a mindless RPG to get 
 absorbed in, you will find that Blue Dragon can meet your needs. However, if you are looking for 
 something a bit more deep and compelling, you will need to sit tight and wait and see what the 
 future has in store for the Xbox 360. Blue Dragon is not the godsend Microsoft had hoped or pretended 
 it to be, but it is a suitable and enjoyable adventure nonetheless.
  
  
  Gameplay: (7) Traditional RPG with nothing ground-breaking to offer. 30-40 hour adventure, with 
 lots of side quests, secrets and extra bosses as well. Could have benefited from some ingenuity.
 
  
  Graphics: (8) While blandly designed, the character models are superbly rounded with jagged edges 
 almost nonexistent. It's only a shame that the game has a real annoying blurriness issue and suffers 
 from near-constant tearing
  
  Sound: (8) While Nobuo Uematsu delivers, it's not by any means his best work. Some of the tunes 
 are catchy, but others are just slightly above average. The voice acting is neither great, nor 
 horrible.
  
  Lasting appeal: (7) A lengthy adventure spanning three discs that could have been one. Lots of 
 side quests and mega-bosses to go back and complete for extra achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_wh0re
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  i was hooked from the very beginning. the stories are beautiful with great characters. they also 
 swear quite a bit! naughty little b******s!
  
  im not gonna go into whats its about and stuff, just look at the review! 
  took me about 55 hours 
 to finish... i know.. im slow!
  but with so many different skills for your shadows to learn.. i wanted to make each one as good 
 as they can be! this is a real plus for me in a game as i like a mixture of attacks and spells! 
 you can learn black magic, white magic, sword master, assasin, monk, barrier magic and so on...
  its quite tactful aswell, for example, a character with low hp or defense, you could place in the 
 back row to lower the damage taken, and also build their skill on barrier magic or support magic 
 to protect your party and enhance abilities.
  
  the only bad thing i would say about this game is that most of the time, the battles are too easy 
 so its not really a challenge, but maybe thats because i levelled up so much!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spatan11711
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Blue dragon is a very fun game but you may feel you have played this game before as it is like 
 other RPG games. It has a very strong but yet a slow battling system which may put some people 
 of this game. The voice acting in this game is very good especially how you can use English, French 
 and Japanese. The graphics are very colourful unlike a lot of next generation games which are dull. 
 The game has 5 characters which are unique and you grow to like. It is a long RPG game which if 
 you train will take you over 50 hours. If you are into turn based RPG's i recommend this game to 
 you.
  
  Graphics: 7
  Game play: 10
  Lifespan: 8
  Sound: 8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deavincalhoun
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I had waited a full year for blue dragon but then my 360 broke and i was going to buy a ps3 im 
 so happy i didnt or else i couldnt play this amazing game blue dragon. The characters are great, 
 the graphics are easy on the eyes and theier really beatiful and look pixar qaulity. Ireally love 
 the games music. nobuo did an awesome job. The story is really good as well dont listen to the 
 haters. another thing is i just was addicted to this game. but then again im addicted to every 
 jrpg for that matter. buy this game because if you dont im coming to get you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAKAZI_jp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Mistwalker's Blue Dragon seemed like enough of an interesting game. The combat was okay, the characters' 
 personalities weren't bland, and the graphics were smooth. That day, when I took it out of its 
 case and popped it in, I was quite disappointed.
  
  The story isn't incredibly engaging, and te enemies were easy to beat. The Corporeal attack kills 
 every enemy on the field. It made the whole thing way too easy.
  
  Blue Dragon is an okay game. If you're a real fantasy buff, and you don't care if it's unoriginal, 
 then I recommend this game. However, if you're looking for something new, i suggest you stay away 
 from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I had this game circled for many months, maybe even close to a year. I thought it would be the 
 first great RPG for the 360. Unfortunately, I was wrong.
  Now, Blue Dragon is by no means a terrible game. Graphics are sharp and pretty. But while the backgrounds 
 look good, the cartoony characters seem out of place in such a realistic setting. The music and 
 sound is totally forgettable, however. The game plays well, with a quick pace to fighting. And 
 Blue Dragon is long, even for an RPG.
  So where does Blue Dragon really fail? The story. Let me further explain: the story itself is OK, 
 but it's the delivery of the story that sucks. It's childish, irritating, and just plain stupid 
 at times. Also, character development just doesn't happen in Blue Dragon. What you see with these 
 characters is what you get. 
  The one thing I really like about Blue Dragon is the dragons themselves. They are cool, their animations 
 are smooth, and it's a lot of fun to attack with them. It keeps combat fresh for a while, but about 
 halfway through the game I lost interest.
  To summarize, Blue Dragon is a good game that does nothing to invigorate the RPG formula. It could 
 have been the first great next-gen experience for RPG gamers. Instead, it's just another descent 
 game in the croud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_uk
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, hopes that were quickly dashed within an hour of starting it up 
 for the first time. The "story" can basically be summed up as "kids take on man who's being evil 
 for no reason whatsoever other than he want to be evil", there's no more to it than that. 
  
  The games main character is unbelievably dislikable so much so that the player could be forgiven 
 for starting to cheer the bad guys on, other characters are not much better and range from annoying 
 to plain two dimensional. Every time the main character cries "I wont give up!!" I want to rip 
 his head off. 
  
  I get the impression the developers of this game have watched people playing RPG's and made a list 
 of what they think should be in one, unfortunately they missed the importance of likable characters 
 and a decent story. 
  
  Graphically it looks nice and the enemies are very well designed showing that at least someone 
 on the team had some imagination. 
  
  All in all a poor game that is best left on the shelf or in the bargain bin where it's more likely 
 to be found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese_123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Blue dragon is a JRPG and a good one at that, the graphics are nice and cell shaded and the combat 
 system isn't half bad either, and its on 3 DVD's. it's HUGE. The plot might be similair to you 
 but 3 teenagers (bit they look like kids) decide to take on the land shark that has terriosed the 
 village you live in for ages. It ends up that a yoda type looking character set it loose because 
 he wanted to hear the screams. Our three heroes discover three orbs which they decide to swallow 
 (oddly enough) and their shadows turn into various monsters. the characters shadows can be alot 
 of different classes from sword masters to monks and so on and so forth. The trouble with this 
 game is the really anooying voices on some of the characters, and smug looking Jiro but apart from 
 that its a VERy good game. But some people do hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zexcel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all I have to say Its Been a while for me in the world JRPGs. The last few Major tiles 
 I played were years ago and included the Masterpiece Final Fantasy 7, Final Fantasy 8, Final Fantasy 
 9 (surprise, surprise) and some others that have disappeared into the depths of a forgetful mind. 
 My how things have changed since then! the J on the JRPG acronym for starters is a pain for me 
 to get used to (Before games like Oblivion entered the world stage Japan made the only Role Playing 
 Games so thats just what they were. RPGS.) and If your wondering weather Ive been on another 
 planet for the last 10 years, the answer is probably a resounding YES. After finishing FF7 (and 
 destroying all the weapons) I felt the whole turn based JRPG idea was spent and there could never 
 be another game that would capture my heart and soul quite like the incredible story I had just 
 played through. Needless to say, I strayed into other areas of gaming and never looked back. Years 
 passed  and boredom set in. Finally, after saying goodbye to World of Warcraft and its repetitive 
 game play and nerd infested shores and finding Twilight Princess far to easy and the plot outright 
 mush, I was once again was ready for a purposeful adventure and something a little different. 
 To get straight to the point, Blue Dragon is actually a Fantastic game in its own right and Im 
 so glad I own an Xbox 360. The Graphics are Gorgeous, the game mechanics are wonderfully smooth 
 to operate and easy to understand and The Music is a true delight to listen to. So whats wrong 
 with it? Well, Im not really sure. The main issue for a lot of reviewers has been a lack of in-depth 
 story. To be Honest I cant help but think that the story was softened (compared to the likes 
 of Final Fantasy 7) because the 360 is American and is made up of Predominately American Gamers 
 who wouldnt appreciate a mind bending experience. Personally Ive found the story intriguing and 
 very enjoyable. Yes its a little slow to get going but I havent really noticed it and thats 
 probably because I was hooked since the fist half an hour. To sum up my feelings about this game, 
 Blue Dragon has been the next JRPG to some how capture my heart and soul, even if it is just a 
 gentle grip. Granted if you buy a new JRPG every month and have finished every Final Fantasy in 
 succession without a break Blue Dragon probably wont do it for you. If however you have learned 
 to pace yourself and treat your JRPGs like a fine wine (Only indulge occasionally) then Blue Dragon 
 will draw you in and offer you a fantastic gaming experience and a Journey worth embarking on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ichigo22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Blue dragon is brilliant! it has great music, great graphics, and gameplay that does a wonderful 
 job of feeling both familiar and fresh at the same time. blue dragon has a colorful cast of characters, 
 each with their own unique personality. the artwork by Akira Toriyama is wonderful and when combined 
 with the great music in the game done by Nobuo Uematsu really makes the world of blue dragon that 
 much more interesting to explore. the battle system may be turn based but it's part of what makes 
 blue dragon feel familiar and fresh at the same time. unlike other role playing games you don't 
 need to waste money on buying new weapons each time you get to a new town, because your weapons 
 are your shadows. the shadows can be one out of nine different classes that level up with the more 
 shadow points you get. of course the fun part of the class system is that as your class rank increases 
 you gain new abilities and then switch to a different class and equip the abilities you gained 
 from any other class. therefore a black magic user could also use white magic or even support magic 
 all at the same time. plus some of the skills you learn as your class rank increases can be used 
 on the field. another fun thing about blue dragon is that it has no random battles at all. overall 
 blue dragon is a wonderful game that will make you want to play it long after you've finished it 
 and even though it's not bringing anything new to the table it does a pretty good job of standing 
 up to blue dragon creator Hironobu Sakaguchi's most notable creation, final fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STARS_Splinter
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Its been a while since a JRPG has been released that carried with it such pedigree. Hironobu Sakaguchi, 
 acclaimed creator and director of the Final Fantasy series, Chrono Trigger, and a host of other 
 landmark games, teaming up with renowned character artist Akira Toriyama of Dragon Ball fame and 
 legendary composer Nobuo Uematsu. Its some pedigree, so youd expect the brainchild of the big 
 three to be something rather special, wouldnt you?
  
  Well, you may be disappointed, then. Blue Dragon, for all of its merits, just isnt that game. 
 Its not a JRPG evolution. Its not a storytelling masterpiece. Its not a game that will stay in 
 your memory for years to come, or make you think about events in the wider world. But it is very 
 good fun.
  
  Lets start at the beginning. Blue Dragon follows the story of five young people, mostly children 
 from a small village that comes under attack by a creature called a Land Shark. In trying to stop 
 the creature, Shu, Jiro, and their friend Kluke unwittingly discover that its actually a machine, 
 made by a strange, wizened creature called Nene. The kids soon gain the power of shadow creatures, 
 which take the form of mighty beasts springing from the characters shadows  including the Blue 
 Dragon of the title- which are capable of powerful feats and magic. Realising that Nene is responsible 
 not just for the problems of their village, but of other towns across the world, the heroes set 
 out to put a stop to the villainous wizard. Along the way, the kids from the village meet a strange 
 bat-creature called Marumaro, and a sharp-witted assassin called Zola. Theyre not the most original 
 characters the world has ever seen, and nor is the story the strongest youve ever taken part in, 
 but all of the characters  even the squeaky-voiced Marumaro- are likeable and appealing, and the 
 game presents itself well enough that you do want to see what happens in the story.
  
  Gameplay follows the traditional style of JRPGs as well; you have a world map, where you can see 
 little towns and villages represented, field screens, which are the towns, villages and dungeons 
 of the game, and battle sequences where you... yknow... battle. Blue Dragon does distinguish itself 
 at least by representing the enemies that you can fight on both the field screen and world map, 
 and in an interesting mechanic, you can actually choose to fight as many of them at once as you 
 wish, taking on your enemies in sequence. Some enemies also have rivalries with other creatures, 
 and you can get them to fight one another in the games interesting Monster Fight. The battles themselves 
 are a strictly turn-based affair, with a bar across the top of the screen indicating the turn sequence 
 and with magic and attacks straight from a Final Fantasy game- not surprising considering the guy 
 who devised it. Interestingly, you can opt to charge up most of your attacks, which makes them 
 more powerful but will affect your place in the turn sequence. This gives an interesting tactical 
 addition- do you cast that healing spell now, and cure a small amount of hit points, or do you 
 charge it up to heal more- but risk a character dying before you can cast it? Your characters dont 
 actually gain experience themselves, either- instead its your characters Shadows that grow stronger 
 throughout the game. There are various classes that you can switch between to learn their assorted 
 skills, which can then be combined in any way you like for use in battle. This is pretty fun, as 
 you can specialise your characters in some areas but also let them have access to, say, a few White 
 magic spells for healing, a few defence increasing Guardian abilities, and so on. Fortunately, 
 the battles arent generally too difficult, so the games not usually a great challenge, and you 
 can safely avoid some of the monster encounters if you wish without fear that the next boss will 
 be too difficult. That said, the game does have its trickier moments, and a couple of the diversionary 
 mini games can be quite challenging.
  
  Visually, the game looks lovely. Character models are well crafted and look great, and the backgrounds 
 are lavish and detailed affairs that have a lot of nice touches. Battle sequences are no exception, 
 with the Shadows looking really great and the spell effects are beautiful. Unfortunately, the framerate 
 often struggles to keep up with whats going on, but this doesnt detract too much and is forgiveable 
 when the game has such lush visuals. Sound wise, youre in for an equal delight. Uematsus score 
 lacks the complexity of some of the Final Fantasy soundtracks, but its full of hum-along tunes 
 and beats that will stick in your head for quite a while, and stands out as some of his better 
 music work for me, although it has its low moments. The voice acting is generally good, with no 
 performances standing out as particularly good or particularly poor, either. You can have the game 
 in its original Japanese as well, which really helps matters.
  
  Overall, I found Blue Dragon to be a thoroughly entertaining game. Its some of the most fun Ive 
 had from an RPG for quite some time, and I never felt that getting through the game was a chore. 
 The great presentation doesnt hurt, although some might be put off by the old-school styling and 
 the underwhelming story. Still, its a lengthy experience, clocking in at some 50-60 hours for 
 an average play through, and although it loses its pace a little towards the end it generally stays 
 fun throughout. Theres a good deal of optional content, most of which is marked with some of the 
 games difficult to unlock achievements- dont expect a couple of hundred gamerscore points just 
 for getting through the game; Blue Dragon will make you work for them. But gamerscore aside, completing 
 Blue Dragon is its own reward, and whilst it might not go down in the annals of the greatest computer 
 roleplaying games, it deserves a place in the hearts of those who are after an entertaining experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepiroth6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Written by Sakaguchi, Blue Dragons plot is told in a simplistic, yet fulfilling fashion. The story 
 does not revolve around a love plot (can you say Final Fantasy VIII?) nor does it relate to some 
 abusive business company seeking to squeeze natural life to feed its greed (Final Fantasy VII) . 
 Also theres no political strife between two nations (Final Fantasy XII) . Instead, the story revolves 
 around a group of friends who seek to protect the world they live in. The antagonist is named Nene, 
 who looks kinda like Star Wars Yoda. Not only does he seek power, he also wants to revive magic, 
 open some ancient secrets and reshape the world at the expense of lives.
  
  As Blue Dragon is told through the viewpoints of the main characters (the first three are teenagers, 
 not children despite their look) , character development is pretty deep and by the time you reach 
 the 2nd disc (this game has three DVDs) , youll be able to relate with the characters and even 
 care about them. The human touch of the script is well supported by the nice voice acting. Lets 
 not forget that touches of humor, drama and even a little romance spice up the narrative without 
 messing the epic story.
  
  
  Gameplay-wise, Blue Dragon is a turn-based RPG filled with the usual commands like attacking, magic, 
 formation and item use. If you think that the turn-based nature of the game would make it play 
 sluggishly, you are wrong. In fact, the engine is pretty fast-paced and selecting actions, magic 
 spells (based on the elements) and items can be easily done. You can fight many battles is arguably 
 lesser time compared to other RPGs. Oh yeah, each character has his/her own magical shadow, which 
 helps them fight enemies along the way. Early on, Shu, Jiro and Kluke themselves do the action 
 when fighting but once they get the shadows, they dont need to run up close to the enemy to attack 
 as the shadow does it for them with great reach and power. Remember those Materia Break battle 
 options in Final Fantasy VII (once your character receives a certain amount of damage, he/she/it 
 would be able to execute a spectacular attack) ? That feature is present in Blue Dragon, and its 
 called the Corporeal. It comes in rather late in the game but it truly is worth waiting for. Once 
 a Corporeal is executed, you will witness a spectacular display of animation and special effects 
 that really pushed the Xbox 360s processing power. The sequences looked like pre-rendered movies 
 but in reality they are executed in real time. Exploring the world is almost hassle-free. There 
 are no random battles here, which is a great relief. Instead, you will see images of individual 
 monsters roaming around the map or area, and you have the freedom to choose whether to fight or 
 avoid them. Though they look individual, they normally represent groups. If you engage them from 
 behind, the battle will begin with a first-strike advantage for your party. And if you want to 
 level up your party, you can engage multiple groups of enemies by using the Ring Tool on the map. 
 For example, there are three monster images that are caught within the ring, and if you press the 
 battle option, a battle will begin with the first of three monster groups to fight with. As soon 
 as that group is finished, another one will come in. In essence, getting multiple enemies within 
 the ring would make a longer-lasting battle, not to mention a chance to gain much higher experience 
 points and treasure. Since the battle engine is fast-paced, the battles never dragged. As you make 
 your way through the game, you will encounter a wide variety of monsters, some of which could surprise 
 you. This makes battles feel more lively and in my experience, there never was a boring or dragging 
 moment. I almost forgot, in this game you get to build your party up to as many as five members. 
 Thats right, five members! Fighting a battle using five members can add great variety to the action, 
 yet at the same time it never gets confusing. By comparison, Final Fantasy VII allowed only up 
 to three party members for exploration and battle. Aside from the constant battle play, Mistwalker 
 added some nice gameplay segments that will give gamers a much needed break. For instance, there 
 are these first-person shooting sequences wherein youll be controlling the turret of your airship-like 
 vehicle, shooting at your flying enemies. There are also a few quick-time events that will remind 
 you so much of Resident Evil 4. While exploring, there are many objects that are interactive. From 
 rocks to plants to cabinets and wagons, youll find many various things like gold, medicine and 
 even equipment. In short, be sure to check out these things as you explore. Not only that, around 
 the world there are multiple treasure chests waiting to be opened. Some of them are covered with 
 colored barriers, which you can only open later once you have the items needed to remove them. 
 Another thing, talking with NPCs (non-playable characters) is fun as you learn some tales, advices, 
 tips and the like. If try talking with the locals of a kingdom in the game, youll really learn 
 a lot of things!
  
  
  As with other RPGs, Blue Dragon also has side quests that will handsomely reward you with very 
 useful items. There will be many bosses (unrelated to the main quest) that you will find quite 
 challenging to beat. One particular side quest leads you to a paradise-like location where there 
 lots of monsters that will reward you a lot of experience points. Customizing your characters here 
 is similar to what weve seen in Final Fantasy. In this game, there is this Accessory system wherein 
 you can choose what type of bracelet, necklace, earring and shoes your character could wear, each 
 with specific effects on the attributes. Customizing magic spells and skills is also evident. You 
 can train your character to be proficient with black magic, another character with swordmaster, 
 another with white magic, another with generalist magic and so on. Aside from character attributes, 
 there are also level-ups for magic use and the higher you go, the more powerful spells you gain. 
 Aside from the typical black and white magic skills, I recommend training each character with the 
 generalist skill as it enables them to carry more accessories. If you love graphics, Blue Dragon 
 will impress you big time. Using anime-like 3-D characters, thanks to the work of Akira Toriyama, 
 the games graphics easily rivals what we have seen in movies such as Toy Story and Shrek. The 
 characters animate very lively and their human expressions are nice to see. There are a few quirky 
 expressions here and there, but they never get overwhelmingly annoying compared to other RPGs. 
 Blue Dragon takes great advantage of the 360s processing power when it comes to textures, lighting 
 effects, animation and more. With its unique design, the whole world in the game looks very detailed 
 right from the start, and it only gets more detailed later. Dont expect to see Gears of War-style 
 textures or Oblivion-like environments. Blue Dragon features a different art style, one that appeals 
 to people who like anime (think Hayao Miyazakis Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, or Toiryamas 
 own Dragon Ball Z) or those CGI Hollywood blockbusters. Blue Dragons world has a cute appeal to 
 it. Let me add that the water effects here are astounding to watch, and if you thought youll only 
 see them on lakes or waterfalls, wait until you see the ocean! For the storytelling, the game uses 
 both in-game and pre-rendered cut scenes. And you know what? The difference in quality between 
 real-time and pre-rendered is almost identical and the transition between them is seamless. Remember 
 how different your characters looked in real-time and in pre-rendered cut scenes in Final Fantasy 
 VII and VIII? Blue Dragon does not have the graphical imbalances of those games, which was expected 
 since the Xbox 360s resources are highly advanced, enabling Sakaguchi and his team to maintain 
 the graphical quality needed. For the most part, the cut scenes are rendered in real-time and wow, 
 they look great and make me proud of my console!
  
  As far as the audio goes, I must say that Nobuo Uematsus music really gave the games presentation 
 a lot of life, much like John Williams providing the expressions to Star Wars and Indiana Jones 
 film series. There is a nice mix of orchestrated tunes, rock music and even techno tunes, not to 
 mention some Final Fantasy sound-a-likes. The weakest link however is the one particular rock song 
 that gets played in almost every boss (or sub-boss) battle. Its just annoying to hear this singer 
 going This is the beginning with not-so-smooth English. What can I say about the catchy Blue 
 Dragon theme music? Its wonderful to listen to and each time it played, I turned up the volume. 
 As mentioned earlier, the voice acting is dramatic enough and you can feel the emotions of the 
 characters. Conclusion
  With over a years worth of development combined with the talents of great Japanese creators, Blue 
 Dragon is truly an epic role-playing game that will entertain you, touch you and leave you amazed. 
 It is very clear that Microsofts alliance with Sakaguchi-san was the right move after all and 
 considering the greatness of this game, the absences Square Enixs Final Fantasy (main games specifically) 
 or Dragon Quest games on the 360 does not really hurt anymore. As long as they work with Sakaguchi, 
 Microsoft itself can become an RPG-publishing powerhouse. Blue Dragon might as well be their answer 
 to Square-Enixs Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest. With such an excellent game, I think it would be 
 wise to build this one up into a franchise. Blue Dragon by the way, brought back to me that long 
 lost sense of great RPG adventuring as well as fond memories of Final Fantasy IV, V and VI (two 
 of them directed by Sakaguchi) . The adventure in this game is simply unforgettable backed with 
 engaging storytelling, plus the characters are very believable. You got a brave lad in Shu, a concerned 
 guy named Jiro, a disturbed young lady named Kluke and more! Unlike certain popular RPGs, Blue 
 Dragon has a strong fantasy setting that never gets overwhelmed by technological and sci-fi elements. 
 Last but not least, as you discover more of the world and its inhabitants, you will really feel 
 their pulse and concern regarding Nenes threat against them. The believability of Blue Dragons 
 story is solid!
  
  I highly recommend Blue Dragon to each and every gamer reading this. Dont hesitate, do it! Blue 
 Dragon is easily one of the best next-gen games available as well as one of the greatest RPGs of 
 all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotpoultry
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I had waited for this game for a really long time, and now that I've beaten it I can say that this 
 game is no different than any other below-average RPG. The game play is good, with a good combat 
 system that uses charges to add strategy to battles and a unique system of initiating battles with 
 many battles with multiple enemy parties. All of this means nothing though with a story as bad 
 as this game's. It is about 3 kids who start an adventure to stop a guy who does evil things just 
 for the heck of it, that's right no motivation, and they meet other people along the way. The main 
 character Shu is a complete loser that is a giant joke, with terrible voice acting and the worst 
 catch phrase ever, I won't give up . By the end of this game, you will want to punch him so bad 
 it'll hurt. It's clear this was a kid game, as it was very easy to beat and the plot two-dimensional. 
 This is not to say there are not good aspects, with graphics that make you feel as if you were 
 in a Pixar movie and great sound design, but I can not recommend this for its easy difficulty and 
 terrible story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenoapollyon
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot has the review down pretty well. There is nothing about this game that will really stick 
 with you when you put it down, and nothing that will really allow this game to stand out of the 
 pack. There is nothing broken, it just does not live up to expectations or offer anything really 
 new with gameplay.
  
  The visuals are nice, but not impressive. You will often find yourself looking at something that 
 is uninteresting, open, and empty.
  
  The gameplay itself can be enjoyable, but there is a real lack of diversity in the characters. 
 The battle sequences have a slightly different feel to them than previous games, but these get 
 dull very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  So far Blue Dragon has been a great experience. The battle system is great, the story is good, 
 and the player customization is awesome. This is game is a must buy for any RPG player who loves 
 the Final Fantasy experince. but dont get me wrong, this game does need some work. The way the 
 shawdow dragons fight could be alittle bit better, such as the animation, for example: Shou using 
 the Wind Sword. All it shows is the dragon throwing a wind ball and looks nothing like a sword. 
 When I first saw that move I pictured the Dragon actually forming a wind sword and the Cutting 
 down the enemy with fury and all-out aggression. So stuff like that they need to get better, but 
 overall a pretty good game.
  
  P. S: Just started Playing
  
  
  
  fdsfdf fds f fd d fd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d a a a a a a d er r er e re r r e re r e rerr rer 
 erer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fire41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Yeah its me, Shadow, i bought this game and quite frankly, im so far satisfied with it.
  the graphics are amazing.
  the gameplay if fun.
  the characters are great looking.
  what 
 more could you want?
  it revolves around weird spheres your characters ate that made their shadows living magical weapons 
 of mass destruction, neat huh?
  love it or love it, remember this, if its bad, i'd know, and this game isn't bad.
  oh! i forgot 
 to mention!
  there are many classes for your characters' shadows, like Swordsmen or Black Mage.
  the battle 
 is like Final Fantasy in some ways.
  the character design is from the same guy who made Dragon Ball Z, Dragon Ball, and Dragon Ball 
 GT.
  well then, Shadow out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtStrungOut
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Old school gamers such as myself have had a large amount of RPG gameplay. Back in the late 80's 
 - early 90's, alot of the games that us men played were full of cutesy characters and cheesy plots. 
 So all these negatives that some gamers complain about aren't much of a problem to me mainly because 
 I am open to any form of gameplay as long as it is good. Now that that's out of the way, let's 
 talk about how great this game is. The characters are not very deep but they do have a 8-bit feel 
 to them (which is a good thing) and the story is basic but likable. The environments are amazing 
 and massive. There aren't many traditional RPG's with a scope this size. The Vistas are very beautiful 
 and expansive while the towns have a warm, homey feel to them while the dungeons are not as bad 
 as people make them out to be. They are basic but easy to get around. The graphics are nice and 
 really feel Old School. They aren't going to win any awards but what they do, they do right. Toriyama 
 really knows how to design characters. The music is great as well. It feels very Pre-FF9 - ish. 
 It almost seems as if, in one particular scenario, that it has a FF7 remix. Uematsu has done a 
 good job bringing back the old - school style he was well - known for. Although Chrono Trigger 
 had the best ST he made, this one is amazing. Besides, Uematsu basically set himself up when he 
 wrote the ST for CT, It's unbeatable. Overall, this is a game that will obviously appeal only to 
 the Old-School. New-Age gamers (which make up most of the 360's audience) aren't going to like 
 this at all. But, if you have been playing games since the days of the NES, then do yourself a 
 favor and pick this up. It's a game that reassures all of us that Old-School isn't dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  My last 2 reviews (Halo3 and Gears of War) have had bad response and have gotten me loads of hate 
 mail for expressing my opinion, in fact 1 was removed lol. Anyway, Blue Dragon is Awesome, and 
 this is why: GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in blue dragon are great, nice colorful environments and characters with sweet looking 
 enemies, cut scenes and Shadow Dragons. Yeah, ok so they did have to have fade in shadows, i dont 
 care, overall it looks sweet, and i haven't seen any major slow downs, i think Game spot totally 
 exaggerated.
  
  SOUND
  
  Considering the game is Japanese, the dubbed voices are not going to be great, but overall, they 
 are pretty good. Apart from MaruMaro who is a pain in the rear. You can also have English subtitles 
 and Jap voices which is cool, if you like thing. The music is ok, but the boss music is in fact 
 repetitive and rather bad. GAMEPLAY
  
  Its a RPG. You kill things. But unlike FF, you dont just get into random encounters, you can tactically 
 pick what to attack, and in what way to attack it before you even get into a fight. You can ignore 
 the fights if you want, or you can even use a field skill like Barrier to walk around and destroy 
 enemies you touch, this gives you no EXP but it does give you SP which lvls up your shadows class 
 rank, which lets you use new skills etc. The fights them selves look amazing and are really fun 
 to do. Everything has a different way of killing them, for example a Armoured Centaur is almost 
 immune to all attacks and magic. But it a Wind magic could knock him over leaving him defenseless. 
 Another nice thing is the RING. Whilst on the world map, or exploring dungeons etc. You can bring 
 up the ring to select and attack 1-infinte amount of enemy groups which can lead to 2 things: HUGE 
 battles that give you boosts in HP, MP, ATK or DEF. Or it can lead to a monster fight. A Monster 
 fight is where to rival types of enemies will kill, weaken or steal armor from each other. This 
 generally makes the fighting easier e. g. A armored lizard with a shield is attacked by a rival 
 and it rips open its armor and destroys its shield. Now the once powerful lizard is now puny and 
 easily disposed of. However some will just kill the other out right if the other is its prey/food. 
 As you can see, its rather in depth.
  
  I dont understand what GS said about the first disk being boring (could have been IGN) because i 
 thought it was pretty intense. The 2 hours of it are fighting a War on this huge battle ship, its 
 cool. It doesn't really give much of the story away, so it keeps you guessing until it is revealed. 
 Unlike some RPG's where you are limited to only 3 characters in a battle at a time (FFXII) , in 
 Blue Dragon you always use every character and can change there formations to keep casters protected 
 by warriors, monks and assassins.
  
  Then Shadow system is also pretty cool. Every few levels you can pick a new class that you can 
 choose to learn at any point in your adventure. This lets you pick which charatcers are what, and 
 how YOU want to play the game. For example, you could have Black Magic using Support mage. This 
 mixes pure offense with ailment damage. Or a White Magic using Barrier mage for protection and 
 healing. This way you can have any combo of characters for your playing style which means everyones 
 play through will be different. OVERALL
  
  Overall i love Blue Dragon. And if my memory is correct it is done by the guys who done Chrono 
 Trigger and same guy who done Final Fantasy. So you can almost be certain you will play a great 
 RPG. The first good X box game iv played so far. Next to Forza 2. This could also be the start 
 of a great RPG genre for the X Box as the original X box didn't have many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1980
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this. Blue Dragon is by no means a bad game as most of you have heard. 
 The pacing and story are unlikely to resonate with most audiences the way more popular RPGs (Like 
 the Final Fantasy Series) do, but I think that has alot to do with familiarity more than anything 
 else. Blue Dragon is a traditional, old-fashioned turn based RPG and at the same time somewhat 
 unique because the Xbox 360 library is so thin in this genre. If you've been waiting and pining 
 for a good JRPG on a Microsoft console, your prayers have been answered. The character design in 
 Blue Dragon looks just like everything else Akira Toriyama (Famed creator of the Dragon Ball series 
 and character designer for the Dragon Warrior games) has done and the turn-based combat is the 
 same style of action you've been playing for years. The story opens with Shu, Jiro, and Kluke who 
 quickly become gifted with a magical power. Along the way, they're joined by a cat-like creature 
 and a rogue female fighter to do battle against a great evil. Very familiar storyline for most 
 RPG fans but really it's not all that bad.
  
  When combat begins, your team lines up against a party of enemies and takes turns attacking with 
 the help of magical shadows. For RPG fans who favor the likes of the Elder Scrolls series, Blue 
 Dragon's mostly linear combat will feel tedious and limited. Others will enjoy the laid back nature. 
 In the end, the combat is exactly what you would expect out of a game like this. But it's what 
 goes on outside of battle where Blue Dragon shines.
  
  First, there is the skill system. Each shadow can be assigned to one of nine classes that range 
 from the traditional white magic to the also-traditional monk, each of which can be leveled up 
 individually. As you progress through the game, the number of classes each character has access 
 to expands as does the number of unlocked skills. Things get fun when you realize you can assign 
 skills related to one class to your shadow even after switching to a different class. With enough 
 skills unlocked, you can mix and match the best parts of each class to boost your effectiveness 
 in battle. The skill system also plays into another cool part of Blue Dragon. Random encounters 
 don't exist here, removing one of the frustrations that fans of JRPGs have had for years. You will 
 see enemies roaming the environment, allowing you to choose whether or not you want to fight. Taking 
 things one step further field skills have been added to be used outside of combat and to engage 
 multiple wandering enemies at once. One type of skill allows you to stun enemies, opening up the 
 chance for a surprise attack! Another let's you wipe out lower level enemies entirely without even 
 fighting them! But if you do want to fight enemies, you can take on multiple sets at a time rather 
 than entering and exiting battle over and over again. This is done by pulling the right trigger 
 to pause time and bring out a ring. All enemies within this radius can be fought in a row, with 
 experience and status bonuses along the way. Get two baddies that don't like each other in the 
 ring and you can even make them fight each other! As for length wise Blue Dragon is so extensive 
 it can easily be more than a 50-hour game experience. The presentation of character development, 
 skill acquisition, and interesting side quests really bulk up the game and give you so much more 
 to do and think about besides beating an enemy and rushing to the next story point. Things take 
 awhile to get going within the story and even after 10 hours of play time you still feel like you're 
 only getting to know the basics but by the end of the third disc, the world of Blue Dragon opens 
 up dramatically. High-level enemies can be found, new towns and islands become available to explore, 
 and a good number of previously inaccessible chests holding goodies present enough new and fun 
 reasons to delay the inevitable end of the game. Even the Corporeal attacks (Blue Dragon's version 
 of summon spells) don't appear until this portion of the game. While the first disc may seem like 
 a bore, things open up and more challenges are offered, and Blue Dragon becomes very enjoyable. 
 Invest the time and you'll find a game worth playing to its conclusion.
  
  The voiceover work and music are nothing much to write home about and while they don't detract 
 from the game, they also don't add anything substantial.
  
  Blue Dragon got alot of flack for being three discs. The multiple DVD necessity comes from the 
 boatloads of FMV sequences packed into Blue Dragon. Switching discs every ten hours or so isn't 
 really a big deal and the visual quality of these cutscenes is quite high, making these one of 
 the more attractive parts of the title. Even if the story that goes with the visuals isn't all 
 that engaging, you'll likely find yourself paying attention just to look at the crisp imagery. 
 Speaking of crisp imagery. Blue Dragon is a great-looking game. The party members aren't particularly 
 original in design, but the enemies are varied and goofy enough to be entertaining, and thankfully 
 the ingame graphics were also given the same level of polish. If you liked traditonal fantasy grounded 
 RPG games like Final Fantasy IX or Dragon Quest VIII, you'll like Blue Dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Uematsu, Toriyama, and Sakaguchi all on the same team is going to garner a lot of high expectations 
 from a lot of gamers who recognize those names. The game is still good /w its faults, but they 
 can be easily overlooked. ----GRAPHICS: They're okay. There tends to be too much usage of the blur 
 effect. The characters are well designed, but I think they could've been given a more mature look. 
 I thought the main characters were in the age range of 10-14 until I read the manual. ----SOUND: 
 The music is decent. A few good tracks that'll have you humming them for a few days, then there 
 are those that are forgettable, and then you have that one awful ear ache inducing boss theme. 
 Overall, soundtrack is okay, but most would expect more from Uematsu. ----GAMEPLAY: I found the 
 battle system to be a lot of fun. Although the game was really easy up until the third disc. I 
 suggest starting this game on Hard especially avid JRPG gamers. The magic casting, special moves, 
 and even regular attacks are showy, but you won't grow tired of em. They are nice to watch. The 
 story isn't anything that you'll want to come back to this game for, but the battle system is still 
 a lot of fun and somewhat addictive. The mini games are a cool distraction as well. ----Bottom 
 line: Start this game on Hard. Get rid of the high expectations, don't expect much, and you'll 
 enjoy the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachbob1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed to see so many luke warm reviews for Blue Dragon. It seems to me alot of these peeps 
 where expecting something revolutunary or ground breaking from Blue Dragon which it is not. Nothing 
 in Blue Dragon we haven't seen before from a Jrpg.
  That being said it wasn't soppused too. Blue Dragon is the game that finnaly fills the huge void 
 in the 360 game line. Blue Dragon is the best Old School Jrpg on any next Gen system. It has amazing 
 Graphics, a great story, classical battle system that has depth and is one of the few rpg's that 
 gives you reason to play it again. It took me 60hrs to finish the main story without doing any 
 xp grinding and I have a plethora of side mission's, Dragons that need killing and achievmants 
 to hunt down. So its a easy 80 hrs first time thru, they are also adding a random dungeon generator 
 for unlimited replayibility. (think it already been released in Japan) Blue Dragon is everything 
 and more . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is a game that upon announcement had alot to deliver. Created by Hironobu Sakaguchi 
 (the creator of Final Fantasy) featuring Nobuo Uematsu (famous composer of Final Fantasy) and designed 
 by Akira Toriyama (Dragonball Z, Dragon Quest VIII artist) , this was a game that couldn't go wrong. 
 But somewhere, somehow, something did. Not that Blue Dragon is a bad game, far from it, but it's 
 just not special either, everything in it has been seen before, which in itself is far worse.
 
  
  The game begins with a boy called Shu fighting a giant landshark come to destroy Talta village. 
 With the help of two friends Jiro and Kluke they set a trap to capture it. Before long they end 
 up discovering ancient machines, unique magic powers and all about the ancients that left them 
 behind. The story to the game is fairly thread bare of any deep characteristics, and at it's best 
 moments felt like something from the unfinished already overused script of an 80's anime. While 
 the story itself is passable enough to get your party traveling on a cliched "save the world" adventure, 
 I found one thing about it that really bothered me. I couldn't care less about the characters I 
 was presented with. Was it the story? the dialogue? the fact that they were really undeveloped? 
 I never figured it out. But if they were replaced with Lloyd Grossman clones I would have felt 
 more emotional attachment then I did by the time I finished the game.
  
  Shu pretty much only says "I won't give up" and nothing else. Not exactly deep for a main character, 
 the dialogue certainly needed alot of work... The voices that went with them though were largely 
 pretty good, with one exception. Marumaro. I would say that my main fantasy involving Blue Dragon 
 is to see Marumaro beheaded and kicked down the road like a football. He has the most grating voice 
 in the english dub. I hated it. The music doesn't fair any better, it was annoyingly repetitive 
 and unmemorable outside of the boss track "Eternity". The one boss track, the ONLY boss track. 
 And there was only one battle theme outside of that I can remember, pretty dull when you spend 
 most of your time in battles for a 40 hour game....
  
  As for the battles, this was perhaps Blue Dragons saving grace. This game is a very traditional 
 turn based RPG. You have 5 characters, you take it in turns to hit the enemy based on you and your 
 opponents speed stat as to the order this occurs. However your characters don't attack themselves, 
 their powered up magic shadows do. Each characters shadow looms behind them in battles in a specific 
 shape. (Dragon, Bat, Phoenix, Lion, Minator) . However they are all blue, hence the title. Each 
 Shadow has different classes it can level up in, giving it access to new skills, spells and abilities 
 to use in battle. This is done by SP awarded to them after battle. While your characters gain exp 
 to level up themselves, though all they gain is an increase in stats. These classes are set into 
 speicialites, Black mage is for attack spells, White mage for Healing, Monk for attacking and countering, 
 and the generalist class. The generalist is the most interesting to use as it gives your characters 
 extra skill slots needed to use more skills from classes when you have a different one equiped, 
 allowing for characters to be alot more well rounded.
  
  Many of these skills can be used outside of battle for a number of different effects. This can 
 be done in a dungeun, or even when running around on the world map, pretty much where enemies appear. 
 To do this the right trigger must be pulled when in range of a target (no random battles) which 
 pauses the game and sets a ring around your character, showing the radius in which the equiped 
 skill can be used. Adding a nice little pre battle touch.
  
  While in this field area mode enemies in range will be highlighted, any two whose names turn yellow 
 hate each other as much as they hate you, attacking all at once will cause a three way rumble, 
 making things alot easier on your party.
  
  Of course this is largely pointless. Why? The game is so laughable in it's difficulty setting. 
 Half the time I played it I wasn't even watching the screen, just hitting "attack" over and over. 
 This included boss fights. To say it was easy would get you the understatement of the year award. 
 There has been a download pack that adds an option for a hard mode. And if you are an experienced 
 RPG gamer i reccomend you use it whole heartedly.
  
  To make boss fights even easier (yes I said that) each Shadow has a corpreal attack. Think of it 
 like a Final Fantasy limit break or overdrive. The ultimate special move. these can be used as 
 your corpreal attack meter increases whenever you do anything from attacking or being attacked. 
 To unleash the ultimate attack. All shadows have them. And they kill pretty much everything but 
 a few secret bosses outright when you unleash them. Overkill. They look awesome though.
  
  The visuals to Blue Dragon are very nice, especially the environments like the underwater cave 
 where the lighting effects and water are quite a sight to look at. But like alot of things in Blue 
 Dragon, where there is a plus side.... the characters look great. Akira Toriyama's characters really 
 come to life in beautiful 3D. But, like all Akira designs they all look the same. Shu looks like 
 Gohan, who looks like the Dragon Quest VIII main character who looks like the guy from Chrono... etc. 
 You get the picture. If you like his designs then fantastic, if not, prepare for de ja vu big time.
 
  There was slow down in odd places as well, especially in battle scenes and flying over the world 
 map. The loading I also found a problem, especially in the cutscenes. While they looked amazing, 
 there would be four in a row with little loading stutters inbetween each one. Why not just have 
 one giant cutscene?
  
  Blue Dragon, despite my many gripes mentioned in this review is actually a good game. The many 
 flaws in this game (unoriginal story aside) are small and do not interfere that much. But they 
 do enough to keep the game from being the very enjoyable experience it should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  So this is a RPG for the xbox360 and has a somewhat interesting character development system much 
 like an ice cream if you into that stuff you will stuff your face for days if if just like it as 
 part of a meal it does nothing to you but confuse you and make you think that what you doing is 
 the worse possible choice. Graphics are lame and the dragon animations get old quick. upgrades 
 and new skills only adds a few extra minutes of entertainment. If there was no story to this game 
 it wouldn't make much difference. Four discs of nothing really. the playing on each disc wouldn't 
 take that long if it wasn't for those cut scenes and more cut scenes. If i had to say something 
 about this game it would be DON'T DO IT MAN!!! YOU HAVE LOTS TO LIVE FOR. or something similar, 
 but hey you know what they give you a free music cd with all or almost all the songs in the game 
 yeah! the same songs you been hearing for the last 60 hours of play, thats right you can now put 
 then on your Ipod and listen to it in school, work, or whatever you do when you not selling your 
 soul for achievement points. Bottom line _ don't even rent it_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say this. Just because this was made by the Dream Team of Sakaguchi, Uematsu 
 and Toriyama, doesn't mean this is some sort of sequel, or anything even like Chrono Trigger. We 
 on th same page now? Good.
  
  This is a VERY classic turn based RPG at its heart with a few additions, but nothing revolutionary 
 or innovative as aforementioned game which will not be mentioned again after this. If you like 
 traditional turn based RPGs, then you will most likely enjoy this game enough to play it through. 
 While I say anyone should play this, I will not lie, some game types are not for everyone and if 
 you don't like Japanese Style RPGs in their purest form, then stop now. Last warning.
  
  For those with an open mind or even fans of the JRPG let's begin.
  
  You start off as a seemingly 
 lazy Gohan lookalike named Shu. Your village of Talta is under attack from this huge monstrosity 
 named the Land Shark , and your friends Jiro (who also looks almost exactly like Saiyaman Gohan) 
 and Kluke (random Akira Toriyama female model) . The three of them try to stop this thing from destroying 
 the town, only to get swept up in a whirlwind adventure that is all over the place in terms of 
 emotions, themes and people you meet. In the end, you get two other characters in your party, some 
 minature... um... cream puffy type thing with arms and yellow fur named Marumaro (who happens to 
 be on the Guiness Book of World Records most annoying voices ever list, I think he's at #2 behind 
 Fran Drescher) and the cool and collected Lady Zola who is a mercenary in the employ of a King. 
 Without trying to say too much more and ruin any of the story, there is a bad guy by the name of 
 Nene who looks like a cross between a raisin and a vampire. He likes hurting people (although it 
 is much more complicated than that, but saying anything beyond that will spoil things) . Lets just 
 say you guys want to stop him.
  
  Sparing any plot details, the game is not as epic as Chrono Trigger (arg I said it again) , as detailed 
 or pretentious as Xenosaga, or even like Final Fantasy. It just is. Is it good? Sure, is it the 
 best story ever, na, not really, but it doesn't make the game worse.
  
  So, you might be asking where does this Blue Dragon come in? Well, you gain magical powers early 
 on in the game and they manifest themselves in the form of a giant shadow monster, in particular, 
 a Dragon, Minotaur, Phoenix, Saber Tooth Tiger and Killer Bat, all of which are blue. Get it now?
 
  They are the cause of all of your attacks (while oddly enough the characters themselves are the 
 targets of the attacks) .
  
  The game has 8 classes of Shadows (AKA job classes) . They are Sword Master (basic heavy hitter 
 melee damage dealer) , Guardian (Paladin type from Final Fantasy, can block attacks for others) , 
 Assassin (another tricky damage dealer who can steal and stun and control enemies) , White and Black 
 Magic users (c'mon now...) , Support Magic (enhances allies and detracts from enemies) , Barrier 
 Magic (also enhances allies with shield and magic shields and has another interesting effect that 
 I will mention later) , and Generalist (the weak class but has a ton of slots for putting various 
 skills in which if played well is the most powerful class in the game) .
  
  That being said, you have to earn Exp to level your main character and then SP (shadow points) 
 to level your Shadow. Your equipped shadow dictates your HP/MP/Str/ etc. and your skills you can 
 use. Most classes get their main skills (which you can use ANYTHING providing you own it, namely 
 the spells for magic users or for magic sword users) . You get 3 secondary skill slots which you 
 can insert other skills like +50% extra MP, or Black Magic .
  When inserting an entire shadow skill class you must be aware of what level it is, if you don't 
 have high enough level, you can't cast that spell in a job that you aren't high enough in. So once 
 you reach say level... 32 for white magic, you unlock level 6 white magic skill, and that is your 
 highest you can get. So, in theory, say you are a white magic user, but you have maxed out all 
 of the skills (you don't have to get to shadow level 99 to get all the skills by the way) , you 
 can use ALL magic of Black, White, Support and Barrier magic. Or you could merely have White Magic 
 (automatic) + 50% extra MP, Regenerate MP and HP instead. The combinations are monumental, and 
 only enhanced by the Generalist class (Although I'd only recommend using that once you get a spread 
 of skills) .
  
  That being said, there isn't anything more fancy about job classes besides leveling them, and using 
 appropriate skills in the right time and situation. Period.
  
  The game itself is a turn based attack with enemies and characters going in order depending on 
 their agility. You have a turn bar on top to see when who goes (think FFX, although there is no 
 hot swapping since all 5 members can be in the game at once) . The last team standing wins, period. 
 You can utilize magic elemental weakness like any other JRPG, you get poisoned, confused, etc (although 
 the names change due to copyright and legal issues , they are there) . To be honest, that's pretty 
 much it in terms of core gameplay. There are a number of little additions to the game though that 
 make it more than a pretty looking version of the original Final Fantasy or just Dragon Warrior 
 (Quest nowadays) .
  
  1.) NO random encounters. I know a lot of people hate those. This time you can either avoid altogether 
 (for the most part) battles or pick and choose however you want to fight.
  
  2.) Continuing the no random encounters line, you have an onscreen targeting system which is titled 
 the encounter circle. Int his circle you can fight ANY and ALL combinations of any monster within 
 the radius of your circle. This can be handy for tactics later against monsters that are more powerful 
 or just any reason you chose.
  
  3.) Yet more on this encounter circle. Two things can happen. One, if the names turn yellow on 
 the encounter circle, you can fight both (or more) of those enemies at the same time, with a bonus. 
 Enemies in this game are sometimes enemies to each other in a predatory way. Fighting two or more 
 enemies in yellow names will engage in a Monster Fight, where you get all the experience, but the 
 enemies will duke it out for a good amount of the fight. If not outright killing, sometimes the 
 weaker enemy weakens the strong enemy with impenetrable armor so you can finish them. Sometimes 
 this is handy if you use it right against big miniboss enemies guarding chests and such.
  
  4.) Final thing is if you fight many enemies at once, you get bonuses to HP/Attack/Etc and a bigger 
 cut of XP and gold at the end. Fighting 10 groups of enemies at once (hard to do) gives you an 
 achievement FYI.
  
  5.) Another neat thing relates to job classes and skills called Field Skills . You can assign these 
 to the left and right shoulder buttons. They can attract enemies, repel them or in the case of 
 the awesome Barrier Magic user, destroy them outright. However this only yields about half the 
 SP and no exp and gold. Still, quite easy to blow through a dungeon and get some good shadow levels 
 up. Mind you, enemies you haven't fought before or some who are very tough break your barrier and 
 you fight them.
  
  The other three things to mention about the game are:
  
  You can search things.... A LOT of things. And I mean an *expletive deleted* load of things. Sometimes 
 it's just 10 gold, sometimes it's XP, sometimes it's an attack item or something. Search around, 
 you can get lucky sometimes.
  
  Minigames. While this game has some pretty good minigames (I like the laser moon shooting one) , 
 they are easy enough to beat, but very hard to do well enough to get the achievements tied to them. 
 Too bad you can't go back and play them whenever you want though.
  
  Corporeal Attacks, like limit breaks, these are insanely powerful, but kind of hard to get pulled 
 off. You gotta take a beating, but if you finish a fight, your meter goes to zero again. Basically 
 I feel this was added as an afterthought or not properly introduced earlier in the story, although 
 only later in the game does this actually become a necessity.
  
  Sadly, this game is incredibly, and by incredibly, I mean stupidly easy to a fault. I don't think 
 I had to revive one character until the end of disc 1, and until I fought one of the super bosses 
 near the end, did I ever have two people down at once. If I had to say one thing that is a major 
 bummer it would be the difficulty. Mostly easy smooth sailing with a very small squall here and 
 there, but not enough until the end game I think. As of writing this, there is a hard mode DLC 
 on Xbox Live. I suggest RPG vets check it out.
  
  In the visual and audio aspects, this game is amazing. Let me try something new.
  
  Start this 
 game at a 7 in terms of graphics. Do you like Akira Toriyama's Art Style? Add 2 points
  
  Do you hate his art style? Subtract 2 points
  
  Do you like vibrant colors and large environments? 
 Add 1 point
  
  Do you like visual styles that can't be easily summed up or lumped into one genre (if I defined 
 this game as a 3D CGI High Resolution Claymation, that might give you an idea) ? Add 1 point
  
  So basically, it's a good looking game. I kind of biased it towards the only negative aspect 
 of this game being Akira Toriyama's steadfast adherence to his only art style. But I will say this 
 again, the game is amazing looking, the characters look like high resolution CGI models from Dragon 
 Ball Z. This three dimensional quality distracts you from the fact that his work is so derivative. 
 However aside from the main characters, the game has gorgeous vibrant colors (a nice change from 
 all the earth tones in contemporary games, not just RPGs) . One of the most simple yet impressive 
 graphical designs in this game is a place called Mural Town where living murals of all colors in 
 a watercolor wall painting come to life and talk to you. It looks like some weird cross between 
 Salvador Dali and Pablo Picasso plus Geometry, but all done in vibrant pastels and neons. In stark 
 contrast to that, you have antiseptic robotic factories, which in contrast to that you have organic 
 rural villages and huge underground caverns... and yes, the obligatory Ice World section.
  
  In all, the graphics in this game are amazing, simply phenomenal and the only bad point I can 
 say is the derivative Toriyama art style. If you can get over that or even like it, you are in 
 for a visual treat.
  
  Sonically, this game isn't one of Uematsu's most memorable, but it has some of its standout tracks. 
 My favorite would be the boss battle (which can get a little grating after hearing it a few dozen 
 times) . Other good tracks include the very haunting melody that is played in old abandoned factories 
 or the Sea Cube for those who know what I mean. The score has a very Final Fantasy feeling to it, 
 particularly in town (good) , but it is not anything very memorable or impactful (not so good) . 
 In terms of Uematsu's contribution to the total score of the sound in this game, I'd give him 5 
 out of the 10 points.
  
  Music isn't the only thing in sound, voices and effects are part of it too. The voice work is amazing. 
 You usually think Shu is annoying and I won't give up is as commonly said as The by him, but he 
 can be very serious and have deep conversations that make you think twice about him as a character 
 and the voice actor (ess I think) 's talent. Kluke and Jiro are good, no qualms there, Marumaro is 
 extremely annoying for 90% of his dialogue. Imagine an alarm clock going off while being dragged 
 through a cheese grater. That sounds better than his voice. However he does fit the role of the 
 annoying little kid quite well. Zola is silky smooth in her actions and her voice character, often 
 understated and softspoken. The other many supporting characters and villians do their roles nicely 
 (although I do want to smash that little frog thing on Nene's shoulder with a sledge hammer) .
 
  
  A 3 out of 10 comes from the voice work.
  
  An additional bonus point comes from the customization. At first, everything you search or open 
 or do anything has some little voice instructing you. Like Locked is audibly voiced. Or if you 
 search something, or if it becomes playable (I like how the game tells newbies the scene is over 
 and you can play again) . So instead of making veterans and people who are self aware listen to 
 this over and over again, the options in the sound disable this voice, which is very satisfying.
 
  
  So in terms of value of this game, it's an RPG. You want to get all of the incredibly time consuming 
 (and sometimes difficult) achievements in this game? You're gonna spend some time. You want the 
 barebones experience? You're looking at at least 40 hours. I can see myself possibly playing this 
 game again in the far future, but only after I relive the classics of RPG past. So in other words, 
 like a good RPG, it has longevity, but it doesn't have super high replayablility So while an excellent 
 effort and a game of high quality production values and one that gives a noble effort to include 
 newbies in the RPG genre, it doesn't break any new ground or have a tremendous lasting impact like 
 other games the Dream Team members were involved in, but then again, the creators themselves said 
 this was an old school game from the start.
  
  Recap
  
  Gameplay : 7 out of 10
  Graphics : 10 out of 10
  Sound : 9 out of 10
  Value : 8 out of 10
  Tilt : 7 out of 10
  
 
  Overall: 7.5 out of 10
  
  Pros:
  + Incredible graphics and presentation with a great score and voice acting cast.
  + Friendly 
 to RPG newbies with hints and low difficulty curve at the start.
  + A classic RPG style that doesn't do anything wrong and tosses in some new things...
  
  Cons:
 
  - ... some of those new things aren't as revolutionary or inspired as people would hope. Perhaps 
 TOO traditional to be considered real next gen?
  - The game is too damn easy for most RPG vets or even mere novices who have some experience
  
 - You might be really sick of the Akira Toriyama art style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duvtljnt
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon has some serious clout behind it, being crafted by the very hands that began Final 
 Fantasy, my favorite game series of all time. But despite all that genius, Blue Dragon turns out 
 to be a rather uninspired, yet solid, JRPG.
  
  The game is graphically gorgeous, as is expected, though the depth of field trickery actually takes 
 away from the environments. A little blur to items that would normally be out of focus might add 
 realism in a realistic setting, but in the cartoonish and fantastical world of Blue Dragon, it 
 is a hindrance. The story, penned by Sakaguchi of FF fame, takes pretty much the entire first disc 
 to launch into anything of substance. And from there, it builds and builds to an almost climax, 
 but then dithers into nothing as the story ends. The twists and turns add no drama, but rather 
 another boring cut-scene.
  
  The battles are monotonous, but not unenjoyable. They offer little in the way of challenge, except 
 for sparse boss battles. I only died once in the entire 40 hour game, and that was on the final 
 battle (and I quickly saw my error and beat it the next time around) .
  
  The music was composed by Nobuo Uematsu, famed composer of much FF music. His style was very apparent 
 in Blue Dragons sounds, but most of the music faded into the background, leaving me without toe 
 tapping or whistling later.
  
  Overall, the game wasn't bad. I enjoyed my time with it, but I wasn't left with a feeling of accomplishment, 
 or really even anything satisfying. I only finished it because it would kill me to leave it unfinished. 
 That said, for any devoted RPG fan, Blue Dragon is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  How can a three-disc RPG bonanza, with three all-time greats behind it, turn out to be a mediocre 
 experience? I dont know, but Blue Dragon has proved its possible. Despite the work of Hironobu 
 Sakaguchi; creator of Final Fantasy, Nobuo Uematsu; long-time composer for Final Fantasy, and Akira 
 Toriyama; the artist behind Dragon Ball Z, Blue Dragon is surprisingly unremarkable. That isnt 
 to say its a horrible game, but in most cases, there will be something more deserving of your 
 time and money.
  
  Like so many RPGs before it, Blue Dragon tells the story of three teenagers and their quest to 
 save the world. Every year, the mysterious land shark lays waste to the village of Talta. In an 
 attempt to break this destructive cycle, the three teenagers; Shu; Jiro; and Kluke, set a trap 
 to neutralise the beast. Things dont go as planned, however, and the three get swept up on a grand 
 quest to save the world. Not long after the games beginning, the trios shadows take the form 
 of monsters, allowing them to use magic. Shus shadow becomes a dragon, Jiros a minotaur, and 
 Klukes a phoenix.
  
  Although the story is very typical, its the bland and annoying characters that hurt Blue Dragons 
 narrative. Shus constant I wont give up! speeches become very grating, and they dont subside 
 as the game continues. Jiro and Kluke arent particularly annoying, but they end up fitting into 
 predictable stereotypes; Jiro the calm-and-collected thinker, and Kluke the damsel in distress. 
 Equally bland voice-acting does nothing to enhance the script. In the case of Marumaro, one of 
 two party members that join you later in the game, the voice acting will only give you the urge 
 to cut your ears off. If youd prefer Japanese or French voice tracks, they are there for you.
 
  
  Despite using a traditional turn-based combat system, Blue Dragons gameplay has some interesting 
 quirks that save it from being a poor game. You can customise the abilities of each characters 
 shadow with a job system. Defeating enemies gains you skill points (SP) that level up your shadows 
 class, allowing you to learn new skills and abilities. By switching classes frequently, you can 
 create some interesting shadows; for example, a sword master that can cast healing magic, or a 
 monk that can equip extra accessories. Its an accessible system, but its one that gives you a 
 fair bit of leeway to build each character as you see fit.
  
  The way in which encounters occur is also quite interesting. You can see enemies in the environment, 
 allowing you to pick and choose your battles. This is where the encounter circle comes in. Tapping 
 the right trigger pauses the game and identifies all enemies within battling range. From here, 
 you can select which enemies you want to fight. You can even choose to battle every enemy in your 
 encounter circle, which results in a battle gauntlet. Youll face off against the first enemy, 
 and upon defeating that group, the next one will come straight away. Successfully dispatching a 
 group gives you a random power-up that will help in the next battle (s) and include a physical attack 
 boost and HP restoration. Youll also gain certain abilities that can be used in the environment; 
 field barrier, for example, will instantly dispatch enemies weaker than you on contact.
  
  The way in which Blue Dragon handles battles, both combat and encounters, is definitely its strongest 
 feature. Its a little bit different; although it isnt drastic enough to constitute a revolution, 
 its accessible, easy-to-use, and fun. Its not going to turn someone who hates turn-based combat, 
 but for those who enjoy it (or tolerate it) , youll find something there to be happy about.
  
  Akira Toriyamas influence on Blue Dragons art style is immense, and if youre familiar with 
 any of his previous works, youll see that influence immediately. Toriyama-sans character designs 
 are extremely distinctive and sport a heavy manga look. If youre a fan of this style, Blue Dragon 
 is a visual marvel. The art style is backed up well by the graphical power of the Xbox 360, and 
 result in some beautiful environments. However, despite the abundance of variation, these environments 
 all too often feel dead. Youll feel as if the environments are too big just to stretch out the 
 time youll be playing, and there arent enough vibrant NPCs to compensate for this. Youre also 
 subjected to a lot of CG story sequences. Theyre pretty, but if you arent one who likes sitting 
 through them, you wont be pleased.
  
  Although the voice-acting (touched upon earlier) is relatively lacklustre, the rest of the sound 
 design is very impressive. Uematsu-san has crafted an effective musical score that stands as one 
 of Blue Dragons strengths. Critical events in the story are echoed by tracks that evoke the appropriate 
 emotions, and fast-and-furious beats accompany you to battle. The one minor disappointment is that 
 there are only two real battle themes; a regular theme and a boss battle theme. Considering the 
 amount of time you spend in combat, itd be nice to have a little more variety here.
  
  The bottom line is Blue Dragon isnt a bad game. It just happens to be run-of-the-mill, and in 
 a genre where there are already hundreds of quality games like this, it doesnt help its cause. 
 Ultimately, the amount of enjoyment you get out of Blue Dragon depends upon your expectations. 
 If youre looking for a revolutionary blockbuster of a game, look elsewhere because youll be disappointed. 
 However, if you are content with playing a typical RPG and want it to last for a good forty hours, 
 then you might find yourself pleasantly surprised. Xbox Live members can stretch the game out even 
 longer if they wish, thanks to a free download that adds a super-hard difficulty and a New Game+ 
 option, allowing you to restart a completed save with all your items, statistics, and skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbo888
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the worst rpg I have ever played. Not only is it immature, but the story feels like 
 some 5 year old thought it up. I played it for maybe 10 hours and I returned it to gamestop and 
 bought Bioshock. The only good thing about this game is that the graphics are pretty polished. 
 The main character is an arrogant 16 year old who is constantly saying I'll never give up! Seriously 
 he says it in every other sentence. This game isn't worth the time nor the money. Go download an 
 emulator and download Chrono Trigger off the internet. By far the best rpg I have ever played and 
 it's on super nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I bet all of you who read this review will agree when I say this, you hype so much about something, 
 you finally get it, and it's not quite as good as you hoped it would be. Well, in this particular 
 case, Blue Dragon is relevant to what I'm talking about. Don't get me wrong, there is fun to be 
 had in the game, it just doesn't live up to the hype.
  Blue Dragon is a Japanese RPG from Final Fantasy creator and legend Hironobu Sakaguchi, the famed 
 DragonBall Z artist Akira Toriyama, and conmposer Nobuo Umeatsu, the last time these three were 
 together was about 15 years ago, when they made one of the best RPGS of all time: Chrono Trigger, 
 Now they've reunited in Sakaguchi's new studio, Mistwalker and created this.
  The Story is about a 16-year old boy named Shu, and his two friends Jiro and Kluke, Their village 
 is attacked every year by the vicious Land Shark and Shu and friends had enough of it. So one day, 
 when the Land Shark comes to wreck the village again, They set a trap for it. They try to catch 
 it, but they get dragged into an old set of ruins, that's where the Land Shark flies to a flying 
 fortress, and Shu, Jiro, and Kluke meet Nene, an old scientist who built the land shark and lives 
 off death and destruction. Shu is quickly defeated and the party is thrown out of the fort. Just 
 when they are about to hit the ocean, an unknown force saves them, and sends them to the top of 
 Nene's fortress. There a strange voice tells them to swallow spheres of light to give them power. 
 When they do, their shadows turn into creatures with immense power. Now they are trying to foil 
 Nene's evil ways and save the world. along the way they meet the batkin, Marumaro, and a royal 
 blademaster Zola.
  What I liked about the game is that the graphics are great and the environmnents look beautiful, 
 and Toriyama's art convert's into excellent 3-D elements. The voice acting is good and the music 
 fits into it's place. It's also pretty cool to fight with your shadow.
  What's bad is that the background is always blurry, and the monsters don't make much of a challenge. 
 Aside from that, it has (in my opinion) the corniest boss battle music that I've ever heard. Also, 
 the story is not very original, The character personalities are from a lot of RPGS we've seen before, 
 same thing with the story.
  Blue Dragon is a good game, it's just not groundbreaking, with Lost Oddysey coming up, Mistwalker 
 better bring it's A-game with that game if it wants to make an impact on the RPG world, and Japan's 
 standpoint on Microsoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrleanKnight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  We all know that XBox has never been the console for RPGs, and most certainly jRPGs which delve 
 into the Turn-Based system of classic gaming. Perhaps Microsoft's most fatal flaw when it comes 
 to world wide marketing, but they've tried to make up for the effort by putting together an impressive 
 team of creators who have given us Blue Dragon for the XBox 360. Perhaps one of the only real turn 
 based RPGs that can be found on the XBox with some real caliber to it as well. But the game is 
 also haunted by its own hype, and also the major mistake in forgetting the audience.
  
  Microsoft went out on a limb to put together this team, and the team they got was the best of the 
 best, true vets of the genre which have provided many years of solid gaming enjoyment to Japan; 
 which just happens to be one country that has the poorest XBox 360 sales reputation. The game begins 
 like a very standard, and almost bland jRPG. Though it does toss you into the action fairly quickly, 
 it fails to really captivate audiences with the extremely vague story. The only thing truly more 
 interesting than the story is the battle system. Obviously, Blue Dragon is a game catered to the 
 whims of the Japanese, and a more mature gaming audience. But Western Audiences, and more typically 
 XBox 360 fans, are extremely impatient and desire more action right out of the package. They tend 
 to expect games to give them a solid punch right-off, and Blue Dragon fails at this. The English 
 version sports a very poor voice-over cast, but at least it does offer both Japanese and English 
 voice formats. If played in Japanese, you are guaranteed to have a more pleasing experience when 
 it comes to watching the many, many cut scenes which illustrate all full three Dual-Layered DVDs 
 which this game is packed into. However, a large bulk of the English audience doesn't have much 
 respect for foreign languages, so won't take this option. Sadly, Blue Dragon's story isn't the 
 best, though it does eventually become quite impressive as it continues on. Only really kicking 
 into high gear on the third Disc, which if you care to avoid much of the optional side quests in 
 the game you can get to quite quickly on normal mode. This is because the stock mode provided with 
 the game in retail stores is far too easy for most gamers, basically offering a dumbed down lot 
 of monsters which are no match for the extremely clever, and truly amazing battle system and character 
 development system. This problem was fixed however at the closing of September 2007, when XBox 
 Live released the Ultra Hard Mod, allowing players several new gaming possibilities. Players can 
 now create a New Game+, allowing them to tackle Hard Mode or even Impossible mode. If they've already 
 started a Normal Mode game but do not want to start over entirely, players can transfer their saves 
 to a new mode. In essence, they'll retain all their items, equipment, levels, and shadow skills 
 but will have to restart the game. This is well worth it, as bosses in Disc 3 become very challenging 
 even for the most skilled of players. With that being said, it is obvious the true beauty of this 
 game is the battle system. With so much customization and growth, this game will offer a long life 
 span that far exceeds many standard RPGs on the market to date. Players will experience full control 
 on the battlefield, as easy to read timing meters allow them to gage the power of your attacks 
 the more your characters grow. Powerful spells can be adjusted in battle, expanding to more than 
 one target just simply by fully charging the ability to the desired amount.
  
  Enemies also respond to your actions, such as large robots over heating, or dragons being sundered 
 of their heads if you aim for their necks. But such only happens with a hand full of bosses, as 
 each boss offers a new and unique experience on the battlefield. Perhaps some of the best fights 
 will emerge at the conclusion of Disc 2, and also throughout Disc 3. Even the optional bosses, 
 such as five dragons, and the Golden Mecha Robo deliver some harsh punishment. Also, XBox Live 
 will soon be releasing the ever changing Shuffle Dungeon for a meager price of 300 to 400 Microsoft 
 points. This offers new items, ten new bosses, and various rooms which ever change as you continue 
 to explore through them. Though the characters are not truly lovable, you begin to admire them 
 at the conclusion of the game. Finding that in all the game's wonderment, it has truly managed 
 to sport a very surprising and unexpected ending. Managing to not only completely change the meaning 
 of the game, but also manage to make up for the poor beginning and setup for more releases. Blue 
 Dragon gets better and better the more you play it, and thankfully it doesn't cover players over 
 with a thick layer of sugar-coated boredom like Eternal Sonata. Blue Dragon is a great game, a 
 true gem, but perhaps not as perfect as a the diamond we were promised. But with all its polish 
 and all its luster, you'll want this gem in your collection for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is overated first of all people rating this 8s and 8s ... tahts overated this game is 
 really bad like anyone can make a game as stupid as this really dissapointing game should be taken 
 out for 360 makes it look bad ,blue dragon is really bad achievment story my little bro could of 
 thought something like that and graphics really bad .. also bad sound affects just puting everything 
 together makes it the biggest bull **** there is bad  
 f f gsesfg df df fgdf gdfg dfg dfgdf fd hfg dgd fgdf dfg fgd g dfg fg d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  The Good: Nostalgic gameplay; Great art style and sound; the game's brimming with humor; The Villain...
 
  
  The Bad: The battles can get too frequent and dry in certain areas; Several cutscenes contain either 
 corny or forced dialogue...
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Blue Dragon is Microsoft's savior; it's the truth. Without this game, the giant has no chance of 
 toppling the now gargantuan marketing machine, the Wii. The Japanese gamers aren't getting ripped 
 off either; Blue Dragon is awesome.
  
  The game's story is simple, yet satisfying. It begins with a corny intro with Shu (A Gokuish character 
 who refuses to quit) , Jiro (Think Adult Gohan) , and Kluke (The typical 16 year old orphan who's 
 very mature for her age) , attempt to protect their village from an anual disaster.
  
  The heroes are dragged away &amp; seperated from their families. They soon find themselves with 
 ancient magical powers and the sole potential saviors of the world. Sure, it's cliched, but that 
 doesn't make the story a total flop. While Shu may be obnoxious, I found Jiro and Kluke to be relatively 
 likeable characters. When you throw in Marumaro's antics, and Zola's Android 18 style attitude, 
 you get a very diverse and unique party. The villain is where the story truly shines, b/c Nene 
 is the greatest and most evil mastermind since Sephiroth. The things that he does to the party 
 and his true aims go so far beyond the initial, I like to watch you suffer. Villains don't get 
 much cooler than Nene, but I wish his name didn't remind me of old ladies with lots of cats who 
 watch children. The gameplay is alot like final fantasy 5. The job system is similar, and battles 
 unfold with an FF10, strategy game, hybrid. You'll cast spells at enemies, and the power of your 
 spell will determine how long it takes to perform; giving you the opportunity to choose if you 
 want a powerful spell, or if you want to get a head start over baddies. Thus, you'll sometimes 
 have to sacrifice power for speed in desperate measures.
  
  It is true that the job systems tend to take personality from the characters during battle, because 
 (save for corporeal attacks) no character has any exclusive techniques, and there are no voices 
 during battle. The battles can get frequent, but you can prevent this by using a field barrier 
 technique. It repels weaker enemies on the field and instantly defeats them for SP. This saves 
 alot of time and is good for quickly building skills. The Graphics are great, and the Blur of Depth 
 effects make them shine beyond what I'd have thought possible. It looks far better than the horrible 
 Dragon Quest VIII for the PS2. Akira Toriyama's character models are like living clay models in 
 a full, vibrant world. The musical score is a masterpiece (although the boss theme is an aquired 
 taste) , and the voice acting is a great, if a little strained, feature. I could see myself downloading 
 a few of the tracks on an Ipod. They're very catchy. Blue Dragon is everything that Dragon Quest 
 VIII failed to accomplish. The combat is fresh and exciting, the villain is wicked, and I don't 
 ever get the dull feeling that the characters are getting forced into arbitrary fetch quests. The 
 story has far more structure than DQ VIII, and anyone will find it enjoyable with time. This is 
 Microsoft's finest hour for a possible market in Japan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game to come out right when I read about it in my Game informer. I tracked 
 all the news that was released about it, and just waited for it to be released. When I finally 
 played it, I could tell this would be a pretty good game.
  
  The story isn't really huge or complex, but a traditional old-school story that will take you back 
 to the SNES era. You play as Shu, Jiro, and Kluke, three friends that plan to take down the Land 
 Shark, which always ruin their village every 10 years. The plan goes unsuccessful, and find out 
 the Land Shark is metal. After a few events, they meet Nene, the villan of the game who harms people 
 just to see them suffer (think of an old version of Kefka, but less sadistic and psycho) . The story 
 goes from there. They find blue orbs which contain the blue beasts (the dragon for Shu, the minotaur 
 for Jiro, and the phoenix for Kluke) . They then vow to defeat Nene and end his reign of terror 
 with their new powers. The story's concept isn't new, especially if you played any SNES JRPG, but 
 it isn't even close to being bad though. Shu isn't a dumb kid with an incredible power and doesn't 
 know how to use it, nor is he a silent hero battling himself mentally. He's just a person bent 
 on trying to save the world from suffering. This doesn't mean he doesn't have flaws. He constantly 
 says that he will never give up , which gets very tiring after the 28th time you hear it. Jiro 
 is the big brain in the team, who acts like it exactly, and Kluke is the tag-along, who wants in 
 on the action. You eventually meet Maro, an annoying Devee who you want to strangle because of 
 his voice. He actually creeps me out when he does his Devee Dance. Then the last one is Zola, the 
 cool one in the group. She's cool-headed, mature, and ruthless, yet caring too. You'll like her 
 instantly.
  
  The main reason why Blue Dragon was 3 discs was of the graphics. let me tell you, they are amazing. 
 The cutscenes look great and they transition very well. You can tell that Mistwalker put a lot 
 of effort into it. While you're playing the area looks good. There aren't any jags, and the characters (and 
 monsters) are detailed nicely too. Toriyama's designs transition well to 3D. The only thing I have 
 against it is when you are further away from an item, for example, it looks blurry, but when you 
 get close to it, it's detailed.
  
  The score is great. Whoever said that Uematsu lost his touch is obviously crazy. The theme for 
 Nene is really good. I also like the song to the Devee Village. I can't forget the boss battle 
 song Eternity! That is a good, action song for boss battles, although it loses its touch after 
 the first 9 times you hear it. The song, The Seal is Broken was composed very good. I don't think 
 Uematsu was trying to re-create One Winged Angel, nor is the song a copy of it. It stands on its 
 own, as an epic song.
  
  The gameplay is turn-based, but it does bring a few new things. One of them are Corperals, Blue 
 Dragon's version of limit breaks. Another new feature is the charge meter. When you do a magic 
 attack or attack because it's mandatory (Monk class) , a charge meter comes up, and you must hold 
 A to charge. When you want the charge up to a certain point, you release A, and watch the attack/magic 
 be used. There are lines that have an ally/monster's face in it, which means if you charge it before 
 their line, you will perform the move before them, and if it's after their line, the move is after 
 their turn. If you charge lands in the red spot, the MP cost and time is cut in half, but it's 
 hard to get into the red spot. There are also classes, which are not as detailed as FF5, but they 
 are pretty good. The new ones like Sword Masters are the tanks in the classes. Monks always use 
 charges for their attacks and special abilities. There are more, but I'll let you discover them 
 yourself.
  
  If you change a character's class (like if you change Shu from a Swords Master to Monk) , they will 
 retain all the abilities they learned from the previous class. The only thing I have against that 
 is that you can have overpowered characters close to the end of the game, if you put some time 
 into leveling the class.
  
  Overall, this game is a good start for JRPGs on the 360. It shows that Microsoft isn't just tailoring 
 to Western gamers anymore, they are opening up their view, which is good. The characters are good (except 
 Maro) , the score is amazing, and the classes was a good spin to the game, which will keep you playing 
 just to max out the classes to get that achievement. This game made me feel like I was in the SNES 
 era. It also shows that traditional RPGs are still welcomed in the next-gen era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is just the second turn based RPG for the Xbox 360. Unforunately it doesn't quite live 
 up to the hype that was all around it. It definelty has some issues with the story. There just 
 isn't enough character interaction or enough shocking moments to really intrigue you. Even after 
 some 35 hours with the characters you still won't really care at all about them. The story is also 
 lacking with a great villian. Nene is okay, but he just doesn't have that many evil wishes or doesn't 
 have that feel of real evil, which is something that Final Fantasy villians always have. The story 
 is somewhat original though. The idea of a villian causing yearly disasters around the world has 
 not been told to many times, and the idea is certaintly a good one. But because of the non interesting 
 main characters and the somewhat bland villian the story is not nearly as intriguing as it could 
 be. However despite the somewhat mediocere storyline, the combat picks up the slack. The turn based 
 action has a lot of the same greatness from the Final Fantasy series and adds some cool new things 
 to make it even better. When on the battle field you can string together several battles in a row, 
 attack from the back to get an advantage or even make monsters fight each other. If you line up 
 between two enemies that don't like each other, and you see their name turn yellow fight all of 
 them and you will get a monster fight. In monster fights one enemy pretty much completly eliminates 
 the other which makes it really easy to take out large groups of them. The dragons also make combat 
 a lot of fun. You can choose from clases such as White Mage, Black Mage, sword master, thief, etc. 
 You can level them up to where your character is really powerful with that class, then rank up 
 other classes as well. You can also you charged attacks, which adds a lot of stradegy to battle 
 into when the attack will happen. Graphically Blue Dragon pretty much looks fanatastic. The enviornmnets 
 and character models are top notch. Blue Dragon does have great sound effects and great music but 
 the voice acting could be done somehwhat better. Blue Dragon also has a very long story lasting 
 about 35-40 hours and there is a lot of extra side quests to do once you finish the story. If you 
 like RPGs this will definetly appeal to you, if you don't this game certaintly won't change your 
 mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roland3791
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I like the fighting system and the level up process. Choosing what class to work with and how to 
 work it, and long with the other classes up to get a well balanced group is interesting, though 
 26 hours in, I don't find much problem going to a low class, as most of the other characters are 
 able to prevent anything drastic from happeneing. As far as the rest of the game goes. Its got 
 enough going for it to keep me interested and working forward. The achievemnts are a bit disappointing 
 at this point, as it seems less about making it through the game, and more about maxing things, 
 or doing things perfect. Perhaps others will be happier with that kind of challenge, but i just 
 want to play the game, not try and be perfect at every aspect. So, in my opinion, not as good as 
 some other rpg, but worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eiroku24
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  While the graphics will undoubtedly pique the interest of Toriyama fans they will quickly be ignored 
 as you curse the exceedingly long cutscenes which can thankfully be skipped at will. Effects, though 
 beautiful, are rehashed ad nauseum for new skills and spells. Sure, that fireball looked cool the 
 first time but seeing the exact same thing over and over, even for more powerful version, will 
 become forgettable. Environments will, at first, seem gorgeous and well thought out until you see 
 that same area a few dozen times. The only plus to the repetitive areas is that almost every object 
 can be checked for containing items which will usually yield a uneventful and annoying Nothing. 
 announced by the disembodied voice.
  
  Combat:
  The initial novelty of the Blue Dragons fighting for you will, as the other aspects of the game, 
 become forgettable and eventually annoying as you just want your character to attack. The timing 
 aspect strives to keep you awake in an otherwise very boring and very overdone combat style: Menu 
 -&gt; attack -&gt; rinse -&gt; repeat. The field circle does increase the fun as you see Monster 
 Battles when two opposing enemies are attacked at once and do your dirty work for you; sometimes 
 destroying the other enemy or simply weakening each other.
  
  Story:
  The story couldn't get any more cliche unless it was an intentional parody. Village destroyed, 
 quest to get revenge, that is the story in it's entirety. Though other games have used this story 
 and become exceedingly well done and exciting, such as Golden Sun, this is the epitome of Been 
 there, done that 
  
  Overall:
  It's not a horrible game but it's far from a great game. If you want the quick Japanese RPG fix 
 for your 360 be prepared to be greatly underwhelmed and enjoy the mediocrity. The game is the equivalent 
 of a movie-game sans the movie to be compared to. You will forget it almost instantly if not _while_ 
 playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  BLUE OR RED ? And a great RPG again on XBOX 360. blue dragon was kind of agame which it, s advertisement 
 was larger than the game, s quality . and when Microsoft said we use huge japanies company to create 
 games for our console many people said the Blue dragon is a tough competitor for final fantasy 
 . and 360, s fans had think this is a big game cause there was not lots of RPG game on this platform 
 .but after releasing the English version of blue dragon many people start blaming about this game. 
 Lots of game magazine and website said the game hasn, t anything new . Blue dragon itself is a good 
 game but not like final fantasy or the others. The game play is good specially for hardcore RPG 
 ,s fans. 360 has not such this RPG till now. And if you had played with another RPG like Tales 
 of the world now it, s BLUE DAGON ,s turn . for playing Blue dragon you need lots of time and you 
 have to be patient too. Till half of the first Disc there is not a real excitement and you are 
 learning the game all the time . the game had pay attention to all turn base RPG, s rules like all 
 of the other turn base RPG . especially the games menus are really beautiful and you enjoy roaming 
 in it. The most important thing in these games are boss fight and boss fights are really perfect 
 in Blue Dragon. The story is not so deep and there is not such a character that we had expected 
 but they are still a bit heroic .but they are not suitable for a huge game like blue dragon with 
 more than 60 hours gameplay. Also the bad guys in this game are not very sweet and some times you 
 don, t know is this a serious game or a comic game. But for the records the game will be very exciting 
 lately in the game and just try to avoid any side quest or something to reach the end of the game. 
 But the game, s graphic and sound are pretty good . a 3D cartoon graphic which will be enjoyable 
 till end of the game. And the dynamic music system will do his job in the manner of beautiful . 
 especially in the boss fights. If you hear me don, t pay attention to Blue Dragon, s scores . it, s 
 a good game for japanies RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deuceswld84
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  While Blue Dragon may not try anything completely new. It does offer up some good ol' fashioned 
 Role Playing that has been missed sense the SNES days.
  
  Visuals:
  The visuals are just stunning. Backgrounds, the environment, even the water effects are the selling 
 point for the beautiful graphics this game offers. The character models are good. While the environments 
 have some heavy detail the main cast and the other people you meet lack really any at all. Cut 
 scenes look great, but it has a little pause in between scenes that can be a little annoying. The 
 games frames per second will suffer sometimes when there is to much on the screen. Final Score: 
 9
  
  Sound:
  Music, and the sound effects are great. If your like me, you'll find yourself bobbin' your head 
 to some of the tunes in Blue Dragon. Effects surprisingly have some nice detail. From the little 
 splashes of water, to the grass crushing under your feet. You'll be surprised how much detail the 
 sound effects have. Final Score: 8.5
  
  Gameplay:
  While this may not be nothing new. The class system dishes out some interesting choices while powering 
 up your party. After the first disk most battles won't last even a minute. The spell menus are 
 easy to navigate. Strategies are easy to pick up in any battle. The game itself is pretty easy 
 unfortunately. There is quite a bit of mini games in Blue Dragon, those offer up the best challenges 
 in the whole game. Thats if you want the achievements. So good luck with that. Final Score: 8
 
  
  Voice Acting:
  I didn't include this with sound for a reason. The voice acting isn't very good. The main character's 
 voice may get on your nerves as will Maru's (the little yellow guy) . Other than them two, the voice 
 acting wasn't to bad....
  Blue Dragon gives you the choice of English, Japanese, and French voices. Final Score: 7
  
 
  Story:
  The story isn't half bad either. Its not gonna go down in history, but I really can't say to much 
 for the fear of spoiling it. Characters development is o. k. Has a few nice intense moments like 
 where you're dieing to know what happens.
  The story really though doesn't take off till after disk one, and I clocked in about 15 hours on 
 the first disk. When it was all said and done I had 65 or 70 hours in it (side quests included) . 
 Final Score: 7.5
  
  Replay:
  Unless you wanna get all the achievements, really no point.
  
  Final Thought:
  If you're 
 a fan of the old school JRPGs you'll wanna give this game a shot. Blue Dragon may not be anything 
 spectacular, but it does offer up a dish full of nostalgia and a side order of fun. You can't go 
 wrong by at least renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very, very long game, well executed combat, very colorful and well crafted world, interesting 
 characters, solid storyline.
  
  The Bad: Battles can get pretty repetitive, little kids curse a lot, almost too long.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Xbox 360 isn't exactly a hot seller in Japan right now, and that's due to a lack of RPGs. 
 This year, we finally got Blue Dragon, an ambitious and epic RPG from the creator of Final Fantasy. 
 It's a game that has given the 360 a bit of life overseas.
  
  You play as Shu, a young boy who get's transported into a huge world by a Land Shark and must embark 
 with his friends to find their way home and battle the forces of evil. Along the way, they obtain 
 shadow powers, which allow their shadows to come alive and help them defeat the foes in their way. 
 This is an interesting consept that is well executed in Blue Dragon. The storyline is obviously 
 very epic, and it fits together well to form an immersive experience.
  
  The gameplay for Blue Dragon is pretty standard Japanese RPG fair. It's turn based combat featuring 
 your shadow fighters, who take special forms for each child. It's nothing too unique, but it is 
 very well executed and can be quite fun. Sometimes, the battles can get old, but one nice feature 
 of Blue Dragon is that instead of random monster battles, you can simply walk past a monster you 
 don't want to fight. It's that easy.
  
  The graphics are very cartoony, but still look fantastic thanks the the power of the 360. It's 
 a very pretty looking game. The voice acting is quite good, but and the music is for the most part, 
 but there are a few songs that feel out of place. It's a solid game from a technical aspect.
  
  One of the biggest perks and irks of this game is the length. It's 3 DVDs long, which means 
 that it will last you 90-100 hours, but that can be a bad thing because it would take quite a bit 
 of dedication to get through a game that long. It's not like it's painful to play or anything, 
 but the battles can get old after playing them for 20-30 hours, let alone through the entire game. 
 This is definately a game you want to play in chunks, not non-stop, but not play for a short time 
 and leave on your shelf for a week either. Play it for a few hours, then play something else and 
 pick it up again tomorrow or in a few days.
  
  It may not be anything too unique, but Blue Dragon is a solid Japanese RPG that is lengthy and 
 that you will enjoy playing thanks to it's well done gameplay and storyline. It's fun, but it can 
 get old after a while. I would recomend at least trying Blue Dragon if you are at all interested 
 in RPGs.
  
  Gameplay: It's a pretty standard Japanese RPG, but it's very well done, it's super long and has 
 a good storyline.
  
  Graphics: It's very cartoony. but still quite impressive from a visual standpoint.
  
  Sound: 
 Solid voice acting and a pretty good soundtrack are nice touches.
  
  Value: Um, if you actually hope to finish this game, you kinda have to buy it or spend a ton of 
 money on rentals.
  
  Final Thoughts: My shadow can beat up your shadow... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotrekfabian
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  This great looking anime style RPG is just about right in almost all of the departments but one 
 and unfortunately this is the combat. What promises to be a nice turn based combat starts to wear 
 on you a little after 500 fights or so (save for the bosses) but don't let this put you off playing 
 it. It has a nice storyline, some great characters, side games and really makes you want to look 
 in every nook and cranny to find every bit of treasure you can find. Well worth its money considering 
 the amount of time you'll get out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blewan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  ok, keep in mind, everyone loves comparing this game to the FF series because of it's obvious connections... but 
 while it has the same classic feel of those games (particularly ff7) it most certainly is not as 
 serious or engrossing as that game.
  I'm 25 hours in and having a blast playing it...
  the customization of skills is probably its best feature.
  gamespot's review seems to focus on 
 the negatives but they are easily ignorable IMO.
  I; ve found the first disc interesting, not quite riveting, but definitely not the boredom laden 
 struggle they make it out to be.
  the graphics are quite good, and the field screen in which you can string battles together is a 
 welcome addition -- especially since you can get monsters to fight each other.
  no, this isn't an open ended adventure many would like, but i havent needed to refer to a walkthrough 
 or guide either, and for me thats just fine.
  i hope the next 2 discs get better, because if they do, i'm probably going to up my rating to a 
 9, it's that much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  For those who have been waiting for an original Japanese RPG for the Xbox 360 there has been much 
 hype made over Blue Dragon, after playing it I can say it was worth waiting on. It still have some 
 problems with annoying dialog and blocked paths that are typical of JRPGs, but for any fans of 
 the genre wont be bothered. There aren't a whole lot of innovations, but what is changed is changed 
 for the better and make this game very fun. The first innovation is the encounter system. The enemies 
 are all visible on screen and you can choose to fight or not. Also, you can choose to fight several 
 enemies at once, giving more experience and and class skill points. Some monsters when encountered 
 together will choose to fight each other, allowing you to sit back and gain some extra experience. 
 Additionally, you characters will gain field ability skills allowing you to attract, repel, or 
 even destroy enemies without going into a battle. Of course these subtle changes work together 
 to create a very unique system.
  
  Another change was in the battle system. It is still a turn based battle system, but the twist 
 is in charged attacks. When you first start the game you will not have this ability, but it only 
 takes a little while in before you'll start using magic or the Monk class and unlock this skill. 
 Charging your attacks and spells makes them more powerful and some spells will hit a larger range 
 when charged. Charging attacks requires good timing because each move has its own meter which you 
 must hold and release at the appropriate time. If you miss you could end up getting hit or killed 
 before completing your charge. Since the enemies can charge attacks as well, there might be several 
 attacks before anyone on either side gets another turn. While playing it makes the battles seem 
 more intense and the action feel much faster paced.
  
  There are some downsides to the game. The begging is horribly designed, switching between regular 
 gameplay and pre-rendered cut-scenes about every 5 seconds. It takes about an hour to get into 
 the real game, but once you do you'll quickly start to learn to skills and level. The games main 
 characters are all children, so the game is told from o more childlike perspective, which hurts 
 the story some (in my opinion) . As far as I've gotten in the game, beginning of the 2nd disk, the 
 characters are not really well developed.
  
  All in all, the games short-comings don't prevent it from being a great-game. The visuals are well 
 done, and the music sounds reminiscent of Final Fantasy VII. The game itself feels a lot like a 
 Dragon Warrior/Dragon Quest game (and the is not only because it is animated by the same person 
 who did Dragon Quest VIII) . The improvement to the encounter and battle system fit really well 
 and do make this a new and unique experience while still holding to the classing JRPG formula. 
 Its definitely worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natsirt67
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay for this game is old school rpg, You never get board and you never get tired, If 
 you don't want to battle you can sneak past the enemy too because you can see them ,The enemies 
 aren't that strong and neither the boss fights if you level up frequantly. Graphics: The graphics 
 of this game are breathtaking and the envirmont is really wll done. The art is anime like and not 
 that shaded.
  
  Voices: The voices in english are the bad thing in Blue dragon, The are very annoying especially 
 maro's voice, The voice acting is better in japanese.
  
  Story: The story isn't that deep but it's still enjoyable and fun. The story is about 3 kids that 
 become shadow users after they swollows 3 spheres, They try to go back to there village but the 
 villain Nene is making there life pretty difficult so they are trying to defeat him to save the 
 kingdom.
  
  Well thats all, Blue dragon is an excellent game that RPG lover must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealSniper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake Blue Dragon is an rpg, and it is extremely fun, but just like every other Turn 
 based game it gets EXTREMELY repetive so if you can muscle your way through the first 10-15 hours 
 of the dreary story then it becomes one of the most fun and immersive rpgs i have played since 
 Final Fantasy 7. It feels like final fantasy with its Turn based combat and its magical feel that 
 you have power over creatures of unimaginable strength. The story however is not like final fantasy, 
 This constantly drags you along a battle against something out of DBZ, but in the end it's totally 
 worth it
  
  The colorful world and characters you see is nothing short of amazing, I couldn't help but laugh 
 when i saw maromaru with his cute muscratish looking face, and the odd looking parot on nene's 
 head. I mean i was constantly reminiscing on Dragon Ball Z, despite the fact i havn't seen the 
 show in quite some time i was constantly thinking I saw playing Budokai or something.
  
  The story for spoilers sake i won't mention much about it, other than you and your friends chase 
 after a blood thirsty villian named NENE who seems to have technology ahead (or behind?) any other 
 villiages time.
  
  But in the end Blue Dragon is Fantastic and filled with moments that remind you of the classics, 
 like chrono trigger or final fantasy... I wouldn't call this a masterpiece, but it's definitely 
 better than a nibble! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  To many, the arrival of Mistwalker was a godsend to challenge the grapple of Square-Enix on the 
 RPG market. The man behind is Hironobu Sakaguchi, whose name used to run synonymous with the famed 
 company. His reply to his un-excusable absence from the gaming scene is a work dubbed to match 
 the grandiose Final Fantasy, otherwise simply known as Blue Dragon. With the support of 2 other 
 masters in their fields- Art and Music Directorship respectively- the condensed efforts of Akira 
 Toriyama, Nobuo Uematsu and the prodigal son himself in a single game should make any gaming hearts 
 flutter with delight.
  
  The idea that gave birth to Blue Dragon was rippled from the clear waters of a Hawaii Beach. True 
 to its roots, Blue Dragon feels almost prismatic - an impression helped by the clear presentation 
 and crisp graphics. Incredulously, the modern presentation is complemented by a simple game play 
 that can only be described as antique. In what is known by many as Chrono Trigger Number 2, the 
 magician avoided dipping his wand into the tainted waters of modern RPGs, which quite regrettably, 
 seemed to have been the main criticisms of many.
  
  Following a losing battle with the Landshark that had threatened so many lives in Talta town, Shu 
 and his friends found themselves hearing voices which commanded them to swallow the mysterious 
 orbs. In true desperation, they did just that. Magical forces began to surge within their bodies, 
 and as they turned their heads they saw their new found powers- shadows. What stood in front of 
 them were a Dragon, a Minotaur and a Phoenix, all of which manifested in majestic forms. Accompanied 
 by these new comrades, the tale of Blue Dragon unfolds. While the story isnt terribly intriguing, 
 it brought the genre back to its days of absolute simplicity. Game play epitomizes as such, with 
 simple turn-based mechanics replacing the complicated engines found in many modern games. Players 
 will find it hard to complain, as the streamlined battles fit the pace of the game like a hand 
 is to a glove; a fact further helped by the pleasant absence of random battles. There is room for 
 novelty, albeit damaged by flaws. First, the shadows in the battles served as a cheerful sight, 
 if not for the occasional frame rate problem. Second, the ability to cast barriers that kills off 
 enemies off fields is a wonderful idea, if not terribly exploitable.
  
  Under the art direction of Akira Toriyama, its graphics may remind players of those in his prior 
 works- Dragon Ball and Dragon Quest. The latter were, however, not armed with the technical prowess 
 of a next-generation console system. Rendered by the powerful Xbox 360, the polished graphics of 
 Blue Dragon exudes a charm brought only possible by this unique blend of fantasy and realism. While 
 most beautiful to look at, the graphics also delivered at a consistent level. Be it the icy mountains, 
 the fiery pits or the prismatic waters, players would be hard pressed to find their save-the-world 
 agenda peppered with abrupt stoppages just so for little breaks to marvel at this artistic excellence.
 
  
  The subtlety in most of the musical tunes is disrupted by the boss music, a heart-pumping song 
 that reminds one of the early 80s Rock and Roll. Whether that stood-out song is good is easily 
 debatable; but one cant help but admire the sheer outrageousness of it. Voice acting, another 
 mainstay in modern games, was decent; although its expectable that a particular whiny voice would 
 not ring well in many gamers.
  
  If there is something such as simplicity overkill, then Blue Dragon is quite guilty of committing 
 such a crime. Although the digest-able core game play is most welcome, battles are shamefully easy 
 and forgettable. Similarly, character customization could have helped with a little more depth 
 and options. There are plans for a downloadable content for a greater difficulty on Xbox live, 
 but until then, Blue Dragon is stained. The lack of a really powerful optional boss is also a taboo 
 in the genre; Sakaguchi had broken one rule too many.
  
  While Blue Dragon has easily demonstrated that it is not the RPG powerhouse many have had expected, 
 it is still an enjoyable game at its core. The simplicity of the game could find an easy excuse 
 for itself: to allow the RPG-shy crowd of the Xbox 360 an easy get-into. To veterans, however, 
 the lack of any real difficulty would have only left them wondering what the game could have otherwise 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertimx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  I thought blue dragon would be awesome considering the game had help from the Final Fantasy creator, 
 however this game was so hyped, and didn't deliver. First let me get all the good stuff out of 
 the way. The graphics are great, sure they arn't the best, but the look good. the characters models, 
 the landscape, the enemies, everything looks good. The only complaint i have is every other reviewers 
 complaint, no emotion. thats right , very few facial expressions. This isn't to big a deal but 
 when your guy sounds happy, he doesn't look it, when someones sad, doesn't look it, there are some 
 exceptions, but mostly no emotion at all. This make's the characters seem more robotic than actual 
 people. Other than graphics there isn't much going for blue dragon. the gameplay is very dated, 
 almost every part of the combat system has already been done ( and in some done better ) in RPG's 
 in the past 10 years. that being said, the gameplay is boring and unoriginal. you click, attack, 
 repeat. sure you have some magic and some charging attacks, but the game is so easy to beat you 
 won't even need to use them most of the time. Its seems like every area you go to next was designed 
 to make the enemies weaker and weaker, eventually you level up so fast that you kill almost anything 
 in 1 hit. Another problem with the game is the story. Arguable the most important part of an RPG 
 is the story, and it's lackluster in blue dragon. a cliche bad guy terrorizes the world and your 
 cliche heroes try to stop him. each character has their own backround, but non of them are very 
 interesting and have been done many times before. If you don't care about fun gameplay, and a great 
 story and only want eye candy, then blue dragon may be worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm torn about this game. There are lots of great things to say about it, and some bad things to 
 say about it, two of which are just plain awful things.
  
  Here's the good:
  
  Graphics: Excellent. Seriously, blew me away and made my jaw drop. It's excellent animation and 
 for the most part, pretty nice art.
  
  Combat: There isn't much that's new here, but its very nicely done. It's simple, and yet has some 
 depth to it as you can modify your character through classes and combining skills/armor.
  
  General polish: This game is polished! It's very easy to tell that a lot of care went into making 
 this game as polished as possible. It shows.
  
  Sidequests: I thought the sidesquests in this game were rather fun, and challenging at times, much 
 more challenging than the main storyline (see comment below) . There aren't many of them though 
 and the majority of them are only available when you're about 80% finished the game.
  
  Here's the not so good stuff:
  
  Levelling up: is rather odd in this game. The reason being 
 that weak enemies tend to give tons of exp. points, which makes it pointless to grind out on hard 
 enemies.
  
  Difficulty: This game is EASY, far too easy. In the main story, I died twice. One of those time 
 because I was screwing around, not taking it serious. You don't have to grind for a second of this 
 game, in fact, grinding at all makes this game even boring as you can just destroy enemies without 
 even worrying. By the time I got to the end boss, he was absolutely no threat at all.
  
  The very ugly:
  
  Story: RPGS are often made or broken on their stories. This RPG has an awful 
 story and even worse execution of telling it. I was bored by the story all the way up to the 75% 
 mark. After that, it started to get a bit interesting. But overall the story is downright terrible.
 
  
  Characters: What's worse than the story are the characters. Wow are they ever terrible! The ladies 
 are the only likeable characters, and not even all that likeable. The guys are so awful and so 
 unlikeable, so cliche, generic and one has such an annoying voice I was tempted to mute many cutescenes. 
 Perhaps this is a cultural issue. Maybe Japanese people find these characters appealing, so maybe 
 I'm just not the audience for these sorts of ridiculously annoying characters. Having said that, 
 I play Japanese RPGs frequently and have not been this annoyed by characters in a long time, if 
 ever. Not only are the main characters bad, but so are the others. The children in this game act 
 more mature than the adults. The adults are like mentally challenged people while the children 
 are all the brave and mature ones, even before they get their powers . .
  
  Verdict: Worth buying? Well, that depends. If you are a Japanese rpg fan and are itching for a 
 fix, then this game is worth buying, but don't count on being intrigued by the story or characters. 
 My general suggestion is to rent this game if you have one of those places that let you go over 
 the rental paying only $1/day. Take two weeks and finish the game, then return it. If you aren't 
 really all that big of a fan of rpgs, then I'd hold off on this game. Wait for The Last Remnant 
 or perhaps Eternal Sonata or stuff by Square Enix.
  
  The game is about 25-30 hours if you plow right through the main quest and ignore other sidequests. 
 I spent 50hours doing sidequests and just exploring the world, which is beautiful. It may seem 
 as If I didn't like the game because of the things I've stated above, but I did have some fun. 
 Blue Dragon has the odd characteristic of being not so fun for the first 50% of the game, then 
 gets better and better the closer to the end of the game you get.
  Overall, a decent RPG that simply needed more work on characters and story (two core elements of 
 RPGs) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dryker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite RPG of its kind since FFIX. The way the game handles enemy encounters is brilliant, 
 fresh, and addicting. I've played through half of the game and find myself not wanting to leave 
 the field because I'm having so much fun fighting monsters and building stats ( unheard of in most 
 turn-based RPGs) , where as fights are usually a cumbersome chore one must endure in order to build 
 stats. Monster fights! Monster fights! Monster fights! Do you like hacking turrets and bots in 
 Bioshock to attack your enemies? Here you can lure certain monsters towards their sworn enemies 
 and engage them in battle to watch them tear at one another, leaving the victorious few to fight 
 you... brilliant! The cut-scenes are amazing. The voice acting is impeccable ( even if the dialogue 
 is as english-from-japanese as it can be ) . The score is one of the best I've heard in an RPG ( 
 not surprising: Nobuo ) . Where the main characters may lack flair, the enemies have it in spades, 
 i. e., murals that rip from the walls of a misty canyon to pounce on their prey, robots with awesome 
 animations, clanking metal soundeffects, and guns, and enemies, when defeated , that drop poo with 
 treasures in it! Ok, maybe not so much the latter, but still excellent enemy design with interesting 
 and engaging animations that indicate the enemies disposition, i. e., surfing on its spear to show 
 its charging an attack and knocked on its back to show that its vulnerable to just name a couple. 
 Oh, yeah, and the world map, a very important aspect of traditional RPGs in my opinion. Again, 
 awesome. Imagine miniature versions of each significant area you visit rendered in its entirety 
 as landmarks in the world map, i. e., a castle including its surrounding town, the home village 
 of one of the main characters, a giant drill machine you fight through to meet a party member, 
 all rendered exactly as it is when you enter the actual area but smaller. The only glaring flaw 
 in my opinion is the dialogue, especially considering how long it took Mistwalker to localize it. 
 The character design could have used a little more, er, something, anything, but the game as a 
 whole is a great addition to any RPG library. If you like traditional RPGs, do not miss this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this. If you bought your 360 just for violent shooters and such, then don't bother 
 even looking at this game, let alone this review. Ok. So for anyone curious about this game, I suggest 
 you at least rent it. If you like ANY RPG, most likely you willl enjoy this one. It's a pretty by 
 the numbers rpg story, and the characters are pretty cookie cutter. But there's just something about 
 them that's endearing. The graphics are awsome, and the colors and enviornments range wildley, but 
 manage to be awe inspiring. Put simpley, there one of the best aspects of this game. Enemie and monster 
 design is pretty original too. So if you like games like Final Fantasy or the fantastic Dragon Quest 
 series, this one's for you. Although if you like your rpg's hard, this may be a little easy for you. I 
 haven't died once in the game, and that's saying a lot. I'm not too spectacular at these types of 
 games. Although I did beat at least 90 percent of DQVIII in less than a week, so. Anyway. RPG fans. At 
 least rent it. You'll most likely wanna buy after playing for only an hour. Non-rpg fans, maybe check 
 it out. Its beautiful, funny, and pretty easy and accesible for all you non level grinding nerds. Although 
 if you're an achievement whore, saty far away. Played for six hours and only 70 points. Pretty tricky... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asdaprice2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Imagine the head honchos of microsoft studios (or whoever it was that developed the game) sitting 
 around the desk discussing the new RPG they were about to begin, this is what would have been said.
 
  
  Ok guys, Final Fantasy 7. We can't beat it so we'll join it. Let's get Nobuo Uematsu on the score, 
 intro must be a long arpeggiated piano and end of battle music must be the brass fanfare sound, 
 we all remember. There must be a world map, we must have a big airship to fly around in, it must 
 be three discs long and we must have a spikey haired main character who's stuck in a bit of a love 
 triangle. 
  
  I realise I may sound like I'm putting the game down, but I am not.
  Final Fantasy 7 is one of my all time favourtie games and nothing has ever come closer to that 
 experience than Blue Dragon. Ok the story is bizarre and the characters are pretty whiney, but 
 if you can get past all the kids cartoon trappings then you have a perfectly enjoyable game, and 
 it's long too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Greetings gamers. I am pleased to review Blue Dragon for you today. In Blue Dragon , you play the 
 part of a young boy who loses his family due to some catastrophic end and is then adopted by a 
 local villager. In this RPG, your characters get to use various orbs that unlock certain dragons 
 and powerful creatures. You do get a pleasent selection of various classes to play as well. Each 
 class represents a different avatar (i. e. dragon, creature) . The game's story is long and vast 
 so you will not be disappointed in finding a lengthy game. To give you an idea, this game requires 
 3 DVDs to play it. That can sort of tell you what kind of lengthy story is in this. I also recommend 
 grabbing the strategy with this game if you wish to unlock all secrets in this game.
  
  Overall, I give Blue Dragon a good score. I give this a good score because the games graphics look 
 great. The story is great and the characters all have a background that you get to unfold in this 
 wonderful game. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The previews for this game is what finally convinced me to get a 360, and for the most part what 
 i expected for this game has been met. 5 young heroes join forces, and using their power of magic 
 Shadows, they fight the evil Nene has spread over the land. During your journey you will travel 
 to various towns and meet interesting people.
  There are many aspects of this game that hail from the old days of SNES/PS1 RPG games. However 
 this game merely utilizes the old mechanics, and not necessarily revolutionizes them. while Blue 
 Dragon may not be on par with Chrono Trigger, it is still an excellent title that made me feel 
 like I was playing an old RPG game that was simply fun.
  
  Gameplay 9- Most of your time in the game will either be in battles or avoiding them. Standard 
 but fun RPG mechanics: start in a town at point A, head to point B, with a dungeon of some sort 
 and a boss in between.
  Graphics 10- Everything in the game is very high polygons. It's hard to even spot the corners. 
 The cut scenes rival a Pixar movie.
  Sound 8- The orchestration is excellent, but some of the music doesnt seem to fit the flavor of 
 the game, especially the boss music.
  Replay Value- 9 Very High- New Game + means you will be returning for more again and again. Plus 
 you can challenge yourself on the harder difficulties.
  Fun Factor- 10- Very High
  
  My Final Score- 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilVash
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Ok here is the thing. I am classic rpg fan. And this one brings back the memories of Chrono Trigger 
 which I still love playing. Well I was kinda glad and hoping. Glad because it is a good game. But 
 hoping it would be better. But I am still glad I got the game. It still fun to play hell I am still 
 on Disc 1 lol. Anyways still a classic to me. So if you die-hard fan of the classic Rpg style for 
 you it's a must buy. But if not and you still ove RPGs I still suggest you buy it and tryi it out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chianatrotos
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  great idea.... good game play... but weak story.... but 5 characters are able to fight at the same 
 moment thats a step for JRPG. the sound also is a little disappointing (why nobuo??? why???) any way 
 this game is just an first taste of hironobus team plans... lets wait for lost odyssey !!!!!! this 
 game is not a must buy but its worth the time and money ........ its also have a good shadow system 
 that allow you to upgrade you characters .... choose (assassin, monk and a lot more) classes and customize 
 the party with your own way!!!! the animated graphic looks good with a lot of colors ads the background 
 picture....
  
  the control is simple and easy .. the battles are not random (finally) so its up tou ,you&gt; if 
 you wana fight or not... we have the field skills its a little add on for the game but i think is 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ant_lotr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  When i first bought Blue dragon i was in two minds whether to like it. But after i played it for 
 the first time, i thuoght wow the is amazing! . The reason i thought this was because when i was 
 younger i used to love the pokemon games, but as you get older you sort of grow out of them (even 
 though deep down you still crave for the childish games like that) . So when i bought Blue dragon 
 the child popped out and it quenched my thirst for the kiddies games. So i come to my conclusion, 
 Blue Dragon is Pokemon but for older people still with the childish persona. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTR360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  first iam not big fan of rpg genre but blue dragon its excellent rpg have very good visuals story 
 i beat today the first dvd the graphics its very good the lighting and water effects and kids charakters 
 animations its good the backrounds its good too overall blue dragon have great graphics the story 
 and the locations its huge the battle system its classic turn basment similar grandia style not 
 final fantasy the music its good nothing special overall blue dragon its old scool classic rpg 
 if you like turn bament rpg buy this game or rent first its good choise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Sorry for the lackluster review ahead, my previous review is mysteriously missing 99% of its text 
 after submission.
  
  In short, go to a site like MetaCritic for real review scores from more than one review and PLAY 
 A GAME FOR YOURSELF TO ENJOY. I totally disagree with GameSpot's soddy review, and here's why:
 
  
  1.) The blur affects might be overone someimes, but otherwise are really nice and realistic.
 
  
  2.) I only find the character models to be a bit lifeless when te mouths are moving. Otherwise 
 the faces DO coney emotion.
  
  3.) Like other reviewers, I find the gameplay to be classic ad innovative. Charging attacks takes 
 timing and a sense of how much power you really need.
  
  4.) I don't know why people find this story to be lackluster. I find it engaging and dramatic at 
 times,
  
  5.) The difficulty level is EASY. And I'm not just saying this as a player of RPG's. IT IS EASY. 
 But that's it.
  
  6.) The world map camera is a bit annoying at times, but it's easyto navigate otherwise.
  
 
  So, please, kind gamers. DO NOT BE FOOLED. Blue Dragon is a great JRPG and a great game in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoBo_0007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Blue dragon is one of the first Japanese Rpg's I have played and i most say I am somewhat satisfied 
 by it. Although I would of liked to see more character customization rather than have the same 
 skills for every character which didnt really give you I purpose to change anyone skill set all 
 that much seeing as they all did around the same damage in the end no if they used the same shadow 
 class. Another problem I had with the game is that I felt the story could of been a lot better. 
 I would of liked it if the story started off more with the end game events rather than the story 
 at the beginning of the game which are boring and I found i didnt really care about. I just didnt 
 seem to be able to connect with the characters at all because the story just did not go deep enough, 
 but overall I was fairly happy with the game and I hope this is the first of many RPG's to come 
 to the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is what you could class as one the first next generation JRPG's. Created by an ensemble 
 dream team of the genre, surely this title should be a measure of perfection that no others can 
 reach? Well no, not quite.
  
  There's always seemed to be two different class of title in the JRPG genre. Games which are primarily 
 story driven and others which are a pure test of patience level grinding. Everybody interested 
 in JRPG's has a preference of one style over the other. Blue Dragon almost without question falls 
 into the latter category. This isn't to say there is no story in Blue Dragon, just that it's so 
 predictable, ill-written and by the book that in no point during the games 60 hour plus span will 
 it really put you to the edge of your seat. In-fact, the vagueness is such a problem at times that 
 during the story you won't quite understand why certain events take place or why characters act 
 the way they do. The story also plays it very safe &amp; simple in terms of storyboard. No deeply 
 complex, intertwining narrative here. It's certainly not a Kojima script.
  
  Gameplay wise there's no real time MMO-esque battle system ala FFXII or any of that nonsense. However 
 the gimmick is that rather than equip weapons or armour the main characters use their magical shadows 
 to fight for them. While this looks very pretty in crisp 720p goodness, the level of detail in 
 the characters is almost non-exsistent. Rather than scales and scars and other such goodies that 
 you'd wish (and expect) to see on these menacing shadow creatures. Instead they look more like 
 shiny balloon animals that clownshoes at a shopping mall would make. Even worse that the character 
 art itself is the severe framerate slowdown whenever a particle effect comes into the equation. 
 While not game wrecking, it certainly underwhelms the whole experience and makes you wonder what 
 exactly the developers did outside of record English &amp; French dialogue in the last 12 months 
 since its Japanese release. The characters all level up in class systems as they fight. All the 
 usual classes you'd expect are here; Fighter, Assassin, White Mage etc. Despite the game manual 
 telling you otherwise, essentially to form any kind of effective unit you'll want to roll out the 
 genre norm of physical tanks in front and magic healers at the back. As only a few skills are of 
 any real use in the game you're going to be leveling up at least 3 characters in exactly the same 
 way which proves to be quite dull and slow paced.
  
  As no weapons or armour are involved due to the characters not actually fighting as people, customisation 
 is offered in terms of accessories. Equipping the different accessories changes stat differentials 
 and some also come added with status effects which come into play with the larger boss fights. 
 The accessories however makes no change to the characters appearance and the sheer number of them 
 (over 200) which anybody can freely use without restraint (at least upto 3 at a time) make the 
 reward of finding or buying them fairly non-exsistant. In another game while you might get the 
 visceral excitement of seeing your character waving his brand new shiny sword about here you having 
 nothing, not even a new attack animation. So as well as a weak story, the lack of customisation 
 or reward makes it a very hard game to enjoy from a grinding perspective too.
  
  On a positive note, the voice acting is actually rather good. With only a few bad apples in the 
 bunch of voice actors. Having played it through in French the lip-syncing is rather good and only 
 the character Kluke seemed to under-deliver every single line given to her. This doesn't help that 
 the dialogue is awful to start with and some characters should never have been created (Marumaro) 
 but it saves the story from being a complete distaster. The musical score unfortunatly is very 
 underwhelming and lacking variety. This is all despite the acclaimed Nobuo Uematsu being the composer. 
 It's almost as if he used all his rejected final fantasy scores for this one.
  
  Despite such a dream team being responsible for the game it seems it's a crime of money over passion. 
 Obviously money was thrown at the 3 big names involved to make this game purely aimed at winning 
 over the Japanese market at the 360's launch. However I don't think anyone's heart was really fully 
 involved as the story, the artwork and the music are all very underwhelming and under-par at best. 
 If it wasn't for such a shortage of this genre on the 360, it'd be really hard to recommend this 
 game to anybody considering the severely unbalanced ratio of time vs reward. However until we can 
 see how Eternal Sonata fairs it's certainly more appealing that Enchanted Arms was, for what that's 
 worth to anyone anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Earth Defense Force was boring, bland and uneventful. I haven't imported since. Then it came to 
 the US! Great, now theUS gamers hate it. When I saw the cover on blue dragon I had a flashback 
 to FF: Tactics. This prompted me to purchase the game. My faith and trust in Japan has been almost 
 fully restored, I am still waiting for my Japan version of Trusty Bells, so it'll take some time.
 
  
  But any way about the game:
  
  Characters:
  You got a normal bunch here, The Tough Dumb One, The Smart weak one, and the girl. Not much to 
 explore there. But NeNe is a demon that wants to destroy the world. He's old, but like solid snake, 
 he's badass.
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing to gawk at here, but nothing like Hour of Victory graphics.
  
  Controls:
  The controls 
 are different something you need to get used to.
  
  Story: The story has alot of mini stories that alternate with the bigger story.
  
  I'm willing 
 to admit:
  I am still on the 2nd disc.
  
  Besides:
  You got FF11 and some stupid Japanese like RPG on the 360, this is the only good RPG on the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanmkl
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first of all, I had high expectations for this game because: c'mon, it's Hironobu Sakaguchi. 
 There are a few things, in particular, that I look for in an RPG: story, exploration, challenge. 
 Of these three I only found one-exploration. The amount of exploration is good and when you get 
 the mechat it really makes you feel like you can go anywhere. The graphics are pretty nice, but 
 nothing spectacular. That, on the other hand is irrelevent, because I don't think graphics matter. 
 I just thought, since it was there I would throw it out there, but it won't affect the score much. 
 Music is very nice. I actually think that is one of the nicest things about the game and music 
 does tend to make the gameplaying experience much more enjoyable. Sound effects and voices were 
 a little annoying at times, especially coming from Shu and Marumaro. But, I've heard a lot worse. 
 Probably the thing that irritates me the most is the lack of challenge. I loved how the game has 
 various points in the story that involve little mini-games to further it along, but they weren't 
 challenging. In fact, there were many puzzle-like points that would have been much more effective 
 if they were more difficult to get through. The story doesn't need to be terribly complex or original 
 in order for the game to be good, but believe me, in an RPG story should take center stage. If 
 the other aspects that I think matter were good, story could be overlooked. I also think that the 
 replay is not very high because there are virtually no lengthy side quests. Overall, I think BD 
 was a nice attempt at an old school RPG, but still seemed to lack the flare that made old school 
 RPGs great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeilBarnett
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  I've just started playing this game and first impressions are not good on this one. The game starts 
 slowly and after spending an hour on it the game doesn't seem to want to speed up.
  
  The main character appears to be a 6 year old kid who calls everything b*****d, this is completely 
 unwarranted and unnecessary. The rest of the dialogue isn't much better and it's like watching 
 a badly dubbed movie.
  
  The game plays in small scenes, so you play for 5 minutes, perhaps beat up a poo shaped monster 
 (yes fokes they are called that in the game) then the game either loads another scene or a film 
 scene that you sit back and yawn as it plays through.
  
  You might think perhaps its a game for young children. But it comes with a 12+ game rating. I think 
 the game is very confused what it wants to be.
  
  The game is very disappointing so far... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me straight foward to this game. I'll admit it that i was one of the many RPG hardcore fans 
 outhere. So when i'll played this game, for me it seen something did not enough to make this game 
 feel great. Firstly, the graphic is detailed and good, (Come with 3 DL-DVD) , but the cookies character 
 did not satisfied me very much. It's similar to DBZ characters because it were created by Akira 
 Toriyama. Next is the gameplay. For me the gameplay in the Blue Dragon are classics and the powers 
 also are not interesting as FF series or any jap RPG series. For the first time I'll played this 
 game, I'll be a little dissappointed because the character must cast shadow to fight the enemies 
 but not fight them with weapons. It seen a little dull when they fight and mostly boring. And other 
 thing, there are no super powers until last DVD when you want to finish the storyline (that sucks) . 
 The storyline also are not interesting because of the characters setting. I'll hope next installment 
 of Mistwalker RPG will be the best and not like this one. I'll admit it i'll want a FF series on 
 the Xbox 360 soon because 360 has lack of great jap RPG games to nowdays. For user outhere i'll 
 suggest you still support Mistwalker for the future of jap RPG on the Xbox 360. Rent this game 
 if you want to try. If not wait for the Lost Odessey, i'll sure the gameplay and storyline far 
 to great than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The game is big, wide, and has plenty to do and the new fighting features add a little extra to 
 the game. Its good how you can customize your character to suit your style of play and add fighting 
 or defence points. Although some features of the game is good there is alot missing from this which 
 games like Final Fantasy had. Such as the intense story and the fact that you dont care about the 
 characters as much. And the effort you put into fighting the bad guys, in my opinion its a bit 
 too easy in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbu85
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I wonder if they just didn't sit down and say lets take what every one liked about all the epic 
 RPGs and some how tape them together. While It wasn't all bad, its just a romp in the old park 
 that you remember visiting as a little kid. It did bring a smile to my face to have the feel of 
 Chrono Trigger / Cross playing again but in the end it just felt like I've done this before. After 
 playing for a few hours I just slapped Final Fantasy VI in my PS 3 and started that again. In the 
 end all I can say is its fun to go down memory lane once in a while but don't try to bring the 
 past back. Some of us left it for a reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SopranosFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Whoever reviewed this for Gamespot has lost their mind or something. This is not the best game 
 ever by any means and does not deserve a 10 or really even a 9.5, but it is better than a mediocre 
 game and deserves higher than a 5 or 6. But that seems to be the problem with this game either 
 you like it and give it an 8+ or you don't and give it a 6 or below. This game has enjoyable graphics 
 and nice music. I really hope this sparks some more turn based RPG's. Oblivion type games are OK 
 but for some reason I just don't connect with the game in the same way I do as with Blue Dragon 
 and Final Fantasy type games. If you like older turned based RPG's then this is the best one in 
 a while, if you have never tried this type of game then you should at least try it, but honestly 
 everyone will not love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were beautiful I love the gameplay the turn based system reminds me of final fantasy. 
 Of course everyone has their own opinion but I think this is a really great game can't always go 
 by gamespot's score. I've played it in english and next japanese if you like JRPGs then this is 
 the game for you I've never seen the anime of Blue dragon but after playing the game I'm intrested 
 in seeing it. I think the only thing that I don't like is the fact that it say xbox live on the 
 box but you can't actually go on xbox live to play it that is the only flaw of the game to me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker580
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  The first time that I heard about this game, i got really excited. The concept behind having shadows 
 instead of the regular fighters seemed like an interesting idea that could have worked very well. 
 Yet after playing, it just seemed like i was playing a run of the mill rpg that had nothing that 
 exceptionally stood out. The beginning semmed interesting but i found myself only playing to level 
 my characters up and that the story at hand was not appealing to me at all. It might be an ok game 
 to rent if you are really bored, but if you want a good solid rpg, look for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabrialTehall
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Simply one of the best JRPGs Iv played sence FF9. I love the characters so far, and the story keeps 
 getting thicker and thicker everytime I complete a part, the comebat is very fun, I love the music 
 andthe twist on the outside travel is much needed. So if you like the old school feel that you 
 got when you were just a kid, pick this one up and play it through, oh ya, as I remember all the 
 FF games started out a bit slow, but pick right up after a couple of hours. Thank you Sakaguchi 
 for creating this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovebill
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  So far, I wonder why am I playing this? I like turned based, and not so much out there for 360, 
 so I guess I like it? On the whole, the story is what really lacks. No setup, no background, no 
 reason to care one way or the other. I like the play of the game just fine, the controls work pretty 
 well, movment is nice, there is just no magic to any of it. No Final Fantasy, No Secret of Mana 
 (or whatever that was called) . No early days ultima, just blah. I wonder why I played last night, 
 and why I will play it again tonight. Hmm, so for the reason that I am still playing it, i give 
 it a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingdom_Key106
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  When it was originally announced some time ago, Blue Dragon managed to gather up quite a bit of 
 hype for it's release. Backed by some of the most acclaimed names in the RPG genre, Blue Dragon 
 could have easily have been one for the record books, but unfortunately it just doesn't quite live 
 up to those expectations. Thats not to say it's a bad game though, because it definately isn't. 
 Everything in the game is done amazingly well. The graphics are beautiful and the battle system 
 is great. It's what missing that hurts the experience, and what's missing is a story. The game 
 kicks off with you in the role of Shu, a young boy who never seems to mellow out. He's the head 
 strong boy who never gives up and is always fighting for what he believes in. Accompanying him 
 are Kluke and Jiro, his two childhood friends who seem to be just along for the ride and the occasional 
 offering of advice. Sound familiar yet? Thats cuz it is. Blue Dragon does nothing to differentiate 
 itself from all the other games before it and fails to create an innnovative experience by any 
 standards.
  
  Luckily the high level of polish and care make up for the otherwise bland plot line. Blue Dragon 
 proves that a game doesn't have to be photo- realistic to have amazing graphics. The detail here 
 is breath taking and the cut scenes in paticular are absoluetly amazing to look at, though some 
 times the game seems slow down or drop in frame rate. Like wise the combat is fun and addictive. 
 The ability to mix and match your characters powers and skills provides a wide range of possiblites 
 in battle. You'll never feel that you're being pushed into a specific class or job and the freedom 
 in this area of gameplay is practically unlimited. Better yet is the ability to string together 
 battles during your time on the field. The more succesive battles you participate in, the stronger 
 the benefits are after each encounter. For example, by taking part in four battles at once your 
 chracters will each recieve a temporary boost of power between each encounter. This ability makes 
 fighting a lot simpler, and more streamlined.
  
  By the time you've finished it, Blue Dragon may not seem like a memorable experience but it certainly 
 isn't a bad one either. Plagued by some major issues, the gameplay is going to be the biggest draw 
 on this title so it's best that you rent it before you buy it, so you can decide for yourself if 
 it's enough to motivate you to complete it. Other than that this title is simply a nice piece of 
 eye candy for all the graphics fanatics out there, with a few nice additions added in. While it 
 may not be for the record books, it's fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappywhite2001
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo of Blue Dragon months ago, I was extremely disappointed, and hoped that 
 the game would improve by the time it hit shelves.
  
  It didn't.
  
  There are few things good about this game. The fighting system is cookie-cutter, the story is abysmally 
 weak, the characters are the same ones you have seen in dozens of games before. The game has no 
 dynamic to it, and you will find yourself grinding through the battles with the same moves and 
 combos for the entirety of the game. I was extremely disappointed by this title, and sincerely 
 hope that the 360 can, at some point, get a good RPG to rival the Sony deadlock on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonbattousai
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of classic RPGs such as Chrono Trigger, EarthBound, Final Fantasy, then this is 
 a game a fan would want to pick up. Blue Dragon goes back to the time where RPGs were not all in 
 depth with many mechanics. The game plays out like a combination of Final Fantasy's job system, 
 where you can customize your character with a handful of jobs such as Assasin or Gaurdian. You 
 can level up the jobs and switch to another anytime and carry over some abilities so if you want 
 to play a character as a White Magic user with some Black Magic or an Assasin with Monk, you can 
 go ahead to fix your characters to that desire of choice. The game's turn base is close to Final 
 Fantasy X's system, but the character's turn can change depending on a gauge that you fill up to 
 power up your attack. The game also has a Limit Break function that is unlocked later in the game 
 called Corpereal, which is pretty fun to watch. The story is a bit hard to explain at the point 
 I'm at (close to ending Disc 1) but as far as I can tell, an old alienish creature named Nene is 
 out to terrorize the planet causing pain and suffering to the villagers and it's up to you to stop 
 him. I don't know if there is more to the story, but so far it doesn't sound all that bad. The 
 graphics are pretty nice. They are crisp and clean and look like something that you would do for 
 next generation anime designs. The game is 3 discs long because of the many cinematics put into 
 the game so pretty much you got a game with lots and lots of beautiful cutscenes.
  
  Characters are done by Akira Toriyama, who is notoriously known for DragonBall and character designs 
 for Dragon Quest and Chrono Trigger. Expected from a mangaka, his designs on humans never change 
 and you may recognize some of the looks to be nastolgic to some of the DragonBall characters. A 
 good example is later on in the game, you may meet someone with similiar hairstyle as Super Saiyan 
 3 Goku. Other than that, the monster designs are almost related to Dragon Quest's and there are 
 some interesting designs you may recogize from other drawings done by Toriyama. Character voices 
 are pretty good, however the designs don't show much emotion. It's rarely seen, but the voices 
 give you a good idea what they are feeling. Marumaro might get on your nerves, but it's understandable 
 that the voice is suppose to match the personality of his tribe. Music in the game is really good. 
 Other than the boss theme, Eternity, Uetmatsu, a composer many Squaresoft fans may know, did a 
 great score for the game and have some interesting beats and sounds. It's recommended to check 
 out the soundtrack whereever at. Finally, one of the themes of the game is finding items and sometimes 
 they can be found in poo left behind from enemies.... sounds really nasty, but pretty funny. The 
 game sponsers alot of quirkiness from Poo Snakes to fire and ice dogs fighting each other, this 
 game has some weird quirks put in. Overall, this game is a must play if you are looking for fun 
 old school RPGs on your Xbox 360. It's filled with many things that make you go back to a point 
 in time where you can just play a simple RPG without having to worry about this and that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Good
  
  Characters are endearing right from the start of the game; games storyline is involving without 
 being too complicated; visuals and presentation are top-notch; Uematsus score is superbly composed; 
 battle system offers a lot of strategy without seeming or feeling overwhelming; small features 
 here and there make the game feel unique; lots of humorous references to poo.
  
  Bad
  
  Boss battle music doesnt fit well; manga shadows are iffy; lots of humorous references to poo.
 
  
  Story
  
  Anyone whos played a Japanese role-playing game in the last decade knows how things work. Huge 
 overarching plot lines that could easily pass themselves off as an epic novel with aplomb and then 
 some  and characters that are deep enough to give the Pacific Ocean a run for its money. Sure, 
 thats a good thing to have when the story is deep  the characters need to be deep as well  but 
 when you have a game where the story is lighthearted with a just a touch moral involvement, the 
 characters need to be the same. Thats not to say that the story in Blue Dragon is shallow  the 
 contrary actually  but it isnt so complicated that it wont appeal to family audiences either. 
 And to be honest, it feels like this is the audience that Sakaguchi and the developers at Artoon 
 were shooting for. Whereas his previous works were geared towards the late teenage crowd, Blue 
 Dragon comfortably and easily directs itself to the entire family, whether its through its endearing 
 characters and their situations, or its storyline that just barely goes deep enough to get the 
 player involved without overloading them with so much information that its hard for them to follow.
 
  
  Blue Dragon begins with bang actually; a scene that will most assuredly interest those in the family 
 that are interested in Japans anime art style. Taking place in the village of Talta, it seems 
 that once every year for the past ten years violet clouds have appeared overhead and a huge beast 
 called the Land Shark has terrorized the townsfolk. Well, this year it just so happens that Shu 
 and his friend Jiro have come up with a plan to put the beast in its place. Add a bright eyed young 
 girl named Kluke and a few unfortunate mishaps, and youve got the beginning to Blue Dragons storyline.
 
  
  Blue Dragon never gets much more serious than this, but thats to the games credit actually. The 
 story is incredibly easy to latch onto and follow, and even though it doesnt take much interest 
 in fleshing out some of the side details, it does enough to keep you hooked. The writing in the 
 game is exceptionally well paced and quirky  its hard to get bored here  theres a lot of tiny 
 little fragments of dialogue that will have you laughing or chuckling at the personalities of the 
 characters.
  
  And here we have another strong point of Blue Dragons storyline, the characters themselves. For 
 the most part there are only six main characters in the game  five of them being your main characters 
  and the sixth being the villain, but they have interesting personalities and youll never get 
 tired of them. For instance, Shu tends to be cocky when rushing into situations and its amusing 
 when his fellow friends badger him about it and he reacts. Or a character youll meet later on 
 that could be the spitting image of the alien Han Solo shot in the original Star Wars. While hes 
 not a main character, even his personality is so well defined that its hard not to be impressed 
 by the trouble that the writers went to make all of the games characters unique.
  
  Outside of all of these strong points, its worth noting that the game makes heavy use of references 
 towards all kinds of poo. Whether its the names of several monsters like King Poo Snake or Stone 
 Poo Snake or the fact that treasure dropped by monsters comes in the form of little piles of poo 
  which also go *squish squish* when you loot them, the game comes up with all kinds of insane 
 and oddball ways to use the word. For the parents out there that may take this as reason to have 
 their kids steer clear of Blue Dragon, it should also be noted that all of these references are 
 also done with pretty tasteful tact. The mentions of poo are never outright obscene or rude.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Blue Dragon doesnt do much to change whats always been the tried and true 
 Japanese role-playing formula. The battles are turned based and menu driven and the spells are 
 your standard fare. What it does do however is include a few extra features that make the game 
 feel a little less like those games around it.
  
  One of the most interesting is the ability to use field skills to engage multiple enemy parties 
 at the same time. Much like classic games like Chrono Trigger, you can see the enemies on the field 
 screen before you actually do battle with them. This makes is much easier to avoid battles and 
 eliminates a lot of the frustration caused by random battles. But supposed youre running through 
 a dungeon and two enemy parties pop up around you. By pressing the right trigger on the controller, 
 youll bring up a green ring around your character and a list to the right of the screen. At this 
 point, you can select both of the enemies and choose to fight both of their parties at the same 
 time. Not only does this let you take them both out faster, it lets you get some nifty bonuses 
 while youre actually doing battle.
  
  Once a battle starts in Blue Dragon, things go much like any other turn based role-playing game 
 would. You choose your attacks and spells from a menu and then watch your characters perform them 
 against the enemy. At the top of the screen the attack order is displayed for everyone in the battle 
 including the enemies. Another difference between Blue Dragon and its peers though is the Charge 
 system. Some attacks  and all spells  can be Charged to reduce the amount of MP they use and 
 increase their damage. This appears as a bar at the top of the screen under the turn around with 
 an orange section either in the middle or the far right. Lines will appear at points in the bar 
 representing the trade-off that the Charge system presents. While Charging will indeed reduce the 
 MP you use to use that skill and increase its damage output, it will also usually mean you will 
 have to wait longer to cast it if you go for the orange sweet spot. This presents some mild strategy 
 to Blue Dragon  do you wait for a more powerful attack or do you simply do the standard attack 
 which might have its own advantages?
  
  Once the first collection of enemies is gone, a roulette feature will appear on the screen before 
 the next group of bad guys comes in. This roulette will have rewards like increased attack power 
 or increased agility; sometimes it will even increase your max health for the remainder of the 
 battle. In reality, this will almost never determine the outcome of your battle set, its an interesting 
 feature to include and at the end of the battle, the more enemy groups you fought, the larger your 
 combo reward  which grants you an increase in experience and skill reward.
  
  The heart of Blue Dragons gameplay is its class system. Theres a variety of classes available 
  most of them you have to unlock as you progress through the game  and you can easily switch 
 between them at any time as long as youre not in a battle. As you win battles, you class will 
 gain skill points which essentiall work as experience, but for your class. When you reach a certain 
 number of skill points, your class rank goes up. At certain class ranks, you gain new skills. You 
 can generally only have three class skills equipped at any given time  they do things like allow 
 all characters in the party to share your attack rating or let you use more than one item in a 
 turn  so theres a little thinking involved in choosing which skills you want to have and the 
 tradeoffs between the various effects. Theres a class that lets you have more than three skills 
 slots, but the tradeoff is that this class cant use any fancy skills like the rest can.
  
  As for actually exploring in Blue Dragon, its what you would expect from this kind of game. Theres 
 a large world world map for moving between locations  or you can use warp points, which have to 
 be unlocked as you reach them  and even on the world map youre able to see the enemies instead 
 of engaging in random battles. Enemies tend to be more plentiful on the world map, so youll have 
 to be a little bit more suave to avoid them. Theres also quite a few treasure quests scattered 
 around the world map, so exploring every nook and cranny is rewarded with treasure that might be 
 pretty useful. Once you make it to a location, youre given the pretty standard Japanese role-playing 
 game field map.
  
  Villages are scattered with houses and people will engage in idle conversation with and the people 
 that rarely have an actual task for you will keep it rather simple. Each village tends to have 
 the same kinds of shops lying around; an accessory shop, item shop, and spell shop  and its fairly 
 simple to find them all. As for dungeons, these maps tend to be a little more complex, consisting 
 of winding passages and a few puzzles here and there. The game rewards exploration and patience 
 in these areas as well, as theyre chock full of hidden treasure chests. Most dungeons have a boss 
 at the end, which require the player to think a little during the fight to get by them.
  
  Even though the game rewards these dungeons explorations though, theres not really too much to 
 them. While the environments are well detailed and colorful, they mostly consist of running through 
 passages looking for either the way out or extra treasure. There are a few dungeons here and there 
 that are multi-layered, which adds some variety to the mix, but even those essentially still force 
 you to go from point A to point B. Every dungeon in the game follows the same formula and while 
 you might be a little bit weary enough towards the end, the game always seems to have an uncanny 
 knack to throw in the end before you want to throw the towel in.
  
  Presentation
  
  Graphically, Blue Dragon pushes the Xbox 360 to its limits. The game makes heavy use of antialiasing 
 techniques and depth of field, and because of this the game does choke on the framerates in a few 
 instances during the game. The anime art style is incredibly smooth the entire way through and 
 even though the game makes heavy use of pre-rendered cut scenes throughout its campaign, theres 
 isnt a whole lot of difference between them and the actual game. All of the characters are detailed 
 and unique in their body styles and their animations never look choppy or out of place. The environments 
 themselves, while looking too big for the characters sometimes, are all superbly detailed and colorful, 
 and theres not one single instance of the game making use of blurry or low resolution textures. 
 To the games extra credit, the developers seemed to have wonderful use of modern texture mapping 
 techniques because while Blue Dragon does use them, it doesnt suffer from the shiny effect that 
 many other games that use this technique do.
  
  It should be noted though that the shadows in Blue Dragon are of questionably quality. While the 
 suffice in most scenes, its easy to notice that theres something a little odd about them, primarily 
 in the way that the developers chose to smooth them out. Artistically speaking, it seems that the 
 developers where going for sort of a manga shading look and while this deserves a little credit 
 for merit on their part, in reality it didnt work too well and is more distracting than good looking.
 
  
  On the audio side of things, players can find joy in the fact that the games score was composed 
 by the famous Nobuo Uematsu. As usual, his score is on top form here and nothing feels out of place 
 in the game world. The game sounds brilliant in a surround sound setup and the music makes the 
 game feel that much more immersing. Character voices are superb in any language, although most 
 players will most likely find themselves listening to the Japanese audio track for the full effect.
 
  
  The one piece of the games audio presentation that doesnt fit though is the boss battle music. 
 Its hard to describe what it sounds like and players will ultimately have to make their own decisions 
 about whether they hate it or like it, but it doesnt fit well with the theme of the game at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1SFGiantsFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I have to laugh at the reviewers of certain games. First they'll say that the game is 
 too ambitious and you'll see reviews where they say that it's The Same Old Thing . This is what 
 most of the reviews are saying about Blue Dragon . Why is it that every single new console RPG 
 is judged by innovation ? Why does it have to have a new battle system or by some silly grid that 
 is more complicated than the last game?
  
  Now, I've played Bioshock, the latest First Person Shooter that's received almost perfect marks 
 by just about every game publication in the world. Yes, Bioshock looks great, and is lots of fun 
 to play, but to be honest with you, it's the exact same game as a hundred FPS before it. Bioshock 
 is nothing but the original Doom, with much prettier graphics. And what is the most anticipated 
 game of the year.... Halo 3. Yet another FPS that is no doubt more of the same type of game play 
 with luxurious visuals. And don't get me started on Real Time Strategy games.... the same thing 
 applies.
  
  So, Blue Dragon isn't the most innovative, and the voice acting is on the cheesy side, but it does 
 play great and it brings me back to the old school style of game play that I really love. Not every 
 RPG has to be on par with Final Fantasy, and as far as I'm concerned FFXII is a great game, but 
 was rated too high. I'm sure that even before Halo 3 is released, the folks here at Game Spot have 
 their 9.6 markers out, just because it's Halo. (Can you believe that Enchanted Arms actually got 
 a higher score, according to Gamespot, than Blue Dragon? If you've ever played EA, you know just 
 how painful it was. A Totally Wrong and Unbelievable score of 7.1, while Blue Dragon has to settle 
 for 6.0!)
  
  So, my recommendations to people.... if you like old school, than pick up Blue Dragon and enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  If you have been a fan of Chrono and Final Fantasy series than this game is definatley for you. 
 It has every good quality a good turnbased rpg should have. Good story, Charector Custimization 
 options and alot of traveling. Its a really good game from start to finish and I was sad to see 
 everyone else gave it such crappy marks, it deserved better. The game has an awsome sound track 
 and alothough it seems kinda childish, its not at all. it has relatively hard parts in it and deals 
 somwhat with more mature storyline's.
  The reason some people dislike this is because it is not for the FPS fan. The gameplay is almost 
 all strategy and there is alot of video watching wich I like but, I can see why some people didn't 
 like that. Pretty much the game a nice and long old school type turn based rpg. I personally think 
 its great but, i have alawys been a fan of turn based rpgs.
  
  If you're a fan of those games then this game will promise to be exellent for you.
  If you perfer 
 platformers, FPS or any other type of game like that I would rent first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longbough
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I remember being blown away by FF7 on PS. Maybe I'm the audience to which Blue Dragon is directed. 
 It's not as long or expansive as the former game but it does have that nifty turn-based gameplay 
 complete with cinematics - albeit with jazzed-up graphics. But is that such a bad thing? I don't 
 think so. The monster design and maps are imaginative and beautiful. But by its nature can't escape 
 comparison with FF7: The story is decent but not as grand as FF7 yet not intrusive to the gameplay 
 either. Nothing about Blue Dragon really disappoints. If FF7 is opera then Blue Dragon is a modern 
 2 hour CG movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfella411
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  If you are looking at this game you basically need to ask yourself 1 major question. Do I want 
 an old school rpg, or do I want something brings a lot of new and innovative things to the table? 
 
  
  So far this game has filled all my desires for more of a traditional rpg type game. The turn base 
 system reminds me of Final Fantasy VII which brought me into the this genre. No random battles 
 allows you to choose your battles as you see fit, or just work on exploring the lush world created.
 
  
  The small gripes I have about this game is:
  1. The first couple of hours can be kind of a pain to get through
  2. Sometimes while you are 
 running around the camera goes blurry, which gives me a headache.
  3. Things sometimes do seem a little too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Game Spot you yet agian Fail with your Reviews.. Once agian you are Very critical of Everything 
 the game did bad but overlooked the many many many great things about this game.. Blue Dragon Was 
 the one game that was suppose to sell the System.. Since Xbox 360 did terrible as far as sells 
 many Japanesse People Bought this game for the soul Purpose to play this game.. Blue Dragon had 
 a Exclusive 360 for them that had a core 360, 5 figures of the main characters, Blue Dragon Face 
 Plate, and a Calander.. and guess what.. it sold the Most Copies then any other 360 game in the 
 region.. over 80,000 Copies were sold in the First 4 days.. 30,000 of them bought the system to 
 go along with the game! now it almost 200,000 Copies sold.. Americans are picking up this game 
 to play one of the best RPG's Ever and the Best RPG for the 360 by far. Blue Dragon Also has its 
 own T. V. Anime Show comming to America i believe (already there in Japan) and having s Blue Dragon 
 Sequel comming!
  
  Blue Dragon has so many great Video Game Peoples working on this game.. the People From Mistwalker 
 and Artoon.. and Microsoft really put out something cool! its like a blockbuster movie with all 
 the top Actors, writes, and Directors.. and this game has and All Star Calibur Cast starting with..
 
  Hironobu Sakaguchi The Prestident Of Mistwalker Game Productions that was the game producer, and 
 scenario writer.. You all Know him from his time With Square Enix Where he Co Founded the company 
 and Making The Final Fantasy Games, Kingdom Hearts, Chrono Trigger, and Super Mario RPG! Then The 
 next All Star on the list is.. Akira Toriyama who is the Character Designer for Blue Dragon.. He 
 is Known for His Works in the DBZ Series Writing and Drawing the series.. also he did the Characters 
 in the Dragon Quest Series and the Chrono Trigger Series.
  The The Final Man on our List..
  Nobuo Uematsu who wrote the Music For this game.. He is known for his work Of Music for the Final 
 Fantasy Series and some of Chrono Trigger and he is also going to be doing work in the New Smash 
 Bros game.
  All Great at what they do and they all shine in this masterpiece.
  
  The Story of Blue Dragon goes like this.. your Village is attack by the Land shark.. so Shu, Kluke 
 and Jiro locals from the Village try to fend off the land shark.. however they go into the ground 
 and realize it was ship not a Shark that has been terrorizing the Village.. So the Three Teens 
 go to find the one who is resbonsible for this an Old Man Named Nene who has Plaqued the region 
 with all kinds of things like Pleagues, and Tsunami's for exmaple.. So after you get your butts 
 kick by his mighty power. and voice Tells you to Swallow Balls of Light they have No choice but 
 to Swallow them.. giving them a buring sensation and then having the Power to use Magic from there 
 creature Shadows They have So much more power then The Players that its the only thing you use 
 in battles.. each shadow is unique and each user and they reflect the users personalities.. The 
 Dragons Look So cool and each are well designed By Toriyama.. Each with personallities and Skills.. 
 As You Progress through the Game you Meet Marumaro a little Deeve who is the comic Relif.. and 
 Zola the Chick mechanary who is also a skilled Swords woman.. She is calm and is the most mature 
 of the group. Shu has the Dragon Shadow (his is off the name of the game) Zola has the Killer Bat 
 Shadow, Marumaro has the Saber Tooth Tiger Dragon, Jiro has the Minotaur Shadow and Kluk has the 
 Phoenix Shadow
  
  The Battling System is this game is Simple but so great.. with your standard turn based RPG game.. 
 just shows you what RPG's Should be.. you use all Magic attacks along with Melee attacks by your 
 shadow.. They have many different types like Shine, Gound, Fire, Water, Grass, and Shadow.. there 
 are many different types you can use this and finding the creatures weak points or Type Weakness 
 is the path to victory.. A Cool feature in this game is you get to charge your attacks.. The longer 
 you Charge the more power but more time you have to wait. this creates a whole different stratagy 
 of winning battles.. There is also a red spot on the charge Meter.. Hit it and you get something 
 better like No MP used or Crital hit or something.. There is also off Feild Attacks you can use 
 that can be very helpful from advoiding annoying Poo snakes. seriously poo snakes.. also the only 
 RPG i know where you can search in Poo for Gold.. be sure you where gloves..
  
  The Graphics is Beautiful.. stunning. Blue Dragon is The best Looking RPG ever made.. The cut scenes 
 are top teir and the regular gameplay is very nice as well. with great colors, textures, and lighting 
 effects make this game unrealisticly real! the characters faces are impossibly smooth and the Cutscenes 
 agian are breath taking.. However it does Impact the Frame Rate from time to time but its not really 
 a big deal. Once agian critics will look so much into that one Minor flaw and be very critical 
 of it but they forget the rest of it to an extent..
  
  The Music Agian is great.. you have a sound track out for all the songs! lots of the Music is great 
 like The Overworld exploring song and the infiltration of nene's Ship Music.. and also yes i said 
 it.. the Boss Music!! i actually like it.. it sets a tone for something different plus Deep Purple 
 does the Part! its one of the things that most people hate.. am i the only one??
  
  the Game has over 40 hours of gameplay expanded over 3 disc.. the first 360 game to do that! there 
 is also side quest and other things you can do after the game.. and the achievements are very hard 
 to complete if you want to complete them it will put in a lot of hours and thats value for there.. 
 60 bucks a normal 360 game but with lots of bang its worth it!
  
  Overall This is a game i have been wanting for a long time.. yes I hated Final Fantasy.. i don't 
 know why my friend was really into it and he tryed to get me into it but i could'nt it just was 
 boring for me and i did not like characters i guess.. i can't really say the reason just something 
 about it.. i also was not a big fan of Dragon Quest either. i liked Chrono Triger for the SNES 
 but i almost forgot all about the game entirly! i have to play it agian.. but anyways Blue Dragon 
 is Something that Xbox 360 desprately needed. a great RPG and with a Sequel comming and possible 
 other games it looks to be the Xbox's Final Fantasy and you can count me in on getting the games 
 when they come out.. I just like this game! and with sequels possibly having more characters and 
 more dragons the sky is the limit for the next game!
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Great Simple Battle system.. just like its suppose to be and with a large Map and Many 
 Villages and missions like a Shooter and protection mission shake it up a bit
  Graphics: Simply amazing.. the game graphically are breath taking! although it does have some slow 
 down other then that 2 thumbs up!
  Music: Great varation on music and even has a sound track! with worthy and memorable songs!
  
 Value: 3 disc side Quest and Hard Acheivements make this game last for a quite a while!
  Overall: 9.5 and maybe even more cause this game is the first of many Great Blue Dragon games! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review off by saying that I can't wait until Final Fantasy comes out. I could 
 rave about how much I love Final Fantasy, but this review is about Blue Dragon. I almost didn't 
 buy this game because of all the reviews stating how bad this game was, but finally decide that 
 if the people who made Final Fantasy made this game it can't be all that bad. And guess what. This 
 game is really good. Excellent even. I'd even go as far to say that the reviewers who gave it a 
 bad review really didn't play this game or they would have given it a raving review. What they 
 play the demo for and hour and wrote the game off because it was Final Fantasy.
  
  Graphics This game might not have all the visuals that Final Fantasy players are use to. Wait, 
 I've looked at my PS2 version of Final Fantasy and this game blows it away graphicly. Most people 
 are basing everything on their expectations of what FF will look like on the 360. And I'll admit 
 that I think FF for the 360 will blow this game out of the water, but they haven't played FF for 
 the 360 and this game is better than my PS2 version of FF.
  
  Gameplay
  Eventhough the skill system initial seems very simplistic in comparison to FF. After 24 hours of 
 playing Blue Dragon, I'd beg to differ. Blue Dragon has a unique way of upgrading your character's 
 skills. You can change your character's class from Black Magic, White Magic, Monk, Generalist, 
 Guardian, Supporter Magic and Assassin. Upgrading each class and using elements from each class 
 with any class. Initially, I would have said that I liked the upgrades to skills better in FF, 
 but at this point Blue Dragon system is just as good as the FF system. I always hated the field 
 play in FF. You just walk down a path and randomly encounter enemies. In Blue Dragon, you walk 
 through the enviroment and you have field options that make it just as fun and entertaining as 
 the battle screens. You can actually kill weaker enemy in the field without having to go to a battle 
 screen. You walk around with a field barrier and run into weaker opponents and they die. You have 
 a field battle circle that you can use to attack multiple enemy at the same time. And if you attack 
 the right two enemy the enemies battle each other. Lots of skills that you can use in the field 
 before you get to the battle screen.
  This game is three disk long and I'm still on the first disk I've been playing for 24 hours. This 
 game is extremely fun and the developers of Final Fantasy finally figured out what lots of people 
 hated about that game and made drastic improvements to fix lots of flaws in the FF games. I hope 
 they migrate these changes to the next Final Fantasy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Appljaxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  When being objective you can't pick up a turn based RPG and call it crappy because its a turn based 
 RPG. Gamespot's rating of 6 is a joke and they should be ashamed of themselves for not being more 
 objective. I still love you guys though. Blue Dragon is a great adventure with a high level of 
 polish. The graphics are wonderful. Not the best ever, but still very fun and inspired. The controls 
 and menu systems are dead on. Everything is easy and intuitive. The leveling system uses cross 
 class and ability management across the entire party. Very fun and fluid to design your own unique 
 team. The story is lacking a little emotion.... its no FFVII. The world is convincing but you always 
 feel like something is missing from the plot. Its not terrible, but had the story been told in 
 a more convincing manner this game would have been rated much higher. If you like turn based rpgs 
 this is a great game. If you don't you won't like it. Simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxhell04
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! This game is great! This game is an instant classic. There are tons of characters classes 
 to explore and countless treasure to find. Every nook and cranny has an item hidden in it. Im 
 only a few hours into it but I already know how much I am going to love it. Makes you want to keep 
 going on and on to gain those few more EXP points or skill points to unlock that next class or 
 ability. Defiantly worth buying and playing for countless hours. There are many different combinations 
 of classes and skills that will let you customize your characters countless ways. This keeps the 
 game fresh and interesting letting each play through be totally unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TITROTU
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, I recently purchased Blue Dragon, an RPG for the Xbox 360. Let me just say right now that 
 Blue Dragon is by far the best game on the 360. And I say that from the heart.
  
  Blue Dragon is something most RPGs aren't: old school. Think back to the days of Chrono Trigger 
 and Final Fantasy VI. Blue Dragon is pure classic fun. Today's RPGs are totally dependent on having 
 huge epic storylines with multiple endings based on the characters actions. While that might be 
 amusing for some, Blue Dragon goes back to the basics: Bad guy wants to take over the world, so 
 the good guys try to stop him.
  
  Another thing I loved about the game were the turn-based battles. It's really a breath of fresh 
 air to go back to the glory days. Not that I don't like real-time battle system found in games 
 such as Tales of Symphonia and Final Fantasy XII, It's just that the foundation of RPGs were built 
 on turn-based battles, and it's nice to see people still admire the classic nature of the genre.
 
  
  Now on to the graphics. They are AMAZING! Quite possibly the best on the console. A crisp and colorful 
 environment filled with characters designed by the legendary Akira Toriyama. What more could you 
 want?
  
  Now some critics disliked Blue Dragon for the very reason I enjoyed it, and it's true that some 
 people will not like the classic approach it has taken. However, if you're one of the people who 
 loved the RPGs of the 90's, or even if you're a kid growing up now who wants to see what a classic 
 example of an RPG is, Blue Dragon is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  In short: This is a cookie-cutter Japanese-style action RPG. The good:
  I thought the visuals and overall sounds were well-done. Colorful, good quality audio and video.
 
  Straight-forward Japanese style action RPG that would be great for younger kids.
  
  The bad:
  In-combat animations take much to long to play out, and become quite repetitive.
 
  Characters are very cute -- it's hard to become immersed in the game world with the very cartoony 
 (I don't mean that in a good way) voice overs.
  Much too easy.
  
  Other stuff:
  Combat is turn-based a-la Final Fantasy or Enchanted Arms. Cinematics are... well done, but nauseating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h1dden1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off like the quintessential JRPG with a young boy and friends trying to do something 
 heroic when they are way too weak to do, only to be taken off to some place new and face the boss. 
 After a thorough butt wiping the are pushed aside by the boss to be forgotten only to gain special 
 powers in there new found quest to stop the evil doer from doing his evil deeds. along the way 
 you will run into some new companions.
  
  When you first open the smelly plastic case and pop out the disk you may notice that there is another 
 disk and guess what, yes there is one more under that. but don't get to excited each disk is jam 
 packed with video. So pull out that mini fridge pop up some pop corn and get ready for some long 
 cut scenes.
  
  Where Blue dragon real shines is in the shadow creatures each character gets to command. Each creature 
 will start off with one job but along the way as your character progresses you can change jobs 
 in order to gain the skills that you want that creature to learn. by the end of the game most players 
 will have a hodge-podge of skills from different jobs.
  
  The visuals are done.... oh just go look at the pictures.
  
  Another cool feature of the game 
 is the battle system. It is done in a wheel type way where each character gets a spot it does not 
 go around like a normal wheel in the same order every time though. Where a character casts a spell 
 or does a charged attack a bar come up where when you hold down the a button it charges the power 
 of the attack or spell and can increase the effect area but the more you charge the attack or spell 
 the longer it will take for the character to cast the spell or throw the punch which allows the 
 monster to be able to go before the spell is cast. there is also a sweet spot on the bar where 
 if landed in will reduce the amount of MP used by the spell.
  
  All in all I personally think this is a good game that this site underrated just because they expected 
 more for a RPG on the 360. Where as if it were on the ps2 it would be rated a 7or higher because 
 they are just used to a old school JRPG with one or two new features.
  
  good game especially if you are the type of gamer that would pull a "Derrek" ( that is when some 
 on obsessed with getting every item every character up to level 99) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidof422
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say I love old school RPG's. My favorite games are the Final Fantasy series. This 
 is also one of the first RPG for next-gen. Dragon ball z type graphics from AKIRA how can you not 
 like this game. We all know (og gamers that is) that the dialog will be lacking and the voiceovers 
 will be kind of lame , but that is what we like. It will not be a game for the under 20 crowd. 
 These young-ins were only 10 when final fantasy 7 came out. All these kids want blood and guts 
 (like all the lame FPS shooters coming out) It is nice to see that turn base combat is still alive. 
 I have been playing non stop. This is not a new RPG with bells and whistles but why fix something 
 that is not broke. Sakaguchi knows what got him where he is and he made a game that for me is fun 
 and new (shadows are awesome) . So if you are a young kid who did not get a chance to play some 
 of the old RPG's please do not write reviews on this cause you do not have a clue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daleerin24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon, from the developers of Chrono Trigger is not all that one would expect from such vaunted 
 video game creators, but still enough to catch the interest of us old school gamers out there. 
 From the beginning of the game you are thrust into the story line. To start off one might believe 
 that the story is weak, with not enough attention payed to the back story, but as you progress 
 they do indeed touch upon the subject at length. When I first played this game I thought that the 
 voice acting was somewhat corny on the part of the main character, his voice being to deep for 
 the little body he possesses. The other two main characters are all right as far as voice acting 
 goes. I was struck from the very get go by the great background music this game has though. One 
 thing you definitely won't get tired of is the background music, it is all that the famed producer 
 that created it would expect.
  
  I thought that the graphics were crisp and well defined, although I felt that character design 
 would have been better if they used a less cartoony approach. Overall I could get used to the main 
 characters being somewhat silly in appearance because the backgrounds look good nto be certain. 
 The enemies look somewhat childish, but take you back to the days of Secret of mana, when the monsters 
 looked cute and cuddly and still odlly mencaing.
  
  The magic system is slighty obtrusive and difficult to master, taking a little over an hour to 
 finally be accustomed. I felt that the shadow monsters that each main character possessed made 
 the game and it's battles a little too easy. The system of attacking first with the X button is 
 a nice touch, lending a little cariety to the seemingly endless horde of battles you will undertake.
 
  
  Overall I tend to sway to the ideology that this game was rushed, but pleasant none the less. This 
 game will be an aquired taste for hard core RPG fans, but much much better than Two Worlds. It 
 will bring you back to the days when the monsters were cute and the graphics cuddly, but coupled 
 with the musical scores you should be in for some very fun gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Though I am not quick to condemn the game as Gamespot has, I do have to point out that this is 
 indeed your run of the mill RPG. There is ZERO deviation from the norm of RPG's in this game and 
 since the last RPG I played on the 360 was Enchanted Arms. I do have to say that this is one of 
 the BETTER RPG's for the system.
  
  I was also expecting something better from old Squaresoft veterans, but maybe I was expecting TOO 
 MUCH. These were the guys that gave us Final Fantasy's and Chrono Trigger. Sure a collaboration 
 between them again will bear fruit but sadly it was just average.
  
  I love the story and I love dialogue. Though the game spans 3 discs its a bit of an overkill I 
 am willing to overlook. I love the artwork of Akira Toriyama, but even then it simply was not enough.
 
  
  If you feel that you played Blue Dragon before in some incarnation you probably have... The game 
 is good, but its easily forgotten once you play anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commonblue1914
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Right from the beginning Blue Dragon will put you in that familiar classic old school JRPG environment 
 that a lot of rpg lovers can relate to . From the great classic character design that made the 
 Dragon Ball series successful to the great musical soundtrack , Blue Dragon has established itself 
 as a great quality rpg to the XBOX 360 . This game has been fun with a lot of great HD cinematic 
 clips and battle customizations and tons of Boss fights . Also this game could take up to 70 hours 
 to complete so let that be a warning to the average gamer or to someone who is not familiar with 
 classic old school JRPG's. Last thing I am going to say is that the Gamespot opinion for this game 
 was one of the worst reviews ever given by Gamespot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frunklindoodle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This has been such a great game so far. I've already put in about 20 hours into the game and I 
 been loving every minute of it. Don't be fooled by the reviews most game sites have been posting 
 about this game, (Just like you shouldn't judge a book by its cover) It offers a pretty good story, 
 great combat system in which you can mix up different skills and classes with your characters, 
 graphics make this game look very beautiful with its use of its many many colors. If you've been 
 waiting for a traditional RPG (not them hack n slash ones) then look no further, you'll definitely 
 get your $60 worth with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joechesser
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I was happy to see Hironobu Sakaguchi stray from square-enix, and i think this is a good benchmark 
 for his new game studio. His next game looks even better, its called Lost Odyssey. But back to 
 BD, the gameplay and difficulty is alittle on the easy side and the story is a been there done 
 kinda thing, but outside that the combat system and the job classes are a nice new look at the 
 old final fantasy games of the past. It kind of reminds me of FFX. Sakaguchi brought Nobuo Uematsu 
 with him from square to do the music, and its one of his best scores yet. My favorite part of the 
 game so far are the backgrounds, there are no pre-rendered backgrounds in the game. Everything 
 you see was put there and not just drawn up by an artist. Also for all those that think that the 
 characters look like Dragonball people its because Akira Toriyama did all the character designs, 
 he was the lead animator for Dragonball Z. I gave it a 7.5 because it was a good honest first try 
 by the new company. The story is a little childish and the characters are very ordinary in their 
 personalities. Also if your playing with English voice over stop the game and restart with the 
 Japanese and just read the subtitles. The actors are better and more passionate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donvarriel
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Horrible Dialog. No depth to the characters. Very annoying translation. I was hoping this game 
 would be good. I was hoping for weopons, goodgraphics and most of all a great story to go along 
 with those 3 dvd disks. Unfortunately alls we get is terrible voice acting: very annoying voice 
 acting for the characters in general. Very boring and repetitive gameplay. Having no weopons sucks. 
 Watching your silly shadows do all the work for the entirety of the game erks me to no end. I really 
 have nothing good to say about the game. FinalFantasy and sukurba own this rpg. What a shame. This 
 is one of very few, if any rpgs available for the xbox360 and we get this cookiecutter genericy. 
 Ohh I forgot to mention the game lags. Why i have no idea, The xbox360 should easily be able to 
 play this game like butter running off a sweet set of corn. Shiddy coding i guess, no optimizations. 
 Its a rushed rpg.
  
  Crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raivon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Right from the beginning Blue Dragon will put you in that familiar classic old school JRPG environment 
 that a lot of rpg lovers can relate to . From the great classic character design that made the 
 Dragon Ball series successful to the great musical soundtrack , Blue Dragon has established itself 
 as a great quality rpg to the XBOX 360 . This game has been fun with a lot of great HD cinematic 
 clips and battle customizations and tons of Boss fights . Also this game could take up to 70 hours 
 to complete so let that be a warning to the average gamer or to someone who is not familiar with 
 classic old school JRPG's. Last thing I am going to say is that the Gamespot opinion for this game 
 was one of the worst reviews ever given by Gamespot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADDjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. Story is good, Charters are great, and I love the game play. Its like they 
 took out every aspect of RPGs games that I like and smashed it in to this game. I dont know why 
 the crities gave it such a low score. I would give this game a 9.3 but because the critices gave 
 it a 7.6 I'm giving it a 10. I love the old school style of game play, yet it feels like something 
 new. One thing that really made this game for me was the charter modles I love Akria's art work, 
 I always told my friends it be awsome if the makers of FF and Akria would make a game together 
 (who would of guessed that only 15 years later it would come true. Thank you for make this game 
 its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ampheta1337
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  Even tho' my previous review was deleted- Blue Dragon is still EASY, BORING and DUMB- not classic.
 
  
  1) Boring, dumb story without any twists or turns.
  2) When you are asked to make a choice, and you select not to do as developers wanted, you just 
 stay there for few seconds and are asked again. So nothing depends on your choice.
  3) Bland characters, except Marumaro- he's annoying as hell.
  4) Boring world- there's nothing 
 eye catching at all.
  5) Dumb monsters- Poo Snake in 5 different colors DAMN!!!! And other monsters in at least 3 forms 
 that differ only by color and stats as well.
  6) Absolutely no challenge during fights.
  
  If you're awaiting something FF-like from this game- forget about it. Not in this world.
 
  
  Rent it first.
  
  And I still demand addon, that allows to drop nukes on sheep tribe camps!!!!111one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShangDoh
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The characters are annoying and forgettable, but once you reach the second disk, everything picks 
 up and Blue Dragon becomes the RPG I expected it to be. Trust me, just endure the boring first 
 half of the game and everything becoems worthwhile when you reach the second disk. Blue Dragon 
 doesn't do anything to revolutionize the RPG genre, but hell everything done in the game is done 
 correctly. Isn't that in the end the most important thing? The story is your average group of good 
 guys beating down on your villainous bad guy. But then again isn't that the core of the story for 
 most games out there? The story may not be anything special, but the way it's presented is excellent. 
 Overall I wasn't dissapointed with the game, definitely a game to pick up if you're a fan of JRPGs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z_meister
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I never thought i would play another JRPG again. But after trying my hands on Blue Dragon, it reminded 
 me of the old times i had playing FFVI and other old school JRPGs. At first it was boring and it's 
 like any other bland RPGs out there. But you start to level up your shadows, start to know your 
 character, then it grows on you and reminds you how fun it was to play these games.
  
  Some may not like the character design, because they look like they've been ripped off from the 
 Dragon Ball universe. But i like it because they avoided the girly-man type of hero and the fashion 
 overkill look that is plaguing most JRPGs out there.
  
  The combat is fun and keeps you going, the search for every gold and nothing is worth it, because 
 you get rare items. The story is simple but good, not much mind twisting plot and too much flashbacks 
 that is confusing. It's plain good vs. evil story that makes you really want to root for shu and 
 the gang. The graphics is colorful and crisp. To those who are afraid to try this out because of 
 the low reviews it's been getting, try to rent it first and maybe it will change your mind to buying 
 this game. That's what happened to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pats83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best rpg game i ever played. its so fun and the features i the game is great. 
 battle scenes are cool and this game is just good. you may think its a childs game, but it isnt. 
 if you want a good, new rpg game. blue dragon is the one to get. this game includes different classes 
 which is cool. you can make the perfeect team by mixing up diferent classes together. the visual 
 are good, but not perfect. but luckyly it doesnt get in the way. you wont notice visual that were 
 kind of just put in and not worked on. to story board is also good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuqbag
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon fills a niche that most 360 gamers may not care to pursue because they're busy playing 
 games the likes of Gears of War, GRAW 2 & Oblivion. It seems like 95% of all games released on 
 the 360 are action oriented, and that even includes the biggest RPG to date, Oblivion. So I think 
 the bad taste that Blue Dragon is leaving in all of the reviewers mouths comes from a short attention 
 span and a dislike for turn based JRPGs. Just because the game is not for the mainstream 360 gamer 
 doesn't mean the RPers that liked stuff like Dragon Quest 8, Tales of Symphonia and good ol' Skies 
 of Arcadia wont like Blue Dragon. Blue Dragon in a classically inspired JRPG with MANY new twists 
 to the battle system. Even the pre-battle strategy that includes equipping skills while travelling 
 the main map areas and using said skills to ensnare enemies in groups that sometimes leads to them 
 battling it out while your in a fight with them, or being able to pass weaker enemies with a skill 
 equipped that shows a bubble keeping them at bay as you traverse the many gorgeous locales. The 
 main complaints I have seen so far include one that says the games class system ends up meshing 
 all the characters together in a bland mish-mash because as you progress through your class unlocks 
 abilities that allows you to equip them within another class. Well let me address this by saying, 
 FF12 had a system where all 6 characters were learning skills from the SAME board and after 30-40 
 hours of play ALL my characters where magic wielding, sword toting bad asses yet I never heard 
 a complaint about our "perfect" FF12. I will also say this, I have never played FF12 for more than 
 2-3 hours a day and more than 2 days in a row, and with Blue Dragon I have already played 10 hours 
 in the 1st day!!! Also, let it be known I loved what FF12 tried to be. I loved the Feux-MMO battle 
 system, and the skill system and combat was cool. But somehow the game just felt unfocused to me 
 and didn't rope me in, and im sure thats because it changed so many hands. But BD feels like a 
 complete trip, and if you give it a chance you may find yourself surprised by its cute-sie GFX 
 style and fun strategic combat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanut110886
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Everything you want in an old school RPG with the feel, battle system and customization options. 
 A must have for if you enjoy JRPG's. This reminds me of all the Final Fantasies I've played up 
 to 10 where they excluded a world map and exploration. Graphics and great and above all the gameplay 
 is fun and you will easily find yourself playing for hours at end. Don't let one bias review from 
 someone who probably hated this game came into doing this review persuade you out of a classic 
 and exciting game. If you feel that you have been missing out on all the old and original RPG designs 
 of the past hoping for one on current systems this is the one for you. If you want a review about 
 the game as a whole other then this one guy who probably played just the first disc then go to 
 gamepro. com or teamxbox. com. Even IGN gives this game its credit where it is due. All I must say 
 is Enchanted Arms received a higher score and that was the most bland and boring story of all the 
 RPG's ive played recently. The characters were few in number and lacking but even so they could 
 have made theres more interesting. For someone to complain about not having weapon attacks instead 
 of them using what the game is based on, the Shadows giving these regular people powers then this 
 reviewer is very ignornant and needs to stick to giving FF all the 9-10 scores he could possibly 
 give. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hibikichan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  You know, when i was little and i played the command&amp; conquer for the first time i liked that 
 game so much, that i whished that there will be more games like it, a lot more.. now after all 
 this c&amp; c clones i still thinking about that time and i never regret that wish of mine. Because 
 thanks to all that clones the strategy genre got better and better and now i'm looking forward 
 o starcraft 2 and i know i wont be dissapointed. But about Blue Dragon.. this game brings back 
 memories... final fantasy... chrono trigger... dragon quest... all of those rpgs that i've played 
 on nintendo, gameboy, nds, dreamcast, ps and ps 2 their spirit its here in this game. Even the 
 dragon ball charachter design reminds me of the time when i started to watch anime. This game cant 
 be juged with the mere numbers. The game is good, not the best in the genre, but thats the best 
 jrpg game that appeared on the next game consoles up until now with just the right story and jut 
 the right gameplay. This is like a good bye to the old school jrpg's and i like this because i 
 know that the next gen games will be better but much more i like this because those days of playing 
 the old ff were the best.
  
  Best wishes to Hironobu Sakaguchi, please make games, a lot of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Blue dragon is a mixed feel, almost great but just fall sort in a lot of areas but at the same 
 time a really fun game. The best way to describe this game is that if you love the classic feel 
 of old RPGs you will love this one.
  
  From the get go the sound track of the game is probably one of the best I've heard, though a lot 
 of the boss battles share the same song it doesn't really hurt the track all that much if you are 
 a lover of the classic sound of RPGs because there is plenty of it to draw you in.
  
  The graphics are solid and smooth looking with that dragon quest feel which make you just fall 
 in love with the game. Though at times the motion blur does seem to be overly done, and the game 
 lags at points it shouldn't be.
  
  The combat system in the game is very fun and classic with a class system where you can level up 
 your class and also your char has a separate level, allowing you to not feel gimped if you wish 
 to go back and level another class.
  
  The worst part of this game though has to be the dialog. Shu the main char of the game seems to 
 say I won't give up every other sentence he talks in, which gets kind of old. The chars. really 
 don't feel alive at points in the story and the story seems like a rehash of old though it isn't 
 terrible it just isn't great. All in all the game isn't great but at the same time it is not a 
 bad game it is a shot back to classic games and brings forth the feeling that was in them even 
 if it doesn't have a great story it does have a great feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jn87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  It's definitely not the best RPG ive ever played but I never expected it to be. I definitely don't 
 agree with Gamespot though. I agree that the characters can get a little bland and annoying but 
 every RPG has its share of annoying characters. As for the fantasy world, I like it and I think 
 it looks cool. I also like the graphics and their style, they could hardly make them super detailed 
 when its supposed to look like Anime. I havent gotten bored of the storyline yet and its still 
 keeping me interested although ive only played it for about 8 hours so I suppose my view on that 
 might change once ive played it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Blue dragon is a mixed feel, almost great but just fall sort in a lot of areas but at the same 
 time a really fun game. The best way to describe this game is that if you love the classic feel 
 of old RPGs you will love this one.
  
  From the get go the sound track of the game is probably one of the best I've heard, though a lot 
 of the boss battles share the same song it doesn't really hurt the track all that much if you are 
 a lover of the classic sound of RPGs because there is plenty of it to draw you in.
  
  The graphics are solid and smooth looking with that dragon quest feel which make you just fall 
 in love with the game. Though at times the motion blur does seem to be overly done, and the game 
 lags at points it shouldn't be.
  
  The combat system in the game is very fun and classic with a class system where you can level up 
 your class and also your char has a separate level, allowing you to not feel gimped if you wish 
 to go back and level another class.
  
  The worst part of this game though has to be the dialog. Shu the main char of the game seems to 
 say I won't give up every other sentence he talks in, which gets kind of old. The chars. really 
 don't feel alive at points in the story and the story seems like a rehash of old though it isn't 
 terrible it just isn't great. All in all the game isn't great but at the same time it is not a 
 bad game it is a shot back to classic games and brings forth the feeling that was in them even 
 if it doesn't have a great story it does have a great feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  I love RPGS. oblivion, morrowind, KOTR and daggerfall are all some of my favourite games of all 
 time, and to be quite honest i havent been interested in this game in the slightest, but after 
 recieving it as an unexpexted gift i loaded it up and was rather impressed. True, the game starts 
 a little vaguely and i am only about 8 hours in, but i enjoyed the cutscenes and loved the battles, 
 especially the shadow. Fans of this genre may slag of my opinion because maybe they are used to 
 something better, but for a first timer in a JRPG i am having fun exploring the massive game world. 
 Most reviews say the game doesnt take of until the 3rd disc, so if thats true i am sure i am gonna 
 love whats to follow after enjoying the games opning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilirch100302
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome.. ive put about 20 hours into it and i have not one thing to complain about. 
 This game takes it back to the basics screw all that fancy stuff thats why games now a days dont 
 hold my attention. Gamespot you need to get your stuff together and get new people to rate games 
 because you guys are crazy for giving this a 6.0.. the graphics alone deserve a 6.0, voice acting 
 coulda been better BUT theres still alot of RPG's without even any voice acting in it. Music is 
 pretty decent ive heard alot worse and alot better but its nothing to really complain about. Story 
 line is pretty average but yet it keeps you in the story without anything to crazy. The artwork 
 is amazing animation kinda reminds me of DBZ in sort of a way and i always like thier animation 
 (not the games) . If your a fan of RPG's like FF III, Chrono Trigger, Breath of Fire definently 
 pick this up and dont listen to gamespot they need thier head checked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  I will admit that I was stunned upon reading the first batch of reviews that slammed Blue Dragon 
 for being more of the same, and not enough of the new. As a gamer who started with Dragon Warrior 
 and Final Fantasy on the NES I am no fan of the direction many of the new RPGs have gone. As I 
 have always said I felt that the genre became too dumbed down with the release of Final Fantasy 
 Seven because all of a sudden the need was there to appeal to the masses rather then needing to 
 appeal to those who had been with the genre for nearly a decade before the release. Where many 
 of the reviewers are screaming lack of innovation I find myself saying Classic RPG which I find 
 to be a blessing in a world full of games that try to hard to fill the genre with flash but at 
 the same time cost its very soul. The Gameplay is one truly where the Blue Dragon establishes itself 
 as a game for classic gamers and not the KOTOR and Oblivion players of the world, its like an old 
 school blend of the classic Final Fantasy IV &amp; Albert Odesey Fighting engine with an ability 
 to change your characters class and as such carry over abilities and spells, very much reminding 
 me of the North American Final Fantasy III and the Espers which would teach the equipped user 
 spells, generally speaking if you play long enough much like as in Final Fantasy III everyone can 
 learn Ultima so to speak. This allows the end user to do what they want in terms of customization, 
 be it having all your party members generally mimic each other or having a vastly different group. 
 Think back to the First Fantasy where you had the option of picking four fighters, or two fighters 
 a thief and a mage of some sort, or four black belts, or a fight, black belt, thief and white mage 
 the flexibility to do what you want. The fact that the dragons generally do battle in your place 
 is an interest concept that neither adds to or takes away from the game, but it is rather neat 
 to see them doing battle for the first time. There have been many knocks against the fact that 
 a game that is 50 hours has such a slow start to it, and this is where our current FPS generation 
 just doesnt get it. The character development comes slowly and over time and you learn more as 
 the game moves forward, For those older RPG players I would say the story move along the same pace 
 as games like Lufia and Beyond the Beyond it moves at a level were you are always learning but 
 the BAM factor comes to those who are willing to wait for it. I cannot stress enough that it 
 is a 50 hour game, hitting the gamer with the major plot points at hour 10 and hour 15 would make 
 for a rather slow 35 hours afterward, you work towards the story and the twist and it is well worth 
 the wait. Blue Dragon is like an Epic Novel, whereas something like Bioshock while amazing is really 
 just a large print 200 page mystery novel, the pace is different but the pay-out is worth it. The 
 in field aspect is also interesting whereas you can avoid random battles as you can see the enemies 
 walking around and if you want to brawl its your option. This is an improved version of the system 
 that was used in the SNES classic Seventh Saga. Graphically it is what I expect from a next generation 
 JRPG. Its colorful in terms of the characters, enemies and environments. The goes in nearly the 
 opposite direction in which games like Final Fantasy and Enchanted Arms are heading where you generally 
 have a very dark and run down looking environment by design, within the realm of Blue Dragon the 
 player gets color and diversity and not the same the world is ending or ended look of nearly every 
 RPG that has hit my coffee table in the last five years. The Attacks, Spells and Abilities are 
 much like the rest of the game colorful and big and unlike many of the more current RPGs dont 
 take away from the core of an RPG game mainly the story in order to get a few wows from the 
 FPS nation taking a ten minute break from playing Gears of War. I will admit that the shear size 
 of the world within the game makes for some of the environments to look somewhat generic or repeated 
 at times but its something I can live with. The score is as great. Nobuo Uematsu delivers what 
 I expected an original score that does not seem out of place in a modern RPG yet still is classical 
 enough that its not over the top for an RPG of this type. The knock I have is that the overall 
 score is too short for a 50+ hour game and I would have enjoyed more of what I got. The effects 
 are what is to be expected from an RPG, you will not gain any huge benefit from having a 5.1 surround 
 system but it does improve on the quality of the game itself. I will admit that sound was the area 
 I built up in my mind to be much better then it was. It is an above average score with very average 
 sounding spells and may be one of the weaker links of the game. Bottom-line: If you had never heard 
 of or played any of the games I made reference to within my review it may be for the best that 
 you pass on this game and try something else because it may not be for you. Although if you sat 
 back and reminisced about how great Seventh Saga was, or how cool the ending for Lufia was or how 
 thrilled you were when Samsons curse was lifted in Beyond the Beyond then you will be thrilled 
 when you get into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GetUpAndDance05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I've been watching this game since the PLAY! concert came two years ago when they played some of 
 the soundtrack by Nobuo Uematsu and I have to say it's everything I was hoping it would be. I feel 
 that the game offers new insights into the RPG genre as there's new sources for attacking systems, 
 but also bringing back the old class system of white mage, black mage, assassin, etc. and letting 
 you pick. It isn't your typical RPG because since you fight with your shadows, there aren't any 
 weapons to gather, customize, and equip, but the accessory option is still there to keep that feel 
 to it. I think the animation style is extremely... how can I put this.... Japanese, but that's okay 
 because the style of the game is Japanese as well and it gives the game it's character. The art 
 style really is part of the characters in Blue dragon, characters that I instantly loved. Things 
 that I've noticed are bad is that the load times are a little slow. Sometimes you'll be in the 
 middle of a video and then BAM it needs to load the next section -- and aren't we supposed to be 
 in next-gen? Another annoying thing is there's this voice that follows you and says things like 
 playable or join or gold whenever you pick something up or characters join your team or what have 
 you. It doesn't get in the way but I'm not going to lie, it gets pretty annoying. Another thing 
 that could be good or could be bad is how easy it is to find items. I almost never run out of anything 
 and I'm always finding gold all over the place. Another thing is that the game is on three discs. 
 I mean, my god. I haven't played a multi-disc game since Final Fantasy 9. Maybe I just haven't 
 played the bulk of good multi-disc games but still, wow. I thought we were past multi disc games 
 and imagine my surprise when I open the case and find two extra discs that aren't for bonus content. 
 It's not a bad thing, but it's something that should be acknowledged.
  
  Anywho, the game is so far very enjoyable. I've had it one day and in that first day i played it 
 for 6 hours (sad I know) . I definitely recommend picking it up if you like rpgs. Kudos to Microsoft 
 for finally getting some RPGs on the system. Let's hope Eternal Sonata does well too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikaears
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  While the Gamespot review was pretty spot-on as to the failings of the game, it almost seemed like 
 they never even played the game. Theres some weird statements throughout (like calling all of the 
 shadow creatures dragons and having all your dragons fight when only one playable character has 
 a dragon shadow and the others have other decidedly non-dragon animals) that convince me they gave 
 it a cursory look over and were making judgments on its originality based on Toriyama's character 
 designs which are less than fresh.
  
  This is basically another by the books RPG along the lines of Dragon Quest VIII except with an 
 enormous amounts of cinematics. Theres not a lot else to say for its good points, they're the same 
 as any RPG playable today that doesn't do anything to change the formula. However, as the Gamespot 
 reviews said, you'll never care about the characters in this game. The character development is 
 non-existent. Decidedly average but not quite as bad as the dramatic Gamespot review says, this 
 game is definitely worth your time if you're looking for a good RPG on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalarianChemist
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is a game that is created with a Dragon Quest style atmosphere. Many people have made 
 the mistake of saying that this game should be compared to Final Fantasy style gameplay, because 
 it is developed by the creator of the Final Fantasy series. However, the staff members who created 
 Dragon Quest are also responsible for Blue Dragon. And Dragon Quest is the game that this game 
 is much more similar to.
  
  The game called Lost Odyssey, from this same development company, is the one that will have an 
 atmosphere closer to Final Fantasy. That game will be released for Xbox 360 later in the year.
 
  
  As far as Blue Dragon goes, it has a type of artwork that is definitely targeted towards Japanese 
 style gamers. We need to remember, the reviews of Blue Dragon in Japan are EXCELLENT!!!
  
  Blue Dragon DEFINITELY DID SUCCEED in its goal of helping the Xbox 360 in Japan. 200,000 gamers 
 bought the Xbox 360 and Blue Dragon in Japan on the same receipt.
  
  There is a cool demo of Blue Dragon on Xbox Live, but it really only gives a small description 
 of what the game is actually like in the long run.
  
  I personally think that the story in Blue Dragon is quite interesting. And the way that different 
 character techniques interact is something that people will have a lot of fun with.
  
  My best analysis will be to say, if you like Dragon Quest style gameplay, then you will LOVE Blue 
 Dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeasia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon has delivered on every level I expected it to. Everything from the story, pace, character 
 designs and personalities. Blue Dragon is by no means a revolutionary game. It's more of a evolutionary 
 game. It adds to an already existing formula. The new gameplay functions that are a part of Blue 
 Dragon were well thought out, and make you wonder why these features weren't in earlier RPGs. The 
 composition is another strong point. Utematsu has yet again, graced us with his brilliance in music 
 making. The music score has the familiarity of Utematsu, but different enough so that it's unique, 
 and can be catagorized as the Blue Dragon sound in the future. All in all, a masterpiece. This 
 was my most hyped up game for this year, and I'm glad enough to say that it has been a treat everytime 
 I turn on my 360 with Blue Dragon in. If you haven't picked up this jewel yet, and your an RPG 
 fan, don't wait any longer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_THFC
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  With Customisation options to die for, beautiful turn based combat for the true RPG fan and visuals 
 (running on 720p HDMI) that are imo stunning!
  
  If you like RPG's then you will love this.
  
  Im very dissapointed with GS for following the 
 crowd and giving this a poor rating, the game is addictive, beautiful and huge, the character design 
 is fun and the story although not up to FF's standard by any stretch of the imagination is still 
 good enough to get into and follow throughout.
  
  The combat is fun and addictive, leveling up FF style helps this and you cant help but search every 
 little nook and cranny for that extra 10 gold or at the off chance an item you had no idea was 
 there.
  
  It may not be the best in the RPG world but its easily the best on the 360 (not that there is much 
 comp to be fair) and if you luike old school RPG's you will love this.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Blue Dragon is truly a breath of fresh air.
  
  RPG's have taken a serious turn for the worse over the last few years. I was always a big fan of 
 the SNES japanese RPG's like Chrono Trigger, Breath of Fire, Phantasy Star, and of course the Final 
 Fantasy series.
  
  Well, Blue Dragon brings back some great memories and instills hope into a dying genre.
  
  
 The gameplay is excellent, the sound is superb, and the battle system is the classic turn based 
 strategic format.
  
  Character customization is a blast. It's so detailed yet so simple.
  
  It really takes me back to the days when I would tell my friends to F off so I could finish 
 a tantalizing boss battle. Did I say boss battles? Blue Dragon has a ton of them.
  
  Three legendary RPG creators worked on this game which is destined to be a classic and it shows.
 
  
  Blue Dragon is the complete package and should have it's own place on every 360 owner's shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyhulk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I must say I'm surprised on how the game resmebles Chrono Trigger where even the creators (not 
 sure with nobou uematsu and sakaguchi) brought in there old school formula to a new generation 
 of gamers. If your an RPG junkie than you already know where this takes shape. Like Chrono Trigger 
 the turnbase action is almost identical from your actions commands to monsters attacking eachother. 
 From gameplay, customization, to story we've all pretty much been there done that. For those whose 
 still new to the genre, Blue Dragon is a great game to start off with. Pretty much the story in 
 a nutshell is four kids swallow theses gems that give there shadows power where they use it to 
 save the world againt your typical take over the world character. This game will demand patience 
 when encountering monsters on the field and from time to time you just want to get it over with 
 from getting to point B from point A.
  
  Personally I feel this game is a visual experience since I havent seen near pixar quality graphics 
 (pick your year) that show off the games beautiful art form and especially the great composer uematsu. 
 I would suggest just taking a moment to admire the detail and lighting from villages to cities 
 where some wouldnt have guessed that your looking at the same engine behind Gear of War.
  
  I would strongly suggest watching the anime series via youtube or veoh. The direction of the characters 
 gives this game such honest anticipation with characters such as Maro Maro and Shu. Though its 
 a complete 180 once your play the game. The spirit of the world through Toriyama's art should give 
 off a nostalgic feeling where cutscenes a gave me a smile and laugh here and there.
  
  This is a wonderful Jrpg from the fathers of final fantasy and it should keep you busty until your 
 next rpg experience whether it be eternal sonata, mass effect, or my next purchase lost oddyssey.
 
  
  thanks for your time, take care 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAMZdxb
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  young and the adults, the new and old together, puts them on the same plain and delivers rich materials 
 upon which we all can dream new dreams. Forget the gameplay, or the enemies, or the fight sequences, 
 this game is the cutest presentation out there for all to enjoy. This review is probably more emotional 
 than technical, and i get all technical here aswell, but as a writer, i choose not to for reasons 
 that are beyond me. If a story, or the way a game is presented has the capability of mesmerizing 
 its audience, then in my books that game is a perfect 10. This game shows you dont have to do much 
 to be up there with the big titles. Yes the gameplay is old school with some new alterations, yes 
 the story is not too complex or original, but the way its all laid out is what makes it a classic 
 game. Everyone should experience this. -K 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Blue Dragon for some, is a total dream with three JRPG legends at the helm of this game, while 
 others may see the game as a big snore. Blue Dragon takes the classic JRPG turn based formula and 
 runs with it, which will please old school JRPG fans but will alienate ADD kids who need constant 
 stimulation.
  
  Blue Dragon is the combined work of three legends in the JRPG world. The first of which is Hironobu 
 Sakaguchi, the producer and writer of the game, who has also directed or produced every Final Fantasy 
 game (in the numeric series.) The second is character designer Akira Toriyama who has also designed 
 characters for games like Dragon Quest, Chrono Cross, and is the creator of the Dragon Ball anime 
 series. The last but not least legend is Nabuo Uematsu, the musical composer for all the Final 
 Fantasy games and Chrono Trigger. With three industry legends creating this game, it is easy to 
 see how fans of the genre can get very excited for this game, but for those who arent fans, these 
 three names dont do anything for them.
  
  Like previously stated, Blue Dragon its a classic JRPG style game, and I mean classic. It has 
 old school turn based mechanics, where you stand in a formation and take turns attacking your enemies. 
 It is very old school and doesnt take any chances with changing the formula in the least bit. 
 This is a joy for some, but for others game play can get tiring after a while playing, and with 
 three discs to cover, it may be hard for some to finish the game. One gripe I have with this system 
 is that there is no set order, sometimes enemies who go get moved into the middle of the order 
 attacking twice, sometimes three times before a character has time to retaliate, and usually they 
 attack one of your spell casters who has a weak defense and by the time you can play, your health 
 is down a significant amount and youre forced to heal. This is all due to speed, but if you're 
 fighting a speedy opponent it really gets annoying. One plus to the fighting mechanic is the ability 
 to start a monster fight. Since there are no random encounters, you see all your foes on screen 
 before attacking them, and if two creatures are near enough to you, you can bring up a circle around 
 you which pauses the game giving you the ability to select which monster you want to fight, or 
 if you want to bring both monsters in at the same time. If you chose the latter, theres a good 
 chance that the monsters will start to fight each other instead of you, giving you the chance to 
 charge attacks or attack them both. Even though its a small feature, it does breathe life into 
 the old school game play mechanics. Technically the game looks great. The cartoony visuals are 
 definitely Toriyamas style and fit the game well. All the characters and environments are very 
 detailed and well polished as well. Though the graphics are great, there are a few annoyances, 
 like when youre in a battle, most of the background behind you or monsters is blurred out which 
 doesnt seem necessary. Then during special moves (sort of like limit break) its a mix of fast 
 animations with slow, which is slightly puzzling. Its not frame rate slow down, its just animated 
 slowly which once again is sort of weird to watch. The audio on the other hand is top notch. Uematsu 
 has produced another amazing score for the game which consist of epic ballads and fast paced (almost 
 clich&eacute; d) guitar riffs during battles. Some of the English voices are a little sketchy, but 
 thankfully they left the Japanese dub in for fans who prefer to play their games like this. In 
 the end, Blue Dragon is a great first for Mistwalker. Had it taken a few more chances with mixing 
 up the formula of the game here we would have an AAA title on our hands. But the classic game play 
 does get a little tired after a while, so thats the only thing holding me back from giving it 
 an AAA score. But make no mistake, Blue Dragon is a great game and is worth it to anyone looking 
 for a great JRPG for their Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightmare_King
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Not all games can have great story lines like Chrono Trigger and not all graphics can be as cartoonish 
 and perfect like Dragon quest VIII. But Blue dragon isn't perfect nor great but its a pretty decent 
 and good game for someone that like their RPGs in the old school range like myself. I had somewhat 
 of an expectation coming into playing this game but on some levels i wasn't surprise that it didn't 
 reach it; but was surprise that on some levels it felt like a animated movie which i thought it 
 was cool. Story wise, honestly don't expect something epic that's one thing i wasn't coming into 
 with high expectations. Being said this game made by three of the most prominate and masters of 
 RPG. first the creator and writer of the final fantasy series Hironobu Sakaguchi... the awesome 
 Japanese artist for shows like Dragon ball z and of course Crono trigger Akira Toriyama and to 
 save the best for last the composer for some of the most epic parts in Final fantasy Nobou Uematsu 
 you would think this game would be the hottest thing combined with these three powerhouses of JRPGs 
 but this game makes a slow start but i had to keep remembering that this is a first game from their 
 company and they are just getting started.
  
  So honestly, as much as i do like this game for its premise i have to also realize its not complete 
 nor perfect and this is a taste of maybe some good JRPGs coming for the 360 so for me Blue dragon 
 is good in some aspect but just a test..... until Eternal sonata or Lost oddessy.
  
  But remember this is Sakaguchi-san's first company that he owns so not all first games that comes 
 out starts out great... I mean the very first Final Fantasy game that he created for the NES didn't 
 have much of a story either but it was something about the game that set the bar for pretty damn 
 awesome sequels down the line... so i have to give him some respect on behalf of doing this... and 
 I hope the sequel (and i'm sure their will be one) will be a great one surpassing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamancecool
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Blue dragon is a fantasy RPG from the man who brought you final fantasy. With that you would expect 
 a great game. Its not really.
  
  I'll start off with the good. The Graphics are custy and cool but don't play it on a VGA cable 
 or you will land your self in jaggie land. Also the English voice acting is quite good with the 
 exception of Muro who's voice is like a cat on a chalkboard. On the bad end the battle system is 
 boring and like every other RPG out there. The story is a typical save the world from some bad 
 dude with black finger nails by going through various dungeons that you swear you have seen 50 
 time before in other games.
  
  If your planning on buying this, rent it first. Save yourself the bother of picking this up and 
 reilseing you just got a generic RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lady_teaser
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Since Chrono Trigger i wasn't really sure i would like any other RPG.... lol, now I'm back with 
 RPG's and gotta say this game is just so cool. Being a fan of DBZ i love the style of art of akira 
 toriyama and i have to say i am enjoying this game immensly, finally we get a good RPG on the xbox 
 360 after that pitiful excuse for an RPG that is Enchanted Arms. Hopefully Eternal Sonata will 
 be also good - so far the xbox 360 has proved to me it is worth my money, hoping for more titles 
 like this ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Goku
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  This is the very true RPG for the 360. If you are a RPG, and I know that we are a lot, then you 
 would find this game perfect to star the RPG ERA in the 360. Its a combination of FF, Dragon Ball 
 Z and Dragon Quest VII... Hope you like it just like me... The character was created by Akira who 
 like the cartonish one. The story by one of the creator of FF. What else you want... Its just amazing. 
 The story is well combine with the music, the ambient its just amazing. The water, the sky, the 
 floors, etc, etc... What do you expect, Its in the 360. This is the RPG THAT ARE WE WAITING FOR... 
 Then its Eterna Sonata and Mass Effect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarwiz78
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  i had been waiting for a long time for a Hironobu Sakaguchi rpg his last project final fantasy 
 10 was the last good rpg till now i did import this from japan on december 2006 it came with xbox 
 face plate and action figures i loved it and now its finaly in the states im going through this 
 version right now only thing is is i like the japanesse voice acting better but you can choose 
 to here it in japanesse as far as the game goes it is a masterpiece with final fantasy music composer 
 nobuo uematsu its hard to top his sound tracks in video games ive not seen it done yet hironobu 
 sakaguchi the man behind final fantasy and akira toriyama the artist of dragon quest and dragon 
 ball z there could be only one rpg that has a chance at topping this and that is lost odyssey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walton31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game has plenty to boast about: The unique usage of dragons as your attacking abilites, stealing 
 the same concept used in Final Fantasy 10-2 whereby each character can use all of the classes available 
 such as Black Magic, White Magic, Sword Master and a class that can steal and so on.
  
  It has great voice acting along with some catchy background music.
  
  Plenty of replay value 
 and unlockables.
  
  Pretty difficult achievments to get, which is good :)
  
  It also has very crisp graphics, no pixelation, :)
  
  However:
  
  I dont, to be honest 
 think its going to be that long, having three discs is just fake hope, you will change to the second 
 disc only about 15 hours into the game.
  
  It reminds me to much of Dragon Quest 8, dont get me wrong i loved that game , but Blue Dragon 
 just seems like another RPG where you have to save the world from the evil dude, who you will obviously 
 kill.
  
  Also whats with the end boss's both in this and Dragon Quest looking so soft. We want to see big, 
 ugly, mean looking end bosses not some sappy purple guy who needs help getting out of his floating 
 chair.
  
  
  Rated 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenobane
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I might not own this game just yet but after playing it at my friends house.. i love it it reminds 
 me of FF7 alot. just with the turn based fighting and the seemingly long gameplay. sometimes these 
 type of games can be frustrating when your not high enough level to beat a boss or you search for 
 an item hours on end and turns out its somewhere else... but all these little things make the game 
 fun if you truly think about it.. leveling up can be annoying but when you reach that level you 
 want to be you feel relief and thankful you done it this is truly a game i will buy when i get 
 the money. it really is old school aswell as the turn based fighting has been around for quite 
 some time. this game is really big in japan it was the most anticipated game of the year in japan 
 goes to show how many people love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Interesting set of characters, superbly composed music, great voice acting, basic yet 
 very deep battle and character customization system, beautiful graphics, a massive and immersive 
 world to explore, the experience spands over 3 discs
  
  The Bad: Lacks in challenge, unstable framerate hurts an otherwise gorgeus looking game
  
  
 Young lad Shu is having a good time relaxing and wathing over his peaceful little village of his 
 when suddenly a dark purple mist fills the area, everyone runs to shelter but not Shu as he conftronts 
 the threat and quickly gets joined my his best friend Jiro and their female friend Kluke. The threat 
 they are facing is some sort of land shark that once every year has striked the village and everytime 
 almost destroying but Shu and his friends have decided that this has to come to a stop, especially 
 since both of Kluke's parents have been lost to the land shark. So the tree of them confronts it 
 in battle and and manage to capture it, at least so they think when it suddenly breaks loose and 
 takes Shu and his friends with it eventually up towards the skies.
  That is just the start of an around 50 hour long adventure.
  
  Yup you read it correctly, 50 
 hours maybe more depending how you play. The game even spands over 3 DVDs, mostly because the game 
 is packed with beautiful CG cutscenes, so I think you'll defiantly get your moneys worth if you're 
 a fan of the genre and looking for a lenghty and storydriven experience.
  
  The game's story while it doesn't take many chances it's lifted by the well written dialog along 
 with perhaps not the most original but really cool and interesting set of characters. To get straight 
 to the point the story stays intersting enough trough the entire experience you can't help yourself 
 to sit back and wondering what's gonna happen next. An interesting thing about the cutscenes that 
 carries most of the story forward except that they all look gorgeus is that many of them are also 
 rendered in realtime and they switch back and forth with the GC ones real nicely and sometimes 
 you don't instantly notice that some of them are prerendered as the characther and environments 
 almost carries the same amount of detail in realtime, wich is honeslty quite impressive as it's 
 someting not often seen in games. That prerendered cutscenes are even included in game have become 
 more and more rare these days.
  
  Another thing that suprised me was when I visited the Goro village, a village I could have completely 
 ignored if I wanted to had this side quest that also featured these beatiful cutscenes just like 
 in the main story quest. Defiantly something I wanna see in more games from now on.
  
  The gameplay pretty much follows the basic eastern rpg structure though with a few twists. For 
 one thing there are no random encounters in Blue Dragon as each group of enemies can be seen on 
 the field and therefor be avoided most of the time if you don't feel like battleing them, there 
 are also some field skills that you later get that you can use to stun your enemies before the 
 fight, taking them by suprise by attacking frim behind, and battle many groups of enemies at once 
 some that will even fight eachoter as they might not get along all too well.
  
  Once in a battle you will attack by turns as most people playing these types of games should be 
 familiar with, thankfully the battlesystem has a few key features wich feels it from being dated. 
 One thing is that some attacks can be charged for greater damage but the more you charge the more 
 turns it will take for the attack to actually strike, wich will make you think several turns ahead 
 each battle wich makes things a bit more interesting. What kind of formation you have will also 
 matter as it decides how much damage each of your character will take and duel out, someting that 
 also a bit of extra bit of strategy to it all. I personally keep my strong physical combatants 
 in the front and the magicians in the back, along with a few other strategies I have thought out, 
 but explaining each and every aspect of the battlesystem would take forever so I'll leave some 
 things for you to find out yourselfs.
  The battlesystem may not be as innovative as the one found in the quite recently released Final 
 Fantasy XII for instanse but it ads a whole new layer to the old and classic turn based battlesystem. 
 The game starts of fairly easy though so that will have the time you need to master the system 
 and build up your own strategies, problem is once the game steps it up you will become so good 
 at it that almost nothing will be able to stand in your way, that's why some might find Blue Dragon 
 is a bit easier than one would have liked and therfor lacks any real challenge, though I've heard 
 there will be a hard mode up later for download at some point.
  
  The customization of your character is also basic but very deep aswell, as you rank up you will 
 eventually unlock new classes for your shadows that you use in battle and depending wich class 
 you choose you will have a different set of skills at your disposal, switch classes often and you 
 get a balanced characther but do not gain to most powerful of skills, and if you only focus on 
 maxing out one skill you will be become more powerful but not very balanced. Simple yet deep.
 
  You can also enhance your characters abilites by equiping them with earings, necklaces etc. wich 
 will have their own unique effects in battle.
  
  The graphics in the game are most of the time gorgeus, things like the sky, lakes and some caverns 
 may be breathtaking to look at and all the cutscenes in the game looks great. Most of the time 
 the game runs smooth at around 30 fps with perhaps a screen tear here and there. The are sometimes 
 though but not too often the framerate might drop to as much as half the speed wich isn't all that 
 great, but the game can actually also speed up to like 60 fps, perhaps more. So the game could 
 defiantly have used some optimizing locking the framerate. But it's the only thing that huts this 
 otherwise really beautiful game and stands as once of the most impressive looking japanese developed 
 games for the system, even with it's unfortunate issues.
  
  The music composed by the legendary Nobuo Uematsu, wich most Final Fantasy should know about. And 
 I can gladly tell you that the music in this game is absolutely superb, so beautiful, full and 
 emtion and atmosphere. It might not reach up to the godlike soundtrack found in Final Fantasy VII, 
 but Nobuo certainly haven't lost his touch.
  The only thing there is to complain about really about the music is that rock/metallish boss theme 
 that actually pretty decent until the former Deep Purple singer opens is mouth of his. I usually 
 like metal quite alot and Dee Purple are pretty decent but this song just feels cheesy and a also 
 bit annoying. Thankfully it does not play every bossfight.
  
  The voice acting in this game is also top notch especially the original japanese speach, something 
 I'm really glad that you can choose since us from the west most of the time have to settle with 
 english voice over. The english voices work too, but if you have no trouble reading subttles defiantly 
 go with the Japanese voice track.
  
  Overall Blue Dragon stands as a great roleplaying game, it may not reach up to the team's former 
 creation Chrono Trigger nor the best Final Fantasy games and does really do anything to reinvent 
 the genre, but it has the whole package with great gameplay, graphics and sound and a very lengthly 
 and intersting story to boot and it takes the old eastern rpg concept and makes it all feel fun 
 and fresh again. Blue Dragon quite simply feels like a breeze of fresh air, something the genre 
 hasn't had for quite sometime and defiantly one of the very best roleplaying experiences you will 
 have this year if you go out and pick this gem up at you local gamestore.
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanlawford
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  After the demo that was recently released on Xbox Live Marketplace, I was somewhat nervous about 
 the final outcome of such a hyped-up game. It was mediocre, and that is pushing it. Why? It's turn 
 based. I can hear you all saying What are you on about? Turn based has worked for years! . Whilst 
 that is true, the format has recently died a somewhat ungraceful death with the RPG genre focusing 
 much more heavily on the active battling, or in the case of Final Fantasy XII, turn based battling 
 for the lazy. Turn based battle systems have therefore been detoxed from our systems and often 
 seem slow and unnecessary. The demo does little to stray from this feeling. With a turn based battle 
 system, a fantastic story is essential and amazing in-game features to add to that ugh, more grinding... 
 feeling. In a demo, we don; t get to see this story, nor the features and the displayed levels do 
 nothing to promote the games fantastic engine. It suffers from slow down, and the English voice-overs, 
 whilst appropriate are grating.
  
  It was then, a surprise to see that the actual game is truly enjoyable from the first moment. To 
 begin with, I opened the box and saw 3 discs. This shocked me. I had only been told of 2. I am 
 not yet far enough into the game to tell you of how well the game is paced, and whether the length 
 is truly necessary, but it is somewhat satisfying to see multiple discs when it has been so rare 
 since Final Fantasy 9.
  
  The game itself runs as you expect (ie. put in disc tray and it loads.) There is no initial Microsoft 
 and Mistwalker Studios sort of intro either. You are taken directly to the menu. I must confess 
 that I have not kept the English voiceovers. I started immediately with Japanese. For the sake 
 of this European review, I probably should have chosen English- but 3 DVDs? No thanks. I did hope 
 that the in-game settings would allow me to slip between languages seamlessly, but as far as I 
 am aware you must retain the same language throughout.
  
  So- a new game. What amazed me from the outset is the graphical engine. Immediately you are thrown 
 into the game, being able to move the character and change camera angles, despite the game credits 
 fading into the foreground. It is, in a sense, a self-created intro to the game. The beginning 
 movie is also fantastic, with [Japanese] lip syncing perfectly and a brilliant voice cast as well 
 as the stylised animation which really adds to the feel. The gameplay itself is odd. It is somewhat 
 familiar to anyone who has played an RPG. You run around and you talk to people, and you kill things. 
 Thankfully though random encounters have been wiped. All enemies can be seen before hand and with 
 the fantastic in-game mechanics battles are reliant on your actions before hand. Did you strike 
 first in the field, or did they catch you from behind? It is far more in depth later in the game, 
 but it helpfully steps you into the experience. Its not too slow nor too fast making it ideal for 
 beginners and veterans alike. One flaw that stood out from the start is unnecessary sections of 
 play time. There are moments where 2 steps will take you to a cut scene. Its not bad, so to speak, 
 but its a shame that you can't just play, or sit back and watch like a movie.
  
  The battle system itself is perhaps overly familiar. Nothing is really new, despite the shadow 
 monsters. Its all just selecting your moves etc. It is quick though, allowing the careless to rapidly 
 tap and get through with relative ease. Its obviously not a hard game, but for gamers like me this 
 isn't bad. RPGs are all about the storyline, not the repetitive battles after all. Using the field 
 to your advantage helps to give it a more involving feel too, so experimentation always helps to 
 detach you from the grinding experience which inevitably lies beneath the gorgeous surface. Character 
 customisation lacks innovation also, using a reasonably linear class system but its enough to sink 
 your teeth into without having to sepnd hours organising your stats.
  
  The game is somewhat quirky. The script contains some fun things to keep you occupied when in the 
 field, most notably, and I quote You have found a poo. Would you like to search it? It is just 
 the occasional inflections that truly bring the game to life. Now I come to the 2 flaws I have 
 encountered in my short play of the game. Despite being vastly improved from the demo- the game 
 still suffers from extensive slow down. It isn't particularly bad but just enough to be annoying. 
 Occasionally frames will skip, but most commonly, what seems like a steady 30 fps, will drop down 
 to a noticeable 18. Achievements are also notoriously impossible with some requiring you to achieve 
 things first time at various points in the game or fail to get the SECRET achievements. If you 
 could see when you needed to go back to previous saves it would be far less of an issue, but for 
 completionists like me it is impossible to achieve without previously looking things up online. 
 The game is strong and definitely worth your money and time but the lack of originality drags it 
 down. Like the only RPG currently on Xbox 360 (Enchanted Arms) this does nothing new with the genre 
 and is therefore somewhat forgettable. At least it would be, if it didn't take you so damn long 
 to complete. Whilst the graphical style is different, environments are often plain and thus not 
 really pushing it. The music, despite being very hyped up is truly average, wih some tracks being 
 very muteable. It is fun to play, but whether all the hours it offers are worth drawing out is 
 down to you. For me, it certainly is, but played sparingly. After all, you should never have to 
 much of a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scat-mgduffs
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  this has to be one of the best rpg, s iv played on the 360 blue dragon was worth my 45pounds and 
 i no its going to last its 3 discs its made by the FF7 creaters and the dragon quest desiner can 
 this game be any better the fighting system orignal and extreamly fun the graphix rich and full 
 of couler and the charicters are anoying at first but after 4 houers of playing im use to them 
 the villages are good and the story a adventure its got the great levleing up bit and the fun battle 
 system if u loved the old FF series i would recomend you get this. this must have to be the best 
 turn-based fighting rpg on the 360 and on original xbox since FF 13 and 7 and if u dont no what 
 FF stands for then you wudent under stand why this game is so great p. s their may be some spelling 
 mistakes and iv said 10 houers or less because iv ony just got it but i will hit the over 100 houers 
 mark lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsdavis6
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Ok so... i loved FF7 a lot... now im not going to say this is better then it... because its not... 
 nothing will ever do what FF7 did to me, it was my first RPG and the graphics for the time were 
 amazing. This, the graphics are very good for today, but not amazing. The game is consistently 
 of a high quality in all departments. I would probably say this is in my top 3 RPG's. The story 
 isnt the greatest in the world but i would say the gameplay certainly makes up for it. Perhaps 
 a bit too many interactive objects though, for example you can walk over to just about every random 
 stone and find at least 10 gold if not an item. This can get quite boring so it is quite easy to 
 miss what you may see as an important item. Overall a great game and certainly worth investing. 
 Im about half way through the second disc now 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
