-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bomberman: Act Zero
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/bombermanactzero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Everything you enjoyed about previous Bomberman games has been stripped out of this one.
 Ugly graphics and lifeless sound design.
 Shallow gameplay that gets old after about five minutes.
 No offline multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.9
Critic Score: 3.3, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 3.0, 692 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Action
Date: Aug 29, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Act Zero takes the Bomberman series to a new low with paper-thin gameplay, ugly visuals, and an 
 overall lack of effort. 

  Bomberman has been around for more than 20 years, and although the series is most definitely a 
 classic video game franchise, it's been heading steadily downhill over the past decade. There have 
 been a dozen or more games on platforms from the Nintendo 64 to the N-Gage, and the vast majority 
 of them have been disappointing. But in what could be a stroke of pure marketing genius on the 
 part of Hudson, a new game for the Xbox 360, called Bomberman: Act Zero, has been released, and 
 it somehow makes all of the mediocre Bomberman games of the past 10 years seem fantastic by comparison. 
 In fact, the only purpose Bomberman: Act Zero serves, and the only distinction it achieves, is 
 to take the series to absolute rock bottom so there's nowhere left to go but up from here.  

          What the heck happened to Bomberman?!?     

  The first misstep of Bomberman: Act 
 Zero is apparent even before you start playing the game. Act Zero eschews the charming, iconic 
 style of the classic Bomberman games in favor of a grim, futuristic motif. Instead of the cute 
 bubble-headed Bombermen, you get a couple of nondescript human characters outfitted with some cheap-looking 
 armor (available in eight different colors) . And instead of the bright, colorful, and creative 
 stages of previous Bomberman games, you get a dark, dingy room to do battle in. Act Zero attempts 
 to justify the new look with a new story. It turns out that there's an underground prison where 
 humans are kept as test subjects. You are one of those humans, and you have to become Bomberman 
 so you can fight your way through 99 repetitive, joyless levels to escape.  

  There are three ways to play Bomberman: Act Zero. You can play on Xbox Live against up to seven 
 other players in world battle mode, or you can play through as many of the 99 levels as possible 
 with only one life and no continues in the single battle mode. There's no way to save your game 
 and pick it up later in single-player mode, so if you want to beat the game, you have to play through 
 all 99 levels in one go, which is difficult not so much because of the way the game challenges 
 your gaming skills, but because of the way it challenges your patience.  

  In Bomberman: Act Zero you are dropped into a rectangular room that's full of both breakable and 
 unbreakable blocks. You run around in this area dropping bombs, destroying blocks, and collecting 
 power-ups, with the ultimate goal being to blow up your opponent. There isn't too much strategy 
 involved in the game. You just have to try to corner your opponent so he has nowhere to run from 
 your bomb or surround him with bombs so he gets caught in the cross fire. That's easier said than 
 done when you're battling several opponents at once, and if you aren't careful, it's easy to get 
 blown up by one of your own bombs as well. That's the basic idea of Bomberman, and it's been that 
 way forever. In Act Zero, however, Hudson decided to change up the rules for some reason.  

  The new gameplay variation in Act Zero is called FPB, which stands for "first-person bomber." 
 Don't let the name fool you; it isn't actually a first-person Bomberman game. Instead, you get 
 a behind-the-back view of your character as you run around the 3D level dropping bombs. Not only 
 does this view make it much harder to see what's going on, but it's also frustrating because the 
 nature of the game requires you to constantly and quickly change directions. Since the camera doesn't 
 keep up with your movements, you have to constantly adjust your view with the right analog stick. 
 The perspective isn't the only thing that's different in FPB mode. In this mode you have a health 
 bar, which means that you can walk right into a bomb blast without dying. That's a major departure 
 from the one-bomb-one-kill rule of classic Bomberman. The result is a completely watered-down version 
 of the tense, frantic gameplay the series is known for.  

  There is an option to play the game in standard mode, which is more akin to the classic Bomberman 
 style of game. In this mode you have a top-down view of the entire map, which makes it much easier 
 to see what's going on and doesn't require you to mess around with the camera all the time. In 
 standard mode there's also no life bar. Instead, you die as soon as you get blasted. You can get 
 special items that let you survive a blast, but for the most part the standard rules make the game 
 a lot more interesting.  

          First-person bomber mode is just as useless and unenjoyable as it sounds.     

  In 
 both the standard and FPB modes, you can collect a variety of power-ups to increase your offensive 
 and defensive capabilities. You can get speed boosts, items to increase the range and number of 
 your bombs, and special items that allow you to walk through breakable bricks. There are fewer 
 than a dozen items in all, though, which makes the game feel simplistic and sparse even compared 
 to the 16-bit games that were released more than 10 years ago.  

  The multiplayer game in Act Zero is disappointing as well. For one thing, there isn't even an option 
 for offline multiplayer. There are certain types of games that are just more fun when played with 
 a room full of friends, and Bomberman is definitely one of those games. If you remember the days 
 of playing four-player Super Bomberman 2 on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, the lack of 
 multiplayer in this game will seem like a massive oversight. At least there is online multiplayer 
 available for up to eight players. You can battle it out in either ranked or unranked matches, 
 and there is a world leaderboard so you can see how you compare to all the other unfortunate people 
 who were duped into purchasing this game. You can choose to play either standard or FPB mode online, 
 although, not surprisingly, standard mode is by far the favored choice of players online. Unless 
 you convince plenty of other people to purchase this game, though, you'll have a difficult time 
 finding a game with a full eight players. At most you might find three other players to battle 
 with. Even if you do find a battle, the fun won't last long. Just as the rest of Act Zero, the 
 multiplayer battles feel completely thin on content. There are a few items to collect, but just 
 about every battle ends up feeling exactly the same because the game is so shallow.  

  As if all that weren't bad enough, Bomberman: Act Zero looks and sounds bad as well. The graphics 
 look like an early generation Xbox game. If you play in high definition, you'll see some shiny 
 and bumpy textures, but the character models and environments still look ugly. The explosion effects 
 come in two different colors, but they don't look impressive in any way. And just when you thought 
 the game couldnt get any lower, you'll see ridiculous and completely unnecessary bouncing breasts 
 on the female character model. The fact that the developer took the time to program something as 
 asinine as breast physics but couldn't be bothered to fix the game is indicative of the quality 
 of the overall effort in Act Zero.  

          There are Xbox Live Arcade games that look better than this.     

  The sound is no 
 better than the visuals in Act Zero. There's a single, robotic female voice that tells you when 
 you've passed a level or when you pick up an item, and there's one weak explosion noise, but beyond 
 that there's very little to listen to in the game. There is a generic rock track that loops in 
 the background, but it's so forgettable that you could mute the game for the same effect.  

  Bomberman: Act Zero is nothing short of a complete rip-off, especially at full price. With only 
 a couple of modes, no offline multiplayer, no save system, and a weak and repetitive single-player 
 game, it has less to offer than many free demos on Xbox Live Marketplace. You can earn some achievement 
 points by breaking a certain number of blocks, or by surviving a certain number of rounds, but 
 it's not worth playing this game just to get the points. If Act Zero were released as an Xbox Live 
 Arcade game for a fraction of the price, it might almost be passable. As it is, it's simply a waste 
 of your time and money.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the latest adaptation of a long-running series. You play the nimble competitor whose 
 job it is to, well, blow stuff up. Yet your game is not all simple: there's someone at the other 
 end of the arena, and they're doing the same thing. 
  
  You are trapped in a giant maze. You must set bombs and run away in order to clear out blocks of 
 the maze, without getting yourself destroyed in the process. Across the room, there is someone 
 else doing the same thing. So it's a simple, yet clever game, where you must sort of solve a maze 
 in reverse -- not so much get out of it, as find places where you can duck behind a wall until the 
 flames from the bombs die down. Your enemy has a chance to pick up the same power-ups as you do. 
 This was one of my favorite elements, as it adds a lot of challenge and makes the game even more 
 tense.
  
  
  The only thing I really didn't enjoy about this title is the change in the traditional look of 
 the character. They went for giant bug-like metal suits, instead of the cute little round helmet 
 seen in previous games. I wish they would have made the old suit an option, or at least something 
 you could earn along the way. Nevertheless, if you're looking for some good old arcade-style fun, 
 this title may be one to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  +Announcer sounds kinda cool.
  +New future theme is alot better than the lame cartoon theme.
  +Passible Metal music.
  +Graphics 
 are slightly passible.
  +FPS bomberman is a good addition.
  +Ability to create your own room.
  +Bomberwomen are occasionally attractive.
  
  -Shallow 
 gameplay.
  -No offline multiplayer.
  -No lives, saves, or checkpoints.
  -Weak custom character creation.
  -Online is completly empty.
  -Story is completly stupid.
 
  -Most powerups stripped away.
  ---
  
  
  
  
  Act Zero is EXACTLY what this game is: zero. 
  
  Ok, fine, maybe it is fun for weekends, but 
 when you rack up for the scores on which one is the worst game ever in your collection, Bomberman 
 Act zero comes mighty close. Not that Bomberman has been a fairly good series, but fans will be 
 brought to tears at the sight of this game, and newcomers will stray away.
  
  
  
  
  The first thing you will notice is that Bomberman has changed totally. Somewhere between the time 
 you looked at the box, and the time where you turned off your 360 consle in fusteration, you'll 
 notice the cartoony style has been replaced with cyber-future darkness. Instead of bright, colorful 
 bubble head bomberman, you get black, ink-covered human with colored armor brutally nailed into 
 their flesh. You are one of these poor souls. Your trapped, along with the other miserble cyberhumans 
 in a large testing lab where horriying medical experiments are performed on humans. Your memory 
 stripped from you, you have your only nature instinct: Escape. As a cyborg, you plan to reach the 
 top of the testing lab your trapped in to escape. You do so by fighting through 99 bomberman-gameplay 
 styled levels. The levels are all large research labs with metal blocks littered with them to make 
 it like a classic bomberman maze. All the levels look pretty dark, and only change 1 or 2 different 
 textures every once in a while. See, that's already a mildly lame story, and its even lamer by 
 the fact that "your so cold, you don't remember who you are" and the rest of that emo stuff Hudson 
 crammed in the instruction booklet. Hudson doesn't tell why fighting 99 other cyborgs is gonna 
 help you escape. Still, its better than the pointless, cartoon bobble-headed freaks. 
  
  
  
  The whole point of the game is simple; Drop some bombs to trap your opponent in a bunch 
 of blocks til he gets in the crossfire, or gets crushed by a giant block falling from the sky (when 
 time almost runs out, sudden death is falling blocks fall down, crushing anybody in their path) . 
 Two gamemodes are included: Standard and FPB (First Person Bomberman) . Appearantly, Hudson didn't 
 know what first-person was, so instead you get a close up view of Bomberman in FPB, and an overhead 
 view in Standard. There isn't even an option for offline multiplayer, which sounds completly rediculous, 
 coming from an old-school party game. Another outrageous thing is that there are no saves or checkpoints 
 whatsoever in the game. And there are 99 levels. So, for instance, your on the 97th level and you 
 slip up and die, you will have to start all over again from level 1. Rivetingly horrendous.
  
  The game features an online mode however, and unless your connected to xbox live, you are unable 
 to save your stats or anything. They just instantly die the minute you hit the power. And absoulutly 
 nobody is online, so you probably won't use the online mode much at all.
  
  
  
  Bomberman: Act Zero features a CAGE mode as well. That's where you choose either a poor male or 
 female soul and torture him by implanting armor onto him or her. Basically, its a create-a-bomberman. 
 Its features are limited to choosing male or female models, and selecting 9 colors for the armor. 
 That's it. And, like I said before, if you aren't connected to live, it'll disapear when you shut 
 the game off. Although the female models can be extremly attractive, it still feels weak in general.
 
  
  
  The graphics look like an early generation xbox game, and they look alot better than most modern 
 360 games today. The sound has a few bombs exploding, and a female robot voice telling you when 
 you've won a match, but other than that, there's not too much quaking. The music features some 
 generic dark, future scary music, metal music, and the annoying online menu rock music, but only 
 one or two of the tracks are worth listening to.
  
  
  I'm not a big fan of bomberman at all, and even at one of the best in series, Hudson makes YET 
 another crapish product. Other than rare fun on the weekends, and some mind-improving, Bomberman: 
 Act Zero is... well, zero. It isn't even worth renting. Due to the lack of saves, you won't survive 
 long enough to get the acheivements. Pretty much everything in the game is stated in the review. 
 And that's why this wall of text is so short. All you need to know is that even though the game 
 is occasionally good, its not good enough to glance at.
  
  
  Nice going, Hudson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman's a legend in the video game world. There's something to be said about the wonderfully 
 simplistic, yet addictive gameplay where all you do is run around a field, drop bombs and blow 
 stuff up (namely, your opponents) . It apparently worked well enough to spawn a successful franchise 
 that spans nearly every console made thus far. Even the 360. That said, the decision to bring Bomberman 
 into a new spectrum was one of arduous risk and, unfortunately, Hudson took it. The results were 
 disastrous. Bomberman Zero is a game that should be avoided at all costs.
  
  Though the premise hasn't changed, the visual style has. No longer the cute and endearing little 
 cartoon spaceman, our titular hero's now a full fledged, sci-fi, body suit. You can change their 
 colors and its gender -- not much in the way of customization. The character models are nicely 
 done, and the graphics are very stylized and futuristic. But then, you begin playing the game, 
 and that's when things start going downhill real fast.
  
  The way the system is set up is that it's basically Bomberman having a tryst with a first-person 
 shooter. The field is arranged in the very same manner as is customary of previous (and much better) 
 Bomberman games. And the rules are fundamentally the same. You run around the field, lay bombs 
 and hope your opponent on the other end is caught up in the ensuing fiery blast. The familiar power-up 
 icons have made the transition, but you wouldn't know it at first because that system's been reorganized 
 to fit the dark and brooding theme of the game. (There are even some new, exclusive power-ups as 
 well.) When you play the game, the camera shifts into a behind-the-back view -- very much like a 
 FPS. You can move the camera around using the shoulder buttons to get a better view of your playing 
 area to scope out your opponents. The game claims that this new view of the action adds to the 
 tension and anxiety you may feel if you were wandering in corridors, not knowing if either your 
 opponent, or a bomb waiting to go off, is around the corner. Believe what you will, but I think 
 all this does is serve as a useless gimmick.
  
  But keep in mind -- Bomberman is not supposed to behave like a first-person shooter. It only confuses 
 and compromises the spirit of what Bomberman's supposed to be, and how it was meant to be played. 
 Of course, there is an option to play the game in its classic view, but that only makes matters 
 worse because now your guys are as small as army ants and difficult to see.
  
  The standard mode has you clearing as many as 99 floors. Not exactly a story mode because there 
 isn't much of a story to tell -- that is, if you factor in its cerebral approach, which serves only 
 as a lame excuse for a story anyhow. Online multiplayer adds to the package somewhat -- as many as 
 eight people can take part in a match. 
  
  Overall, Bomberman Zero is an unfortunate failure. I give it points for trying to do something 
 different with the franchise, but in the end, such efforts fall on its face. I suppose some Bomberman 
 afficionados will find redeeming qualities, but they'd more likely be as disappointed as the rest 
 of us. To them I say; download Bomberman Live from the Marketplace instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk998
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Ok let me just say at first I got this game for my friend. Ok the bomber man series was a fun game 
 in the old times and I was looking to play this one just for the nostalgic feeling. Boy was I wrong. 
 Here are the problems :- 
  
  
  1) This Game character doesnt look like Bomber man.
  
  2) Levels and boring and repetitive.
  
  
  3) There are 99 levels in this and it doe snt have 
 a save system meaning if you suppose die in level 98 you have to start the entire game all over 
 again.
  
  4) There is an additional mode called First person Bombing which is basically a third person view 
 of the game. 
  
  5) My Pet cat can write a better story than the idiots who wrote it.
  
  6) Your Brain will start bleeding and also your eyes. So therefore my fellow gamers heed my 
 word never play this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  Always rent before you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Well, the best place to start, is at the beginning... alright, I don't know where the beginning 
 is on this game, as there is NO END.
  
  If you are considering to buy this game -- kill yourself. If you haven't played it, you haven't died. 
 This game is the essence of bad gaming. When I saw the cover, I thought, 'Oh, Jeez! This could 
 be awesome. I mean, its got a firey background, and everything, it must be great,' my expectations 
 were about 37 miles off from even a close perspective of a good game. Seriously, did the game designers 
 just take a bunch of rotten games, and put them into a dumpster and, the new guy just mistakes 
 it as the "Good Games."
  
  This game does not entertain you, it only aggravates you more. A mental kick-in-the-balls. And 
 the not the type to wake you up either. I really can't begin to tell you how terrible this game 
 is. Maybe there's some moral value in this game; Don't get abducted by crazy people who'll turn 
 you into a cyborg. 
  
  The graphics? Dear god, it's as if they took 1976 gameplay and put it into a double barrel shotgun, 
 fired it, and used the remains as the graphic directions. Honestly, how did this game get past 
 act negative-one?
  
  This game is an absolute insult to humanity. In conclusion, this game is, literally, the worst 
 game I played. My friend played McDonald games that were more fun. If you get this -- it's now fire 
 wood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlashDementia3
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Bomberman: Act Zero, what a cheesy name. Bomberman used to be fun during its Nintendo and N64 days, 
 but has now been downgraded to whatever this is supposed to be.
  
  The story.. I don't even know it, I didn't tell me when I started playing. But this game could 
 have been good if they realized the true potential.
  
  Gameplay is fine, it's not great.. It's playable, nothing is wrong there, the only thing is the 
 lack of power-ups and moves from past Bomberman games.
  
  Graphics are not so good, the levels are pretty much the same. There are no different looking levels 
 or anything, just the same thing over and over.
  
  Bomberman: Act Zero also lacks local multi-player and only provides online games and the two main 
 modes FPA and Standard. In FPA, you have hit-points and once you run out, you die. Standard is 
 just one hit and you're out.
  
  There are 99 levels in this game and you only get one life. I don't understand why they did this, 
 but if you ever consider getting it, know that the online community is dead, and you're only playing 
 this by yourself.
  
  Graphics: 5/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Story: 1/10
  SFX: 2/10
  
  It would have been better for Xbox Live Arcade. If you want something to spend little time on, 
 this game hardly cost anything anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't even own a Bomberman game and I still know that this isn't Bomberman. What this should 
 be called is crap because that is what it is. Seriously, you get ONE life and there are like 90 
 levels so if you die, you are screwed and have to start all over again. The people pretending to 
 look like Bomberman are ugly and repulsive and just aren't Bomberman. I haven't even played this 
 game, (no sorry this shouldn't even be called a game) this crap and I know it sucks but that is 
 because I saw a video review on it. THIS HAS TO BE THE WORST ATTEMPT OF MAKING A GAME EVER. Maybe 
 even worse than Big Rigs (okay maybe not that bad but right there with it) . TO THE MAKERS OF BOMBERMAN: 
 YOU HAVE RUINED THIS GREAT FRANCHISE OF A GAME WITH THE CRAP BOMBERMAN ACT ZERO!!! DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME, DO NOT LOOK AT THIS GAME, DO NOT EVEN THINK ABOUT THIS GAME!!! If there was an award for 
 WORST GAME EVER, Bomberman Act Zero would be a finalist for it. THIS GAME BLOWS!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin30851
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Unlike many, I liked the style of the game. It was cool. However the gameplay was not. Let me tell 
 you about the plot. You are a human escaping from an underground lab testing on humans. You have 
 to go through 99 levels to win. 
  
  Bomberman has been around for more than 20 years, and although the series is most definitely a 
 classic video game franchise, it's been heading steadily downhill over the past decade. There have 
 been a dozen or more games on platforms from the Nintendo 64 to the N-Gage, and the vast majority 
 of them have been disappointing. But in what could be a stroke of pure marketing genius on the 
 part of Hudson, a new game for the Xbox 360, called Bomberman: Act Zero, has been released, and 
 it somehow makes all of the mediocre Bomberman games of the past 10 years seem fantastic by comparison. 
 In fact, the only purpose Bomberman: Act Zero serves, and the only distinction it achieves, is 
 to take the series to absolute rock bottom so there's nowhere left to go but up from here. 
  
  You can play on Xbox Live against up to seven other players in world battle mode, or you can 
 play through as many of the 99 levels as possible with only one life and no continues in the single 
 battle mode. You can't save your game. However the game isn't very challenging. But you do get 
 challenged on if you can stan playing the game for the 99 levels.
  
  In Bomberman: Act Zero you are dropped into a rectangular room that's full of both breakable and 
 unbreakable blocks. You run around in this area dropping bombs, destroying blocks, and collecting 
 power-ups, with the ultimate goal being to blow up your opponent. There isn't too much strategy 
 involved in the game. You just have to try to corner your opponent so he has nowhere to run from 
 your bomb or surround him with bombs so he gets caught in the cross fire. However it will be harder 
 will multiple enemies trying to do the same with you. It has been like that forever. The formula 
 works. But for some reason the creators said no, let's not use a game mechanic that works. 
  
  The new gameplay variation in Act Zero is called FPB, which stands for "first-person bomber." 
 The thing is that the game isn't really first person though. You go directly behind the human with 
 the camera view. These means you can't see whats going on and where are bombs and other players. 
 Also there is a health bar. Because now it takes multiple hits to die, the game isn't as frantic 
 as the original games and is less fun.
  
  There is an option to play the game in standard mode, which gives you a top-down view of the entire 
 map, which makes it able what's going on and doesn't make you to mess around with the camera all 
 the time. In standard mode there's also no life bar. Instead, you die as soon as you get blasted. 
 You can get special items that let you survive a blast, but for the most part the standard rules 
 make the game a lot more like the original and more fun.
  
  In both modes, you can collect a variety of power-ups to increase your offensive and defensive 
 power. You can get speed boosts, items to increase the range and number of your bombs, and special 
 items that allow you to walk through breakable bricks. There are less than a dozen power-ups though 
 and makes it more simplistic like the early bomberman games.
  
  The multiplayer game in Act Zero is horrible too. There isn't even an option for offline multiplayer. 
 Bomberman will be more funn played together than with a friend being far away. The lack of it really 
 lessens the value of he multiplayer. Thogh there is online multiplayer available for up to eight 
 players. You can battle it out in either ranked or unranked matches, and there is a world leaderboard 
 so you can see how you compare to all the other unfortunate people who were duped into purchasing 
 this game. You can choose to play either standard or FPB mode online, although, not surprisingly, 
 standard mode is by far the favored choice of players online. Unless you convince plenty of other 
 people to purchase this game, though, you'll have a difficult time finding a game with a full eight 
 players. At most you might find three other players to battle with. Even if you do find a battle, 
 the fun won't last long. Just as the rest of Act Zero, the multiplayer battles feel completely 
 thin on content. There are a few items to collect, but just about every battle ends up feeling 
 exactly the same because the game is so shallow. 
  
  The sound and graphics are bad too. The music gets annoying and the sound effects aren't top-notch. 
 The graphics are chunky and bland at times. The graphics at times can be comparable to an XBox 
 Live game.
  
  Overall, this is a rip-off at full price. You could probably have more fun with the original version. 
 Overall, this is a horrible game. The game wouldn't even be worth it at less than a quarter of 
 the price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efielret
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman: Act Zero, what a cheesy name. Bomberman used to be fun during its Nintendo and N64 days, 
 but has now been downgraded to whatever this is supposed to be.
  
  The story.. I don't even know it, I didn't tell me when I started playing. But this game could 
 have been good, if they realized the true potential.
  
  Gameplay is fine, it's not great.. It's playable, nothing is wrong there, the only thing is the 
 lack of power-ups and moves from past Bomberman games.
  
  Graphics are not so good, the levels are pretty much the same. There are no different looking levels 
 or anything, just the same thing over and over.
  
  Bomberman: Act Zero also lacks local multi-player and only provides online games and the two main 
 modes FPA and Standard. In FPA, you have hit-points and once you run out, you die. Standard is 
 just one hit and you're out.
  
  There are 99 levels in this game and you only get one life. I don't understand why they did this, 
 but if you ever consider getting it, know that the online community is dead, and you're only playing 
 this by yourself.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Story: 1/10
  Sound: 5/10
  
  It would have been better for Xbox Live Arcade. If you want something to spend little time on, 
 this game hardly cost anything anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I like this game's stile a lot and I want a Act Zero 2, what I believe ruined this game is that 
 is wasn't 4P offline multiplayer.. instead it was just single player and why no single player missions? 
 c'mon.
  but I know, we all know this game was meant to be a Bomberman online, in "cool" stile for hardcore 
 Xbox shooter fans.
  but when I got there there game was empty.. not a single person playing this game online.
  I 
 only know 1 online friend that has this game and I haven't been able to play against him on it.
 
  I think this game is worth picking up when you're playing Xbox bored as hell and have nothing 
 to do.. you'd get some Xbox in-game scores for it.. but still, nothing.
  this game is cool and I want a sequel. the bad thing about this game is that it could have been 
 so much better. they stopped working on it too soon.. and what the hell were they thinking not 
 making any fun story modes or offline multiplayer modes at all. THAT's what ruined this game.
 
  but it's a good online game.. it's only worth picking up if you're a Bomberman fan or a Xbox game 
 collector, or if a friend has this game to play online with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hierark123
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Where oh where do I start!!!!!!! I am a Bomberman Live player (arcade one) and this makes me want 
 to die. The reasons, #1. They got rid of the classic cartoon bomberman and tried to make a Samus 
 knock off to look cool. #2 the explosions make me feel like i'm tripping out. #3 the graphics suck. 
 I got this for my friend and we played it and wanted to die. It is sum what fun if you enjoy the 
 concept its bomberman if you get past all of the grime and scum. Another problem is live. No one 
 plays it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Probaly no one plays the game!!!!!!!! My friend played it though for 
 the achievements. All in all, it sucks, dont play it, dont buy it, if anything, rent it at the 
 most! If you want to see it yourself, RENT IT!
  
  
  In total
  
  2/10
  
  Im ashame of you  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris-Flame
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman, you had the charm, cute looking, fun to play, simple, but..
  Now you became this darker, horrible looking "Thing", look like Master Chief and Venom having babies. 
 (Don't ask)
  
  Story - Well, Story is, that Bombermans fight to prove, who's best.
  That's all? Thi-thie-Thie-That's all, Folks!
  
  Gameplay - Boring. Camera was also Really Horrible. 
 And what's this?
  Health bar? Oh C'mon, It needs one hit from bomb to get destroyed..
  
  Grapfics - Hudson, New Bomberman looks horrible. Seriosly, who to get in mind, that: "Hey'! Let's 
 make him look like half-mechanic muscular guy, with big robot hand?" Hudson's smoking with Sega 
 something really bad.
  (Sega = Sonic Next-Gen)
  
  Overall - That makes it get 1.5. 0.5 points for, that
  I don't own this myself. I borrowed it 
 from my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I really don't have any words to describe this game. This game is absolutely horrible. They have 
 eliminiated local multiplayer and have killed everything that was great about the original bomberman. 
 
  Basically, this game has officially killed everythin that was great about Bomberman. They switched 
 him to be targeted to mature audiences. Basically there is 99 levels in total... and guess what??!??!?!?! 
 You have one freaking alive!!
  The AI is either a freaking retard or they are absolutely impossible to kill! I really don't know 
 what to say about this game... It absolutely sucks. Please, don't buy this game...
  IT REALLY IS HORRIBLE... IF YOU WANT TO KNOW HOW TO KILL A GREAT FRANCHISE... THEN THIS IS THE GAME 
 FOR IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Thsi game makes children cry. After playing this for about 20mins. u wanna shove a gun in ur mouth 
 and pull the trigger, Im sorry. i cant even write this review.
  
   dont have to buy it or rent it, or EVERY mention, 
 talk or think about it EVERY again.
  
  -Everything. Everyting is wrong with this game
  
  ?Why............. just why?
  
  ! If the terrorists really want to kill us, they need to steal 
 all copies of Bioshock, Halo3, Gears of War, and everything else, and replace it with this crap. 
 This is the game of Satan! Stay as far away as possible. i warned u.
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I personally dont see why everyone hates this game so much. I personally liked this game, and 
 found it fun to play. Now, before you start the hate fest, keep in mind that I have NEVER played 
 a Bomberman game before this. This was the first Bomberman game I ever picked up, and I tend to 
 like dark/mature games. Thus, I found this game appealing. Hudson provided a new, bare-bones storyline 
 along with the new art presentation. In the future, somewhere in an underground prison where humans 
 are kept as test subjects and trained to become soldiers, you are made into a soldier and must 
 become Bomberman to escape. Not the best storyline
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Technical: Bomberman: Act Zero dosent look the best. Gamespot noted that it looks like a first-gen 
 Xbox game. I disagree. Seriously, how far can you go with graphics in a game like this? Since this 
 game is aimed at mindless fun, its utterly pointless to go Cry Engine 2 worthy. Still, the game 
 looks pretty good. Although its nothing special, I must admit that there are a great deal of shiny 
 textures that do make the game appealing.
  
  Artistic: This is what I personally think everyone hated about the game. Everyone was used to the 
 cute, kid-friendly that is Bomberman and this is what kept so many people away from this game. 
 Personally, I like the artwork, and enjoyed the new theme a great deal.
  
  SOUND
  
  Music: There are about four tracks that loop in the game. Its nothing special, but after a while, 
 most gamers will most likely not even hear the music anymore. Still cool though.
  
  Sound effects: Pretty much the run of the mill sound effects, mainly explosions and a few others. 
 Again, nothing special. Voice acting: The voice acting consists of nothing but a generic monotone 
 voice that come son when you win a stage or die. Then, theres the scream of your enemies when 
 they die. Pretty stupid.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  THE GOOD: First of all, I found the FPB mode a whole lot of fun. Just the sheer fun of blowing 
 other people up, blowing up parts of the maze you do battle in, and the power-ups provided were 
 pretty cool. The remote control bombs I found especially cool, as you could use them to set traps. 
 There are also special power-ups that let you go through bombs and blocks, making it easier to 
 take out your enemies. Also, since its easy to trap yourself in your own bomb in this game, the 
 life bar gives newbies a fighting chance. However, you will lose some of your power-ups when you 
 get hit, but they can easily be re-collected as they become scattered throughout the mazes. Overall, 
 I found the FPB very tense at times, and was a lot of fun. The AI isnt the best, but theyre damn 
 good at dodging bombs, although they will occasionally blow themselves up. THE BAD: Unfortunately, 
 the traditional mode was a complete bore. You could hardly make out anything in that mode, making 
 it almost too easy to kill yourself. Every 5th stage, you are given a boss character to fight, 
 who is hugely overpowered. He will kill you in less than one minute if youre not careful, and 
 its especially dangerous when he has remote control bombs. Then theres the multiplayer. There 
 is no local multiplayer, which is ridiculous. Adding to that is the inability to save your game 
 at all, which is even more ridiculous. Theres 99 levels, and you have one life, and no continue. 
 If you die, even once, thats it, and you are thrown back to the title screen. Nobody plays online, 
 and there are hardly any modes to play on. The single player can get old, really fast, and lack 
 of any multiplayer hammers the overall experience greatly. Bomberman: Act Zero could have been 
 a whole lot better, but those factors kill the game.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed this game. Even though I dont play this game much, I always like to pick it 
 up for some mindless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlciceman
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is terrible. But to be fair the game has some Ups. First off Frame Rate. Frame Rate is 
 impervious. It never slows down ever over the net it runs like butter. The graphics are not bad 
 but they are not great. The levels are all the same, and no visuals. Cam angles suck and get really 
 awkward. Especially if your in a battle you might miss whos where. Gameplay. Its trash 100 levels 
 no checkpoints, save spots, or anything else. Its just one sit through of the game. 1 hit to die 
 and if you die you start back at level one. Sound. Bad voice acting and bad music that doesn't 
 seem to immerse you.
  Story. Where to begin. You find yourself at the bottom of this testing area and must fight up through 
 100 levels to escape the facility.
  
  This game is bad and is not a good addition for the gamers collection. You might want it to say 
 hey ive got Bomerman Act zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babyboy1123
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely TERRIBLE! Don't waste your time or money on this game. If you enjoy the 
 bomberman games, I would recommend the bomberman live game on XBOX live. The game play is fun and 
 fast and it is the type of game the entire family can play. Again, STAY AWAY for Bomberman: Act 
 Zero. I can remember ever playing a game this poor. In fact, this game is so bad, I am struggling 
 to meet the 100 word requirement when writing reviews. To that end, let me just say:
  
  This game is terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible 
 terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible 
 terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible 
 terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible 
 terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible 
 terrible terrible terrible terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  what else can I say? One hit you die, No extra lives, no continues, 99 levels of pure hell!, Enemies 
 that can either be dumb as rocks or so overpowered that you don't even get to breathe. That's really 
 all I can say about this crapload of ass. but if you want to hear more, go onto YouTube and look 
 up Armake21's review of this **** I would rather play Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde than this, or Dr. 
 Chaos, or Total Recall. Don't even think about putting it in your system or you might go insane 
 and break the game in two, along with the system.
  
  I wish i could give this **** 0/10 but i cant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  With the help of a ten dollar off coupon I was able to walk away with Bomberman Act Zero for 9.99 
 brand new. I am not sure why I have such an obsession with games that are normally rated as stinkers 
 but I had to see if it was as bad as many made it out to be. What I first realized is that many 
 of the reviews out there seem to be suffering from a sort of nostalgic outrage, because the reality 
 is had this game not been called Bomberman I don't think it would have been attacked so broadly. 
 It does not do justice to the bomberman series, and it makes an attempt to explain why these folks 
 are trying to kill each other in a room full of soft blocks, something most Bomberman fans don't 
 want to think about because we don't care. Putting aside the bias of the Super Bombermans of yesterday 
 that I enjoyed so much I find a game that is bad but certainly not terrible. Graphics: How much 
 can you really jazz up Bomberman before you start to take away from the core gameplay? Its better 
 looking then I any bomberman I have played before but it also casts aside the cartoony aspect of 
 the games of before and tries to give the series its own look, one that I really don't hate but 
 it does very little for me. Many of the Arenas are rather sterile and bland but that sort of goes 
 hand and hand with the storyline. The overview provides nothing special, the explosions look like 
 I would expect them to, the characters, blocks and pillars all also look just like what I would 
 expect. What is interesting is that once you switch to FPB mode the game starts to look a lot better, 
 except that the functionality of that mode at least I found is MUCH harder to work with then the 
 classic top down overview that we all know. Character models are interesting although they give 
 me the feeling of a dumbed down What we thought the Future would look like in 1985 feel to them 
 and that is really what hurt the whole thing for me. Customizing your bombermen or women is cool 
 but still rather limited and from the online play I am yet to see anyone be truly creative with 
 their design. Gameplay: The story is terrible, Basically you have to go through 100 levels to escape 
 this compound? Great. The item that really bothered me about the single player is that once you 
 are dead, you are dead. No continues nadda and that can be a really pain in the behind so much 
 so that it makes you rather jaded if you play too much single player, The Multiplayer seems to 
 be the games bread and butter and I have greatly enjoyed playing this game online, although since 
 so few people actually own the game the online community is very dry which can lead to more frustration. 
 The game itself plays very much like any other bomberman game you have played before, and even 
 if you haven't the controls are so basic that there should be little problem in picking it up in 
 less then ten minutes. Also the lack of a two player Offline mode is just tragic, the lack of a 
 four player mode is just wrong. Sound: Awful, just tragic. I will admit that hearing the Robotic 
 female voice saying You are Dead or You are Alive was entertaining at first but after a while it 
 generally just becomes painful. The explosions sound rather muted but all and all not too bad, 
 the sound you make when you die or anyone dies is pretty well equal to the pain you would experience 
 with nails on a chalkboard. Value: It really depends, I am looking at this game as generally costing 
 me the same as a more expensive Xbox Arcade title. If I paid 59.99 for this game I would be rather 
 angry, but for a low enough price point this will provide you with some entertainment online assuming 
 you can find anyone to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjak93
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I saw my friend play this game and think Microsoft tried to make a game that involved Bomberman, 
 by putting him in a futuristic suit that doesn't look like him at all, I mean why would they do 
 this to him and there would good games in the past, but no, this game is garbage, so don't waste 
 your time buying this game or even renting it, the classic Nintendo versions were good, not this 
 rip-off to get money. Microsoft did a good job with the Xbox Live Arcade version of him but not 
 this one, if not for the name you would not recognize him, he's like a complete different person, 
 the controls are stupid and lame the explosions are should be decent because that's why the game 
 is titled Bomberman , but, they fail even at that. The multi-player is just as bad as the single-player, 
 don't bother buying or renting this game at all costs it's a complete rip-off just to make money 
 like DRIV3R, DRIVER 4/PARALLEL LINES, and DRIVER 76, those games are rip-off clones of from GRAND 
 THEFT AUTO, so don't buy this game. Also the Graphics are just as terrible as a PS2 game, and the 
 Sound/Music is boring and you don't even want to listen to it because it is just terrible. The 
 game is bad and a complete rip-off, so don't buy this game just return it to the store (if you 
 can, if not BEG THEM) or to Blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigXten
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The only redeeming qualities? Graphics are OK (it is the 306 after all) , and the Gameplay core 
 is still the same. How they violated it is awful. I can't even talk about this game for 5 minutes 
 without another thought coming into my head, just like being at the mall before wondering when 
 the hell you'll get to McDonald's. Mmmm... french fries.
  
  Oh, I'm sorry. Where was I? Ah, yes. There is virtually nothing to like here expect if you love 
 sucky games, or if your favorite old-school games destroyed. If you like games like that, please 
 *don't* be my guest and play this game. Everyone else... stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megavideogamer
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Yep this game blows hyper-chucks, Actually if you try not to put this game in the Bomberman universe 
 at all. Pretend that you got it in a Burger King Combo. It still sucks. It lacks the Charm of the 
 real Bomberman Games. Yep looks like the folks at Hudson faxed in this game at the last minute, 
 after drinking all weekend. However I got it for 7.99 in the discount bin at my local video rental 
 store while renting Saw 3. This game Bombed. The gameplay is stillborn lifeless. The graphics are 
 nothing special could have been done on the original Xbox. Sound is So so at best. Value is not 
 all that great this game is destined for the Forget it Pile . Bomberman act zero is just that zero 
 on the Bomberman scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon0
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Take everything you know about Bomberman. Now take away its unique style and replace it with a 
 grating, bleak and boring apocalyptic view. Okay, good. Now take all of the great moments you had 
 playing Bomberman as a party game and throw that out too, local multiplayer is not included. Now 
 eliminate most of the powerups and add a health bar that throws away the intensity of all of the 
 matches and an optional, unusable camera. There, you have Act Zero and a game that you should stay 
 as far away from as possible.
  
  Luckily Bomberman Live is coming and, for all intents and purposes, seems like it can't go wrong. 
 $15 for all of the map motifs, powerups, four-player local and eight-player online? Sign me up 
 and forgot about this atrocity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapaleeman
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Bomberman has always been near and dear to my heart. With the release of Act Zero I was initially 
 enticed mainly because it is Bomberman. I personally could care less for the visual change as long 
 as Bomberman stilled played like Bomberman.
  
  Well, guess what. It does. The game is quite playable though the load times between rounds get 
 a little grating by level 20. The single player mode is admittedly quite shallow with online two 
 modes of play, both of which are the same levels just with different health and camera options. 
 Still, first-person bomber (not first-person though so I dont know where the H, E double sticks 
 they came up with that title) is pretty fun and a decent addition to the franchise. With the single 
 player lacking, World Battle better rule. Sure enough, it does. It is a little hard to find a match 
 now that the game is no longer the talk of the town (yes it was for a while because people wanted 
 to try the game that was critically panned by reviewers) .
  
  The graphics are nothing to write home about. They are decent but not quite next-gen. The sound 
 is a let down, horrible repeating music and a boring announcer.
  
  On the whole, the game isnt that bad. The biggest problem is that there isnt enough of it to 
 go around and provide long-term single player gameplay, while the multiplayer will be completely 
 dead soon. I would recommend it as a bargain bin buy if you like Bomberman. Other than that, I 
 cant recommend it anymore because of the above reasons. Not a bad game, just not a lasting experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Bomberman: Act Zero is a bad reincarnation of the old fun Bomberman games, its story, graphics 
 and multiplayer and unlockable content is a cruel joke for whoever bought this game (that doesn't 
 mean me, I got it for free when I bought my Xbox 360)
  
  Gameplay:
  Boring, FPB (First Person Bomber) is as fun as it sounds, even though it isn't first person and 
 the bombs look more like orbs on crack, the game doesn't have the addictive nature the other Bombman 
 game gave us.
  
  Their are two other modes, one is a typical 1 vs X NPC's and a World Battle, which is online against 
 seven other players, like if you can find even one person who had this awful game.
  
  The Camera is clunky, you have to manually swift it constantly to keep up with the action, the 
 unlockable content is a joke because you can only pick out different colour bots to represent a 
 heavily mutated bomberman.
  
  The game also gives us a small amount of powerups.
  
  Graphics:
  This game takes advantage for only 2% of what the Xbox 360 has to offer, its a cruel 
 joke as this is the baddest looking game for the Xbox 360, and it isn't even free, heck, I wouldn't 
 even recommend buying this from the XBLA.
  
  Although the orbs that explode look nice and the robots you play are nice and shiny, the levels 
 you'll play are ALL the same.
  
  Story:
  Ever wanted to know what happened to those cute chibi-bubble graphics? It got completely demolished 
 by a junkyard acolypse, people are forced to wear huge metal armour and play Bomberman, it really 
 is that fun people.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds lack terrible, everything is done by somekind of female robot that yanks words out faster 
 then everybody else, explosions all sound the same and sound terribly.
  
  Is this game a worthless piece of junk:
  It sure is, don't buy this game, you'd be better off 
 placing a turd in you're disk-drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Bomberman: Act Zero is the latest entry in the Bomberman series but it takes some turns that will 
 definetly disapoint long time fans of the series. Its definetly not traditional Bomberman because 
 the colorful characters and backgrounds are gone and have been replaced by ugly characters wearing 
 ugly armor. The story in Bomberman: Act Zero is pretty incredible you play as either a female or 
 male character and then get to choose from one of eight different colors and then have to make 
 it through 99 stages to escape from an evil training facility where they turn humans into Bombermen 
 and women. If you can make it through all 99 stages in one sitting which is the only way to do 
 it because of the lack of a save system your character will escape from the facility and go do 
 whatever it wants to. However making it through all 99 stages is near impossible because you have 
 one life.
  
  The actual gameplay in Bomberman: Act Zero is pretty crummy if you play the single-player modes. 
 You run around a small arena filled with block some breakable some not and drop bombs trying to 
 destroy blocks and your enemies. There are two different single player modes available. The traditional 
 standard mode which gives you a view of the whole arena and goes by one hit kill rules. The other 
 mode is the newly added FPB mode which stands for First Person Bomber. But this mode isn't first 
 person its more like a behind the head mode with a really crappy camera. The other thing that is 
 different about this mode is that you have a health bar so it usually takes about two to three 
 hits to kill someone making it so if you have full health you can walk straight into a bomb and 
 you won't die. The enemy A. I. In the single player modes isn't very good in the first five levels 
 the enemies are incredibly stupid and will most likely kill themselves. But as soon as you get 
 to level 6 the enemies all of a sudden get really tough. The only thing really saving Bomberman: 
 Act Zero from being absolutely terrible is the online multiplayer. It supports up to eight people 
 but nobody plays this game so you'll only have three people usually. But if you can find enough 
 people the game is surprisingly fun and very crazy.
  
  The graphics in Bomberman: Act Zero are terrible. They look like a last-gen game and it isn't what 
 Bomberman's supposed to look like. instead of the cute colorful graphics that made the game more 
 appealing you get these dark rooms with boring dark characters that look terrible.
  
  The sound is absoutely positively terrible. The voice acting consists of a single robotic voice 
 telling you when you've beating a level or gained a power-up. The sound-effects are virtually non-existent. 
 And the sound track consists of one small track looping over and over again.
  
  Bomberman: Act Zero's value isn't that bad the single player modes get boring after about thirty 
 minutes but the multiplayer gives hours of endless fun if you have enough people to play it with. 
 Another nice thing about Act Zero is that like any other 360 game it has achievements. But instead 
 of having 1,000 points the game has 1,020 points. But even the person ranked number one on the 
 leaderboards only has 770 points from this game.
  
  All in all Bomberman: Act Zero is a bad game but it isn't as bad as everybody makes it sound and 
 if you can find enough people to play with online it can provide quite a lot of good fun.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fun online multiplayer, breast physics...
  
  The Bad: Very lame character creation mode, very hard and not much fun single player mode, no offline 
 multiplayer, no storyline, fairly ugly visuals. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Everyone who ever said this game was bad is wrong. That is a tough statement to prove, but I'm 
 willing to give my two cents. Bomberman: Act Zero is an amazing game and is by far the best Xbox 
 360 game ever released. 
  
  That was the first line of my April fools joke review of Bomberman: Act Zero. In all honesty, Bomberman: 
 Act Zero is a pretty bad game, with the lone exception being the online multiplayer which is actually 
 pretty fun...
  
  This Bomberman tries to take the series in a new, darker direction by making Bomberman less cartoony 
 and adding a female character model with breast physics. It doesn't work so well. The darker environent 
 isn't very eye catching and you only play in this single, dingy arena. Kinda lame... The single 
 player portion consists of you trying to beat 99 levels in a row without dieing. If you die, you 
 go back to level 1. Not only that, but the game get's hard at level 5, so most players don't make 
 it any farther than that...
  
  The story of the game is that you are in prison and must fight your way out as a bomberman. This 
 story isn't presented well at all and most people who play this game thought there was no story 
 at all. The sound effects consist of explosions, which sound ok, generic techno and rock in the 
 background, which get's old after a while, and a very baddly done female voice telling you that 
 you died or that you won.
  
  The one redeeming factor for this game is the online multiplayer. It supports 8 players on Xbox 
 Live and can be quite enjoyable. It's the same gameplay as the single player, but with a bunch 
 of people trying to bomb each other to kingdom come, it can get pretty hairly and be fun. It's 
 worth playing or buying at a bargin bin price for the online.
  
  Overall, Bomberman: Act Zero isn't a complete failure because of it's enjoyable multiplayer mode, 
 but it isn't exactly a game that you need to buy..
  
  Gameplay: The single player portion just plain sucks, but the online multiplayer can be a lot of 
 fun.
  
  Graphics: The visuals aren't bad, but they aren't next gen enough either...
  
  Sound: Voice acting is dreadful and the sound effects and music are very bland.
  
  Value: If 
 you can find it for $20 or slightly over, it might be worth buying if you like the online. Any 
 higher than that, and you should easily forget it...
  
  Final Thoughts: ... April Fools! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Surprisingly fun playing over Live with friends, good for some laughs.
  
  The Bad: Single player is terrible, graphics look last gen, not worth full retail price.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  For those of you who read the review that I posted on 3-31 and believed that I really thought this 
 was the greatest game ever: APRIL FOOLS, I GOT YOU!!!!!!
  
  This is my serious review of the game. Bomberman Act: Zero is a half-hearted effort by the folks 
 at Hudson and Konami to bring the classic franchise into the current generation of gaming. For 
 the most part, it fails to deliver on most fronts.
  
  The single player is pretty much terrible. As either a male or female bomberman, you are tasked 
 with trying to make it through a total of 99 levels of classic Bomberman gameplay. Your mission 
 is to eliminate every enemy bomber before you are eliminated. Pretty standard stuff for the series. 
 However, unlike previous entries in the series, you only get 1 life. THAT'S IT! There are no continues, 
 and no saving your progress. I've only been able to make it through 5 levels before dying... so 
 imagine what frustration a person might feel if they were to make it to level 99 and die. Hours 
 of time wasted yielding a kick in the teeth.
  
  The best part of this game is the multiplayer over Xbox Live. If you are playing with a group of 
 friends who just happen to have the game, you'll likely find about an hour or two of fun before 
 the game just starts to wear on you. And this isn't because there are major functionality issues, 
 lag, or such. Its just that this is Bomberman, and if you're familiar with the series, you understand 
 what I mean. You may have noticed that I said the game is fun if you have a group of friends to 
 play with. Its not that this game doesn't support the usual Xbox Live features like ranked matches, 
 its just that it is almost impossible to find someone playing this game to even start up a match. 
 Some of the additional features this game offers is a character customization system, but it is 
 severely limited in options. You can choose either a male or female character in one of 8 different 
 color options.... that's it. Another feature is a half-hearted story that takes place in a post-apocalyptic 
 world where the planet's population are engaged in a global war. An unnamed scientist created the 
 Bomberman program to breed the ultimate soldier, testing each subject's skills in battle. The ones 
 who survive are said to be ready to end the war. However, its been decades since the program was 
 begun and the creator is long dead, yet the program still runs. Enough of the story, you get the 
 idea.
  
  The game's graphics are decent, but nowhere near the capabilities of the 360. They appear to be 
 closer to the late years of the original Xbox's life cycle. The player models are far removed from 
 the bubble-headed sprites in previous games and look more like armored humanoid characters. There 
 is no difference in how the male and female characters perform, but you might get a kick out of 
 the female models' costumes. Scantily clad in bikini armor and a thong... complete with realistic 
 breast physics. Too bad the developers couldn't use their talents to make a more complete game.
 
  
  The game's sound is pretty lame as well, with a looping generic rock track making up the soundtrack 
 during a match. Custom soundtracks are definitely recommended.
  
  As for the standard Xbox 360 game achievements, this game has 50 of them for a total of 1020 points. 
 You'll get achievements for hosting a set number of matches, killing so many people, laying so 
 many bombs, and so on. There are also some achievements for dubious accomplishments like a certain 
 number of suicides. Why there are an extra 20 points there, its hard to say.
  
  In summary, Bomberman Act: Zero features some decent multiplayer with friends but suffers from 
 nobody playing ranked matches, a lackluster single player, and subpar graphics and sound. I recommend 
 that you at least rent this game if you ever were a fan of the previous games in the series. If 
 you played Bomberman before and didn't like it, you'll certainly want to stay away from it. I originally 
 rented this game thinking that it was going to be utterly terrible, but ended up somewhat surprised 
 by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballer28
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  if you love the original bomberman , bomberman 93 or any other bomberman game you know you'll hate 
 this game. if you ever see this game kill it with fire and holy water. after 10 minuets i have spent 
 playing this game i said to my self Oh boy this game has wasted a whole chunk of my life. i am the 
 peson who playedb this game for the longest. if anyone plays this game for over 10 minuets you 
 come telkl me . but you can't beacause i killed my self after playing so Ha Ha! you will want to 
 killyour self after! This game just flat out f***ing sucks. the ionly good thing is that there is 
 a (drumroll please) SEXY BOMBERWOMAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgeofblade
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  The best way to evaluate this game is to ignore everything that has come before it, its derivative 
 influences, its asking price, its music, and style and evaluate it like you never played Bomberman 
 before. Admittedly, I am a fan of films like the Cube trilogy so that makes accepting the style 
 much easier.
  
  This game was abysmal. But for everything it did wrong which you have heard in every other review, 
 I couldn't help coming back to it. The online is a blast when you get a room of people. The tactical 
 element is still just as demanding and rewarding. It's still shallow and almost worthless, but 
 I still find it fun. Watch for the bargain bin. This game will be worth picking up, but only when 
 you can get it for under $15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 2.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, even though it may be popular with today's society, it pisses me off when game companies 
 make their characters more 'edgy'. In turn, this sacrifices game quality for the sake of being 
 'edgy'. And by 'edgy', I mean completely empty shells of their former selves. There's simply no 
 words that can be used to describe my feelings when I learn that one of my favorite game characters 
 has sunk so low as designers have to ruin the reputation of their beloved creation just to gain 
 sales. Remember Shadow the Hedgehog? Not only was the new look bound to piss off long-time Sonic 
 fans, but it was still nigh-unplayable, thanks to camera and controls that were worse than before. 
 It's like it was intentional or something.
  
  Act Zero holds the dubious honor of being worse.
  
  This new look is apparent once you start 
 the game, and the developers tried to cover this up by making a new storyline. Some forgettable 
 crap about being a test subject and having to escape by making the unfortunate player suffer through 
 99 repetitive levels of one of the worst games ever made or something like that.
  
  Of course, even if it were the classic, charmingly iconic design of the old Bomberman games, it 
 would still be nearly unplayable because of the horrendous design. You can play over Live against 
 up to 7 players, or suffer through 99 levels in singleplayer mode with one life and no continues. 
 Since there's no way to save and continue later on, you have to blow through all 99 levels in one 
 sitting without dying. This tests your patience much more than your skills.
  
  A new gameplay type of Act Zero is 'first-person bomber mode' which is misleading. Actually it's 
 third-person, but that's irrelevant since the change is crap anyway. Since this is a series so 
 dependent on quick reactions, you're bound to get caught up in a bomb you couldn't see or react 
 to. And the camera doesn't even follow your movements, instead you have to move the camera yourself. 
 To make up for this, the developers issued a health bar so you can actually survive explosions, 
 but now the gameplay is less tense and frantic than what the series is known for. The whole mode 
 is as useless as it sounds. Thankfully, the developers also allow the classic overhead Bomberman 
 style, with one-hit kills like before. There are items that protect you from bombs, but for the 
 most part this is a complete improvement over the useless first-person mode.
  
  You can collect a variety of powerups and items, but there's still less than a dozen of them, making 
 the list feel inferior to even the really old Bomberman games. Even with all that, the multiplayer 
 is still really disappointing. For one, there's no offline multiplayer. Whatsoever. There is online, 
 but the battles are thin on content and feel exactly the same since there are so few items.
  
  It also looks and sounds bad. Outside of some shiny textures, the game looks like a first-generation 
 Xbox game, with ugly environments and character models. Completely horrendous for Xbox 360 standards. 
 There's also a generic song that loops in the background but is completely forgettable. This game 
 is nothing more than a ripoff, even compared to some Xbox Live Arcade games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balltounge8569
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Bomberman Act Zero had one small thing going for it, it was trying something new. Too bad it failed 
 in every way possible. From the moment the main menu loads and you notice the up and down selection 
 sensitivity is so high you can barely select the option you want - you know the game is going to 
 be bad, really really bad. The first option in said menu is Xbox Live multiplayer, which is what 
 the game seems to have been designed entirely around considering the poor excuse for any sort of 
 narrative. Which is strange because, Bomberman fans take note, THERE IS NO SAME SCREEN MULTIPLAY. 
 That's right, one of the staples of the Bomberman titles has been dissected from the game. You'll 
 just have to settle for playing someone over XBL, assuming you have gold Live account. And that's 
 also assuming you want to play the game to begin with.
  
  The controls are broken in every sense of the word. Considering that the only real change to the 
 Bomberman formula here is a radically redesigned visual style that, for all intents and purposes, 
 should have not affected the gameplay whatsoever; it is mind blowing that the developers could 
 get the grid based gameplay so wrong. Even though the Bomberpeople (there are female characters 
 in this mess of a game too) look like they weigh a ton, they glide about the grid like Olympic 
 figure skaters. The bombs do not sound dangerous. And the music is terrible, which is easily fixable 
 by streaming a custom play list, but still inexcusable in a world where we have game scores the 
 like of God of War and Halo. There's also a half-arsed create a bomber option thrown in.
  
  The only interesting thing about this game is it's new take on the Bomberman look. The graphics 
 aren't terrible but they sure aren't great either, and the terrible gameplay only serves to make 
 them that much less interesting.
  
  Put quite simply, Bomberman Act Zero sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Why oh why did I have to play this game it isn't all that good! The good thing about this game 
 is ..... um well there really isn't anything good about this game! That's why it's at #6 in my 
 countdown I just don't really seem to like this game very much! Everything you enjoyed about previous 
 Bomberman games has been stripped out of this one; ugly graphics and lifeless sound design; shallow 
 gameplay that gets old after about five minutes; no offline multiplayer. Gamespot is right about 
 that couldn't have said it better (actually I could have) but that's not the point. And what happened 
 to Bomberman! He doesn't look like himself I'm really serious! I never knew that it would be all 
 that bad but it is!
  
  It's the same how I got the Red Steel Game being the.... well you get picture I'm a Bomberman fan 
 believe me but this game isn't cool! And Gamespot is right about this: Bomberman: Act Zero is nothing 
 short of a complete rip-off, especially at full price. With only a couple of modes, no offline 
 multiplayer, no save system, and a weak and repetitive single-player game, it has less to offer 
 than many free demos on Xbox Live Marketplace. You can earn some achievement points by breaking 
 a certain number of blocks, or by surviving a certain number of rounds, but it's not worth playing 
 this game just to get the points. If Act Zero were released as an Xbox Live Arcade game for a fraction 
 of the price, it might almost be passable. As it is, it's simply a waste of your time and money.
 
  
  If you think about buying this game something is wrong really wrong. Don't rent it dont' buy it 
 don't even look at it. Instead of selling it I gave it to my dog and my dogg ripped the plastic 
 to shreds then I buried the case in my backyard. Then I broke the disk into two and then I put 
 a paper gravestone over the buried case and it says Here the lies one of the worst games that Roger 
 has ever played R. I. P. Two thumbs down in other words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The first time we've truly seen the formula of Bomberman exposed and disgustingly flawed. Besides 
 an utter lack of effort in gameplay, sound, and graphics this game is without diversity or fabric.
 
  
  Its broken to its core and Hudsons pathetic attempt to reinvent Bomberman has fallen flat on its 
 face. The long standing series has never once seen such a disgusting title fall its way. Furthermore 
 the fact they are nearly forcing you to go online to even attempt to enjoy this half assed title 
 is just adding to the insult of an already unendurable title.
  (You can't save without going online and no multiplayer)
  
  Gameplay - 2
  Its bomberman yes, 
 but the core mechanics are often overlooked due to all the other flaws surrounding it. Its essentially 
 bomberman without a sense of fun or excitement.
  Lack of multiplayer also kills it.
  
  Graphics - 4
  Absolutely hideous and bland, the environments suck and the character models are 
 unappealing and undetailed. Also occasionally some framrate issues have arisen.
  
  Sound - 4
  Boring sound effects and virtually no music support.
  
  Overall - 3.7
  Not even 
 the most dedicated and loyal bomberman fans (among them lies me) should consider disgracing themselves 
 or their 360's with such a broken and uninspired title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genretik
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Oh. My. God. I haven't played something this bad since Dynasty Warriors 5. I mean, how the **** 
 do you mess up Bomberman, one of the most classic franchises ever?! What's even sadder is that 
 the developer of this piece of ****, Hudson, made some of the original Bombermans, as well as several 
 Mario Parties. Oh, well.
  
  Gameplay: It's Bomberman. It might have no saves, 99 levels, a stupid setting with an even stupider 
 plot, but hey, its Bomberman.
  
  Graphics: If you haven't noticed, this game was made for the XBOX 360, not the XBOX. Unfortunately, 
 whoever developed this game didn't realize that. Sound: Annoying announcer, check. Lame explosion 
 sounds, check. Tilt: I have a higher opinion of rats living in the depths of Porta Potties than 
 I do of this game.
  
  Value: It's simple. This game sucks. Don't buy it. End of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparten-001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty fun besides the fact that theres no offline multiplayer. people keep on saying 
 that it sucks because aparently its the cool thing to do right now. this is one of the funest games 
 i played on live. the single player is kind of weak though. think of it as a training for the live 
 portion of the game. at first even i thought what the hell is this but by the time you really start 
 playing the game you dont even notice and its pure old school bomberman fun. ill admit this game 
 has a few things thay would have done better but think about what game do u REALLY say is perfect. 
 even games like halo or GoW had some things that could have used some ironing out. Overall if your 
 an old school bomberman fan and you have xbox live its worth at least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRaZoR_LiGhTx
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say, I have never played a game like this before. My friend had just bought it, 
 before I went round. They didn't really say much, apart from the fact that it was 'OK'.
  How very VERY wrong.
  
  You would have more fun, smacking your head into a brick wall, MULTIPLE 
 times, than playing this. Seriously.
  Some one should be sacked for this, I mean whoever had the idea of this game, shouldn't be allowed 
 to make ANYMORE.
  
  If you want to waste good hard earned cash, or you want something to wipe your arse with, THIS 
 IS FOR YOU!
  
  About the gameplay... wait no, there is NO DAMN GAMEPLAY. It's all running, part button mashing, 
 and all turd.
  
  Do not buy this, for the love of god, please no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilshadwgamer
Rating: 1.4
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is crap it does not deserve to be on the 360 why did they try 2 make bomber man hardcore 
 it didn't work wat happened 2 the cute bomberman he was better? i don't understand why they put 
 this 1 on the xbox 360 why didn't they just put it on the original xbox ? it don't even have new 
 kinda features really bad. Bomberman has been around for more than 20 years, and although the series 
 is most definitely a classic video game franchise, it's been heading steadily downhill over the 
 past decade. There have been a dozen or more games on platforms from the Nintendo 64 to the N-Gage, 
 and the vast majority of them have been disappointing. iculding this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsn187
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  where do i even begin with this game. the old bomber man for the nes was better then this peice 
 of crap. The grahpics looked like i was playing it on the ps there were all muddy and choppy and 
 looked so damn horrible it's not even funny. i wouldnt recommend this game to anyone not even to 
 rent. its the best waste of money to buy in spending the 9.99 at blockbuster is a rip off. This 
 game gives a disgrace to the bomberman name, the xbox 360, and of course the maker Kanomi and Hudson. 
 I thought the game might actually an ok multi but it doesnt. The game doesnt even have an offline 
 multi which is crap. this game doesnt even deserve a rating its so horrbile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman: Act Zero is a true rarity among games. It does absolutely nothing to appeal to non-fans 
 of its respective franchise. As well as completely drive fans of old away. Combine those facts, 
 with absolutely broken game play, and a presentation that does absolutely nothing to show off the 
 power of the Xbox 360. And you have the first game that signify's the low point of Microsoft's 
 next-generation console.
  
  Its already apparent that from the first look of Bomberman: Act Zero , it was DOA from the beginning. 
 Developer Hudson Entertainment has completely destroyed the amazingly lovable anime/cartoon look 
 of the old games. And went in favor of a completely lifeless cyberpunk 1990's look, that would 
 have looked as embarrassing five years ago, as it does today. Don't expect any of the memorable 
 characters from past games in the series. Because they have been erased in favor for a ridiculous 
 futuristic feel that does nothing to remind fans that this is a Bomberman game. No, Act Zero tells 
 the story of a futuristic gladiator type arena, where robots ( the bomber man characters that you 
 play as ) battle it out for supreme victory. Yep, thats no pep added to the article. As you win 
 a round in the arena. The character you play as literally raises his hands in victory ( and looks 
 dumb doing so ) .
  
  While the game already fails from an artistic stand-point, it doesn't make up for it from a technical 
 point of view. Bommberman: Act Zero shows the low point of the Xbox 360. With muggy textures all 
 around, and completely lifeless and uninteresting level designs Act Zero looks rather heavy on 
 the eyes. Even on the original Xbox Bomberman: Act Zero would only make the bar medium.
  
  And don't expect the audio side of the game to be any different. As each level is opened and closed 
 with a unenthusiastic announcer. And the action itself is brought down by uneven and broken sound 
 effects. Even the main menu's sound rather bad as you are forced to listen to uninteresting dark 
 melodramatic background music. That exists only to further the games fake edgy feel.
  
  So, while Act Zero already bites the bullet as far as presentation goes. It game play, is not much 
 different in any form. While the game tries to stick to the original Bomberman party game formula, 
 it most definitely doesn't succeed. The game is a fully one button game. You use the two analog 
 sticks to move the character around and rotate the camera, and use the A button to drop a bomb. 
 Thats it. You go from level to level in the game 99 stages to claim ultimate victory. Or at least 
 that what the people from Hudson Entertainment want you to think. Because the fact of the matter 
 is that each level of Act Zero is completely the same. You drop with a certain amount of enemies, 
 you take them out and progress. There's absolutely nothing more to the game beyond that.
  
  However, the Bomberman series single player aspect has never been the hall-mark of the franchise. 
 No, what has made Bomberman a beloved series is the party game formula that has come with it. You 
 and a number of your friends battle it out in the game's levels. Its been fun, fast and relentlessly 
 entertaining. However, Bomberman: Act Zero even fails at getting that right. Let alone that it 
 already kills the franchises cartoon feel. Having absolutely no multi-player on one console ( which 
 is what bomber man games have succeeded mostly at ) , the game is regulated to LAN ( local area 
 network ) and Xbox Live. The games Xbox Live support is almost non-existent. Thats right, don't 
 expect to purchase this game in hopes of finding hundreds of players from around the world to battle 
 it out with. Since the servers for the game are completely empty threw-out at all times. It would 
 be a miracle in its own right to find a person online to play against. And even if there were people 
 would bought this game, chances are they would be too embarrassed to show themselves in the games 
 servers. So chances are Bomberman fans craving competitors will be stuck with the games LAN support. 
 However, its going to be hard to find people with copies of the game to play against.
  
  Even the games achievements are rather hard to get. So if you are a person who is looking to rent 
 this and get the games achievements easily before returning the game. You would be wrong, since 
 chances are by the end of a basic rental period you would get no more then around 50 points. And 
 that is if you play a lot of Bomberman , which is rather difficult seeing someone doing.
  
  Hudson Entertainment have achieved only one thing with Bomberman: Act Zero . That is, creating 
 the Xbox 360's first true debacle of a title. It destroys the beloved light-hearted feel of past 
 Bomberman games. And in turn nearly kills the franchise's great and enjoyable game play. If you 
 are a casual gamer, feel free to move along and seek better gaming for your money. If you are a 
 Bomberman fan, please steer clear of Act Zero . As you will most definitely be in tears of what 
 Hudson has done, by creating a lifeless game with absolutely no effort put into the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 1.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, where can I start?
  
  What this game was:
  Whoever invented the idea of Act zero is a moron, this game has been a waste of project money, 
 time, and effort. Linear enviornments original gameplay (that wins the Darwin award) , bland character, 
 and a storyline wich should be posted in the Guiness world book for the blandest ever.
  
  What this game does:
  ~Fails at achieving any gaming standards.
  ~Falls ito its own catagory 
 of stupidity.
  
  What this game doesnt do:
  ~Play
  ~Show any effort even attempting fun
  ~Show great original gameplay
  ~show off the 360's potencial
 
  
  All in all this game is; in one word: BORING
  They made a mockery of bomberman, and Konami...
  
  Atleast if they made the game they should 
 have shipped this as an OXM disk... (Or DL on the marketplace) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberNeoLink_2
Rating: 1.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is like ET for the Atari. it feels as it was made in less than 6 weeks. my friend's a 
 huge bomberman game. he didnt care about the bad scores. he rented it though. this game sucks. 
 it blows hard. is a flipping 3rd person bomb adventure. not the bomberman you know. the graphics 
 are play station like. theyre muddy lie the annoying sound. they've taken the great bomberman formula 
 and made it into something not even the dumbest kid in the world who was beaten by a dumb stick 
 would want to play this. NO OFFLINE MULTIPLAYER!!!! Its a PARTY game and you cant play it at a 
 party. dont waste money on this game. buy it in a couple of months when is about 10 bucks if you 
 collect. other than that STAY AWAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigT04
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Alright, I went into this game with a bit of an open mind seeing as I like Bomberman. It was also 
 a plus that I didn't have to pay to play this. The Single Player to this game is terrible its basically 
 the multiplayer with bots. It gets so tedious that you make it to about Round 4, die, get pissed, 
 and then just shut it off. The FPB mode, what the hell? This is Bomberman, life bars should not 
 be in Bomberman. I just think they added this in so that they can say its not more of the same. 
 Essentially this is MORE of the same old Bomberman but with an updated look and its definitely 
 not worth $50. They should of just released Super Bomberman or an old style looking Bomberman on 
 the Marketplace, charged $5-10 and it would of been great. The Multiplayer is fun because its the 
 pretty much the same multiplayer they've used for Bomberman for years, but why in the hell did 
 they not include up to at least 4 players locally. I know they want to push the Live capabilities, 
 but I want to play Bomberman with my friends. They really dropped the ball with this game. Its 
 not a complete waste, but don't pay $50 for it, wait for it to drop down to $20 which should be 
 in about a few weeks. Its worth it for the fun online multiplayer, but with a lack of local play 
 I'd much rather just get my friends together with our DSs and play Bomberman DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SigmaXIX
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  I had eagerly anticipated this games release for the past few months, knowing all along the graphics 
 would take this neo-Bomber look.
  
  All I really wanted there to be is a great arcade, pick-up-and-play game. Therefore, when I got 
 the pre-ordered game on release day, I was pleasantly surprised thats exactly what Bomberman: 
 Act Zero offers.
  
  The thing that may be upsetting all these people is that its just Bomberman with upgraded graphics. 
 No truly unique game modes or adventure stories Some people are just upset the classic SD look 
 to Bomberman has been removed, and have saved up their rage just to write a bad review without 
 even playing it.
  
  But, if you enjoy blasting + signs, this game certainly deserves a 6.9. Come on, its definitely 
 better than X-Men & Bankshot Billiards.
  
  ==============
  SINGLE PLAYER:
  ==============
  Solid. No bugs or freezing glitches and NO slowdowns at all. It's classic Bomberman 
 action. There are even hidden items that pop up which unlock X360 achievements.
  
  The various SINGLE PLAYER game modes offer intelligent computer competition coupled with increasing 
 level of difficulty, balanced enough that anybody can have fun.
  
  Music is, admittedly, entirely unnoticeable (not bad, just not paid attention) . Sound is appropriate 
 and fine for every function in the game.
  
  It's Bomberman! Just with some plastic surgery! How can people think it's so bad?
  
  ============
 
  MULTIPLAYER:
  ============
  Yes, you can only play multiplayer online...
  
  But, at all hours of the day and night, people play this game online and offer a good challenge. 
 There hasn't been a time I wanted to play that I haven't been able to find a good match of 3+ people.
 
  
  THERE ARE ALSO NO LAG PROBLEMS... I play this game smoothly and accurately against people in Japan.
 
  
  =============
  IN SUMMATION:
  =============
  +It looks good on HDTV.
  +Fast-paced arcade action!
  +Even though I have Enchanted Arms & Saint's Row, I have been playing 
 this game more frequently than any other since it was released.
  +I agree with the other reviewer  at least give it a try and rent it.
  
  FYI -- I have or 
 have played EVERY one of the N64, S/NES, PC, etc incarnations of Bomberman.
  --------------------
  --XBL Gamertag: Contra19 [own 30 X360 game + 25 XBLA games] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Perfect-Gun
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this game is very fun. I don't know why people hate it and HOW could it get a 2.9/10?
  
  SIngleplayer is fun, but challenging. Online mode is very fun, and NEVER gets boring. I have 
 been playing online for about 25 hours total, I have had the game about 3 days! You can have up 
 to 8 people, there are leaderboards, and it is just very fun. I just don't understand how somebody 
 could not like this game! Please, rent it at least and I know you will enjoy it. I bought it for 
 $40 at GameCrazy, and that is the cheapest and BEST 360 game I have bought! C'mon, give it a try!
 
  
  Very fun game, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 1.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  How many games leave you more or less speechless because of how awful they are?
  
  If you've never experienced one this would be it. I remember Bomberman as a little chubby guy with 
 a moogle like antenna sticking out of his head tossing bombs around in a carefree environment. 
 Previous incarnations of Bomberman were actually fun, yea that foreign 3 letter word. Now, the 
 world of Bomberman lacks any semblance of fun, and Bomberman looks like medieval unabomber. Whoever 
 devised such an atrocity should be brought up on charges of crimes against humanity. Are we sure 
 the same people who made Drake of 99 Dragons or Big Rigs weren't behind this?
  
  Too bad there isn't a classification known as "WTF?".
  
  I'm not sure if this is even worth 
 a rental as I wasted my free rental coupon on this... Last time I let my cousin pick out a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  OK I rented this piece of **** hoping that it would some what be fun. This is by far the cheesiest 
 cash in ever made on the 360. Not to mention its total crap in every way imaginable. Its so bad 
 just imagine the worse game you've have ever played and this would be right along those lines, 
 if not poorer. I mean if I ate a burrito and then ate a laxative afterwards this is what would 
 come out of my ass. Seriously this is truly a masterpiece-of-****. They should even have it in 
 the urban dictionary as "piece of **** any object, person, or other existing thing that works incorrectly, 
 is too expensive, or just plain sucks. I. e. Bomberman Act Zero." Its games like this that give 
 the 360 a bad name. Konami must seriously be extremely occupied with MGS4 to have put out such 
 a low end product. Everyone who feels that the producers of Bomberman Act Zero should have skeet 
 in their eyes please recommend this review. Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 1.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman: Act Zero is the kind of game you'd shake your head and sigh at if it were a $20 dollar 
 game made by some no-name developer for the PC... probably WWII themed. However, when a title like 
 Bomberman comes out for the 360, for FIFTY DOLLARS... god, until you play this game you don't realize 
 what kind of atrocity THAT is... fifty dollars, you expect something more. Like a save function. 
 ANY SAVE FUNCTION. EVEN A CHECKPOINT FUNCTION. I'm not kidding, You cannot save. Ever. In 99 levels. 
 It's like a huge shaggy dog joke really. 
  
  This game is both bad and broken. It's ugly, chunky, blurry graphics are stunningly bad, and the 
 take on bomberman as some kind of battledroid is just... lame. Clearly the art department here 
 made the "scariest" bomberman they could but he still ends up looking, and sounding, like a slightly 
 congested and bloated grunt from Halo. Wheee... just the avatar I want to play with.
  
  As for gameplay... there is none. Ok, I'm sure there is gameplay, but I couldn't play for more 
 than 30 minutes at a time without weeping, and after 4 hours I decided that more exposure to this 
 game would be pointless. I don't care if Halo 3 comes right after the 4th hour... it's not worth 
 it.
  
  First person bombing. Sort of like a 3D Sonic The hedgehog meeting up with some weird broken version 
 of medroid prime... taking little dumps along mazes that look like autocad designs of Doom hallways.
 
  
  Sound: It doesn't matter. Frankly, none of this matters. This game is AWFUL. If it were a 5 dollar 
 game, I might go to greater lengths to dissuade prospective buyers, but at $50 dollars, only the 
 insane will buy this game and not return it the same day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdever32
Rating: 1.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  No words can adequately describe how bad this game is. If they had just ported the Dreamcast version 
 to the 360 it would have been a much better move. This game is just so disappointing. No local 
 multiplayer.... Does Hudson even know what made the Bomberman games so much fun? That would be 
 the local multiplayer. All I wanted out of this game was a fun offline multiplayer experience. 
 I don't care that they changed the style. I like the old style better, but that doesn't bother 
 me. What bothers me is that this is just not fun. At no time did I have one shred of fun while 
 playing this game. I tried, but it just didn't happen.
  
  Do yourself a favor and buy a Dreamcast and Bomberman Online on eBay. It would probably be cheaper 
 than this game and definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 2.9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  n/a
  
  Cons:
  Graphics engine seems wasted on horrible graphics
  Purely arcade gameplay, for full price
  Seemless single-player
  No offline Multiplayer
  Drab 
 online Multiplayer
  Dropping bombs isn't fun
  Repetitive gameplay (if you can stand to play beyond the first half hour)
  
  Bad Glitch Areas:
 
  The whole game is really, just one big glitch.
  
  Overview:
  I never rate games judged on my personal opinion of the gameply, but this is a travesty and most 
 likely the opinion of everyone else! Act Zero sucks, blaitently sucks! It's a 45 arcade game, 
 and even if it was an arcade game, this game would reek out loud. Not many games qualify for a 
 2.9, especially 360 games, but this is just another wasted product from Konami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  SUCKS SUCKS BLOWS THEN SUCKS!!!!!
  
  This is a revolution my friends. This had got to be the worst game ever made. This game is so bad 
 that I'm going to trade it in tomorrow.
  
  This game realy deserves a 0.3 but you don't have a choice, so there you have it.
  
  It looks 
 like no effort was made to program this game.
  
  Many of you are probaly wondering why I wasted my time and money in this $2 game? Well I brought 
 it thinking it might be worth atleast a 5, or a 6, or a great multi player game, but it looks like 
 they got rid of that off line also.
  
  This just shows the disrespect of Kanomi's love for the 360.
  
  Totally thumbs down. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
