-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brian Lara International Cricket 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/internationalcricket2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy to pick up and play.
 Robust online offering including 16-team tournaments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough game modes.
 Official licence for ICC tournaments only.
 Fielding is too hard.
 Not great looking for a 360 title.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 217 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Cricket
Date: Mar 23, 2007 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
International Cricket 2007 offers easy-to-pick-up controls for an accessible experience, though 
 it's perhaps a bit too easy, and hurt by a lack of game modes. 

  Just as EA's Cricket 07 was released late last year to capitalise on the then-upcoming Ashes Series, 
 Ricky Ponting International Cricket 2007 (or Brian Lara International Cricket 2007, if you live 
 in the UK) , from UK developer Codemasters, is being unleashed right in the middle of another major 
 tournament: the ICC Cricket World Cup currently being held in the West Indies. The timing is apt, 
 and not only because of the game's official World Cup licence. With its focus on easy playability 
 and simple controls, International Cricket 2007 certainly feels more like the limited overs version 
 of the sport -- quick, exciting, and with a focus on big hits and high scores. The game's lack of 
 comprehensive Test Match or Tour options as well as real player names only appearing in the World 
 Cup mode may irk cricket tragics, but others looking for a more accessible game to play with friends 
 will find plenty to enjoy.  

          You'll be hitting boundaries aplenty within minutes of picking up International Cricket 
 2007.     

  Limited overs encounters form the crux of International Cricket 2007 (better known as Brian Lara 
 International Cricket in the UK) . While you're given the option to play one-off Test Matches complete 
 with the requisite two innings per side, most of the modes in International Cricket 2007 revolve 
 around the One Day experience. The game's flagship mode is the actual ICC Cricket World Cup tournament 
 itself, which features all of the 16 finalists' teams as playable (and arrayed in their real-world 
 tournament groupings) . As well as the ICC Cup, last year's ICC Champions Trophy event held in India 
 also gets its own dedicated mode, and once again features all eight teams that were involved. From 
 here on in, the list becomes bare -- you can set up custom Test Matches, One Day Internationals, 
 or Twenty20 games, but the bad news is that only 16 teams -- the teams in the ICC World Cup -- are 
 available to choose from. There are no tour modes, there are no domestic competitions -- basically 
 nothing outside of the official One Day tournaments and custom matches. Working in its favour, 
 however, is the fact that cricket really isn't that widespread a global sport (come on -- own up 
 to it, cricket fans) . So while only 16 teams are playable, the world's biggest and best cricketing 
 nations are represented (as well as minnows like Ireland and Canada) . What will probably annoy 
 fans more is the game's lack of real player names for modes outside of the ICC events -- no doubt 
 an effect of International Cricket 2007's ICC-only licence. That means while real player names 
 are used in the World Cup and Champions Trophy mode, they mysteriously take on strange pseudonyms 
 in any other game modes. (Australian paceman Brett Lee becomes B. Leap, for example) .  

  It's been two years since the International Cricket series last made an appearance, but anyone 
 who was familiar with the previous games should be able to pick up and play the 2007 version almost 
 immediately. Codemasters' additions to gameplay have been fairly minimal -- batting has been improved 
 with some new shot types, ball movement has been tweaked in bowling, and fielding has been bolstered 
 with the ability to throw to either end of the pitch. Perhaps the biggest addition is online play 
 for the PC and Xbox 360 versions, as well as global leaderboards and achievements with the 360. 

          Bowling and batting are easy to get the hang of, although fielding is more finicky.    

  Batting is done using a combination of button and control stick movements -- it's not as immediately 
 intuitive as EA Cricket 07's century stick system, but it certainly won't stump anyone who's ever 
 played a sports game previously. Ground shots and lofted shots are assigned to different buttons, 
 while sweeps have been mapped to the 360's shoulder buttons. Direction is chosen via the left stick, 
 with a small minimap of fielder positions appearing in the left-hand corner of the screen to indicate 
 which direction is safest. As with previous International Cricket incarnations, timing is a key 
 element in batting -- mistimed shots result in missed swings at best and easy catches for fielders 
 at worst. Good timing isn't that hard to achieve, however -- even at the highest difficulty setting 
 (the game has four) , slogging big fours or sixes are routine, although the task does admittedly 
 get harder with lower-order batsmen.     

  Bowling is similarly easy to get the knack of. Bowlers -- whether pace or spin -- share four delivery 
 types, which can be selected during the bowler's run-up. The location the ball will first land 
 on the pitch is set using the left stick, while a power meter that rises as a bowler approaches 
 is used to determine pace. Special deliveries (such as yorkers) can be bowled once a bowler's confidence 
 meter is filled (by performing consecutive good deliveries that don't end up being slogged to the 
 outfield) . Bowlers can also shift the direction of a ball in midair to further bamboozle a batsman, 
 although the size of the shift depends on the skill levels of individual bowlers.  

          As good as the gameplay is, it'd be nice if there were more to do.     

  Compared to 
 the relative ease of batting and bowling, fielding in International Cricket 2007 is a twitchlike 
 affair which takes some practice. Just before an in-game fieldsman is about to catch or throw a 
 ball, a sliding meter pops up above his head. You'll need to press the appropriate button while 
 the meter is at its middle to ensure a catch sticks or a throw back to the stumps is straight above 
 the bails. The meter itself moves rather quickly -- sometimes too quickly to be able to react in 
 time. Compounding this is the fact that it's also difficult at times to tell whether your fieldsman 
 is going for a catch or a throw back -- and since you have to press a different button to perform 
 a catch, throw to the wicketkeeper's end, or throw to the bowler's end, that moment of uncertainty 
 almost always ends up being costly.  

  All this adds up to a game of cricket that most gamers should be able to pick up and become competitive 
 with in a short amount of time. Those normally bored by the sedate pace of the real-life game will 
 find the big hits and arcadelike feel of fielding to their liking. Computer opponents won't be 
 much of a challenge, however. At lower difficulty levels, it's almost laughably easy to trap a 
 computer batsman for an LBW, or bowl them completely. The game's highest setting, Test Match, is 
 where most gamers will find themselves playing, although even there it can be a breeze to knock 
 over opponents.  

  Thankfully, real-life opponents are never far away, with International Cricket boasting robust 
 online functionality through Xbox Live. Options here are pretty stock-standard -- you can join or 
 host your own matches, with the ability to set specific gametypes or over limits. Probably the 
 most exciting option is the ability to set up a tournament with 15 other players. Playing through 
 Live was a pretty smooth experience -- although we did get noticeable lag just before bowling or 
 batting. The game would freeze for about a second just before your bowler releases a ball, or if 
 you're batting, just before the bat strikes the ball itself. It was off-putting, to be sure, but 
 playable nonetheless.  

          Player models are well animated. Just don't look at the crowd.     

  International 
 Cricket 2007 is the first cricket game to date to be released for the Xbox 360, and while the visuals 
 are solid, they're far from spectacular. Player models look rather unrefined, and very few actually 
 look like the real-life players they're supposed to be representing. Movements mainly look good -- bowlers 
 approach the crease in a realistic way, while wicketkeepers and batsmen display a nice set of animations. 
 Fielders look a little worse, particularly when running towards a ball, where they look like they're 
 not quite connecting with the turf underneath them. And while the stadiums in the game look good, 
 the crowds are best left ignored -- they're almost Legolike in their blockiness. On the commentating 
 side, International Cricket 2007 features well-known names such as Tony Greig and Bill Lawry, although 
 the lack of colour and enthusiasm in Lawry's commentary is almost embarrassing to listen to.  

 
  Cricket, as its most ardent supporters will no doubt admit, is a complex game to understand for 
 the uninitiated, and Ricky Ponting International Cricket 2007 is a fine attempt to translate it 
 for a more mainstream gaming audience. It's fun to play, but mainly because it's quite easy to 
 master. A few more gameplay modes would have made International Cricket an easy game to recommend 
 over EA Cricket 07; but as it stands, it's a pretty even race.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bosskatte
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Okay, so we all know that Brian Lara International Cricket 2005 on the PS2 was a truly great offering, 
 with simple but logical gameplay in all areas, nice graphics, lots of formats and even exhaustive, 
 interesting conversations between commentators.
  
  So imagine my excitement as the next gen offering drew closer and closer on the XBox360 (yes I 
 know - ages ago: bear with me) . Finally it was in my hands and got banged on sharpish. Oh.
  
  What I was expecting was all of the quality of the 2005 version but with beautifully rendered 
 visuals, more bowling refinement and extra batting freedom.
  
  What I was not expecting was a gob-smackingly lazy offering, clearly rushed out to coincide with 
 the World Cup.
  
  Okay, so there are a couple of new batting shots. Woo. Everything else (and I mean EVERYTHING) 
 is inferior to the 2005 version. 
  
  You feel totally detached from the action thanks to a distant camera; this is especially noticeable 
 when bowling which, even when you (easily) take a wicket leaves you feeling cold.
  
  Fielding is bizarre - even when you manage to stop the guage in the right place, your guy still 
 often throws right through the stumps and on for extra runs and WHY does the wicket keeper keep 
 snicking off the bails, even when the batsman hasn't run (then appeal, then cut to unpire refusing, 
 again) . And don't even get me started on catching. I'm no championship gamer but please, you need 
 superhuman reactions for even the simplest of slips catches and half the time in the outfield you 
 don't know if your catching or fielding - and why make it a different button to catch or field?
 
  
  Batting is the "best" part of the new game. Shots are quite satisfying, as it running and diving 
 for safety and the addition of sweep shots and dancing up the wicket is a nice touch. But what 
 if you're out for a duck? This sums the game up for me: they couldn't even be bothered to include 
 a duck animation - even the original PS1 game did that. Now I know that that doesn't exactly cripple 
 the game but come on...
  
  And then there's the commentary. WHY did they include Bill Lawry's embarrassing durge? I'll take 
 nails on a blackboard every day of the week!
  
  So why am I writing this now? Well, after my initial irritation with the game I traded it in within 
 a month. Then, a couple of weeks ago, I was missing playing cricket and, since you can pick it 
 up for 15 second-hand, I thought "Hmm... it can't have been that bad". So I went and bought a copy. 
 I played it that evening and OH MY GOD! It was even worse than I remembered and got traded back 
 the next day (more for fear of chucking my controller through the telly than to get any serious 
 money back) . 
  
  And then I picked up the trusty old PS2 2005 version for the first time in a couple of years. Ahhhhh, 
 bliss. And I thought "How is this possible?". For a company with the pedigree of Codemasters, especially 
 in this field, to take solid gold, throw god knows how much more processing power at it, and produce 
 a vastly inferior game. 
  
  So please Codemasters, make this sad gamer happy again - have another bash at it. You know you 
 want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  It's an annoying tendency with Codemasters sports games that they never quite seem to know the 
 rules of the sport they are attempting to recreate.
  It's never a major error, but for people that know the game they can be exceptionally irritating.
 
  In their Snooker games it's not the main game that falls down but the Pool element they've added 
 which, when playing the 9-ball variant of the game, omits the PUSH shot a deliberate foul that 
 is allowed the shot immediately after the break, in Brian Lara's it's the treatment of extras as 
 part of the bowlers figures.
  Leg Byes do not, in the real world, get added to a bowlers figures but here they do.
  You can 
 bowl a feeble team out for under 10 runs, the summary sheet shows that only one batsmen scored 
 any runs, a total of 1, and you'll have seen the umpires signal Leg Bye for all the rest, only 
 to see your bowlers have been charged with all the runs scored by the opposition.
  It may be a tiny mistake but it surely its not too much to ask that they get the rules right.
 
  Also irritating is the curse of EA licensing, which means that unless you're playing one of the 
 two major one day competitions Codemasters have been able to get their hands on the players names 
 are changed to something similar, but not too similar, to the real thing, Flintoff becomes Flantiff, 
 Vaughn becomes Vorner and Lee becomes Leap.
  You can add one more to the Irritating count in that the game doesn't auto save your profile, if 
 you've unlock something through winning a match or two it'll only be there next time if you save 
 your profile before turning off, and it takes more pad presses than you'd like to simply overwrite 
 your previous profile save.
  When you finally get to the game you'll think that this generation never happened, the graphics 
 are functional at best, certainly no real improvement over the previous version of the game which 
 themselves were not much of an improvement over the original PlayStation graphics.
  Fielding is still hit and miss, they've tried to add some player interaction into it but it just 
 doesn't work, it seems to make very little difference in the accuracy of the throw to the stumps 
 whether you hit the sweet area of the gauge or not, and even if you do there's a good chance the 
 keeper will fumble the ball or miss it entirely on shorter throws regardless of whether he's the 
 keeper for Bermuda or Australia.
  Bowling is dull, they've tried to make it more interesting with confidence meters and the ability 
 to bowl wider of the crease than would normally be the case, just as in real life, but it can't 
 take away from the fact that bowling is the dullest part of the game the only highlight being 
 that spinners, regardless of ability, can practically turn the ball 90 degrees with the new ball 
 of the first day of a Test Match, not the most realistic inclusion.
  The one saving grace of the game is the batting, as realistic as ever, it's a doddle to rattle 
 along at 18 runs per over, if not more for an entire match, as you savage the ball to all parts 
 of the ground, but more often than not through 1 or 2 favourite areas and its no surprise to see 
 your graph when you get to a 50, 100, 200 or 300 runs having the majority of shots all through/over 
 one part of the ground.
  The commentary, whilst incorporating many famous names from TV and Radio is highly repetitive, 
 and with the fast moving nature of the simulation the areas where they normally fill in the tedium 
 with banal aimless conversation are just not present in the game so any discussion topic they start 
 on quickly gets cut off but a wicket or a boundary, never to being restarted once the immediate 
 action has finished.
  If you can get past the irritations then you'll find a competent enough game, one that can be picked 
 up easily and requires little effort, its certainly one for easy achievements as you can pick up 
 around 500 points for playing just one Test and one ODI against a team of minnows, a task that 
 can be completed in under an hour, but at the end of it the game doesn't break nay new ground, 
 if you've already got the old Xbox or PS2 version then there's little to recommend picking this 
 one up as well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adman1138
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Codemasters come out with their latest effort in the Brian Lara cricket series, and it has many 
 of the same problems as last time, the most irritating of which is that it is way too easy. The 
 first game I played was as England against Australia on county level and I has soon scored over 
 1000 runs for the loss of one wicket. Not only did I get such a score for only one wicket but it 
 also came up in an incredibly fast time, getting over 20 runs in an over is the norm in this game, 
 about as far removed from Test Match Cricket as they could get.
  
  Even though its easy there is still something satisfying about a well timed shot for four, more 
 so on Test level, and taking wickets but these are small plus points in a game where winning doesn't 
 really hold any meaning, you are never in trouble of losing a match.
  
  The graphics are not great although Hawkeye is a nice edition, and they've made it so you can't 
 look at the full scorecards for a match, once an innings is finished all you can see relating to 
 it is the summary which shows the best batsmen and bowlers. Within 10 minutes of playing you will 
 want to strangle the wicket-keeper, everytime the ball is thrown to him he has to take the time 
 to knock the wickets over an appeal, even if the batsmen is well in his crease, that quickly becomes 
 tiresome.
  
  As for the achievements, most can be scored in your first two games, the win 8 World Cups with 
 8 different teams is a long slog that involves playing 88 matches. The only difficult achievement 
 is hitting 6 sixes in a single over, hitting boundaries is easy but making every one a six requires 
 good timing, it was the only achievement on here that I felt satisfied with when I got it.
  
  Codemasters need to go away and watch a few cricket matches, they've tried to make the games 
 short with big scores to appeal to non-cricket fans who probably won't buy the game anyway, gamers 
 who watch Test cricket will have the patience to play a proper cricket game which takes skill and 
 patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsoody
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Sadly, this game is a shoodily made redone version of a game that had, well some potential... The 
 beta testers were definately asleep while they were testing this, as unpardonable mistakes have 
 crept into almost all aspects of it...
  
  Firstly, the the most game breaking glitch for a single player game, at no time are there more 
 than 2 players outside the 30 yard circle, EVEN IN THE 50TH OVER OF AN ODI!!! This makes hitting 
 4's insanely easy on ALL DIFFICULTIES!! Even besides this, batting in general is not a challenge 
 at all...
  Next, seeing the bowler do a weird kind of dance at the end of the run up is not amusing, and there 
 is no stat tracking system at all...
  
  the catching system is random and broken, and the keeper always breaks the stumps and appeals no 
 matter how safe u r... Trust me its gets very annoying after some time...
  
  The commentry is simply poor and unrelated.. The weird music which comes after each ball in a stadium 
 in India is also intolerable...
  
  All in all, a horribly broken and glitchy game, which any fan of the game would dislike... You need 
 to have patience to play this crap... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noothername
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  I love cricket. And I love playing games which mimic what I love in 'real life'. That's why I bought 
 Brian Lara 2007, and that's why I like playing it. But I don't love playing it, and therein lies 
 the rub.
  
  You see, there are a feast of modes on offer in this game, and even though the tests aren't properly 
 licensed, I can abide that given the fact that the ICC One Day Series is, as is the ICC World Cup. 
 My main charges against this version of the game, however, are the shoddy presentation and sometimes 
 awful fielding mechanics.
  
  Firstly, the graphics are not worthy of a 360 game, which makes me question the commitment Codemasters 
 put into this title. I understand it's not all about graphics, but they could have tried a little 
 bit harder!
  
  Secondly, the fielding. You need Jedi reactions to catch at slip, and even in the deep the catch 
 meter appears out of nowhere to surprise you, leading to an abundance of dropped chances in a single 
 innings.... well, in my case anyway!
  
  But, despite these frailties, it is a good cricket simulation, with a decent level of atmosphere, 
 tolerable commentary, and all the variations of spin you could ever want. If you love cricket, 
 you'll probably like this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Brian Lara ICC Cricket 2007 is a dismal attempt at rendering cricket on a console. Every aspect 
 of the game is grossly undercooked and near broken, from the limited statistics (in a test you 
 can't even view the scorecard of the 1st innings whilst you are playing the 2nd innings, there 
 are no wagon wheels or other stats that cricket fans adore) . The feilding controls are terrible, 
 the game gives you no heads up whatsoever that you need to press a button for a catch which is 
 unfair, unrealistic and not fun at all. The overall production is shoddy at best, the sound set 
 is limited. Then the biggest annoyance of all, the wicket keeper knocks the bails off EVERY time 
 he receives the ball leaving the umpires shaking their heads in utter bemusement. I never thought 
 i'd say this but I look forward to the next EA Cricket game, Codemasters have it so painfully wrong. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avishkar14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game a lot. I have been a cricket fan for a long time and after EA 2002, this 
 has been the best cricket game. The graphics are pretty ordinary but better than the previous Brian 
 Lara games. Gameplay is fun and I like the way we can field in this game. The best part is the 
 online thing. It is the first cricket game which we can play online and I have had some great matches 
 on xbox live with other players. The game doesn't lag at all and that is another plus point. Overall 
 I don't think this is a great game but it is certainly a must buy for a cricket fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza95
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Did you REALLY buy that cricket game? was what I heard when I was found to be playing Brian Lara 
 International Cricket 07. Yep, it's actually really good! was the reply.
  
  The game is very under-rated and seems to be shunned mainly because it has cricket written on the 
 box, which apparently immediately makes it boring. Not so. For a cricket fan, you couldn't ask 
 for a better, more realistic game of the sport you love. For a newcomer, the game offers a brilliant 
 introduction to the sport and an enjoyable experience.
  
  The controls are easy to pick up and feel very comfortable for the game, and the vast array of 
 shots playable are simple to execute. The graphics are crisp and clear, but they definitely don't 
 push the 360 to the limit.
  
  A few little gripes: the AI team when fielding will often leave gaping holes in the field which 
 you can exploit for boundaries ball after ball; teams like Bermuda and Scotland are listed as Test 
 nations, which is just wrong; and overall, the game is pretty thin. After playing the World Cup 
 through and perhaps going for the more drawn out achievements, there isn't a lot to offer from 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeras_Tren
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  To put it simply, Brian Lara Cricket is broken. Even on the hardest difficulty, it is ridiculously 
 easy to bowl Australia out for 50, as Bermuda, and since the fielders barely move, it takes me 
 about three overs to win a match. I owned the previous Brian Lara, and, while it was fine while 
 I was learning, as soon as I worked out how to play it became stupid, so, when I saw that a sequel 
 was coming out I was hopeful that they'd solve this. However, they have made it even worse by making 
 the batting so simple that even multiplayer isn't fun anymore. The graphics and audio are fine, 
 but what does that matter when the game is broken? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmecbe
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Brian Lara international cricket 2007 is an all round good game. Firstly the graphics of the game 
 aren't really to 360 standards and it is quite noticable when bowling. Although the charaters can 
 look alike to there real life counter parts the crowd animation is very poor and sometimes the 
 ball can completly miss the bat and yet go for a boundary. The gameplay of the game however i think 
 is very good. Batting is the most satifying thing of the game. The batting is quite simple and 
 you can hit many boundaries in a game. The bowling i think can be good on occasion but it is a 
 little too slow and not always very fufilling. During a game you may find yourself skipping the 
 bowling innings as you wont always be bothered to bowl because they have made batting in this game 
 much more appealing. Fielding can be tricky but it is not impossible. You have to have good reactions 
 but if you dont you will find this very difficult. Finally the sound is very unatmospheric in the 
 game and you will only ever get a cheer in the game for a boundary which can make the game feel 
 very lifeless. If you are a cricket fan then you will like the layout and style of the game while 
 also all the best game modes are there and you can customise your own settings and teams. One of 
 the dissapointing things was that the licensing only works on the actual world cup so during just 
 a skirmish game you have to use fake players which is not entirely satisfying. Overall a game worth 
 getting for a cricket fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Areola54
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe the sheer naivety of Codemasters. They must think we are absolutely stupid. i saw 
 the Brian Lara game and knowing the brand is good, I bought it.
  
  Not only have I got a shoddy half-finished and half-arsed effort, Codemasters then promise a patch. 
 Only then, after the time allowed to return a game has passed, they tell us the patch will only 
 contain an xbox live fix. and even try to fob us off by telling us its in order to get it out as 
 quick as possible.
  
  This game was all hype and build-up. The advertising on the BLIC07 Microsite (useless) was blatantly 
 misleading and their promises have been largely unfulfilled... this is purely and simply a game 
 focused 90% on capatalising on the World Cup to boost sales and meet their quotas... maybe 5% was 
 focused on the game and the other 5% on convincing their genuine staff that to move forward you 
 first need to move backwards... rapidly... but make sure to call this 'progress'.
  
  The bowling speed bug is still around. Some FAST bowlers bowl half their deliveries as slower balls 
 in Tests (80 KMH slow balls and 60 KMH slow balls for spinners) ... world class wicketkeepers are 
 made to look like bumbling idiots.... skilled fielders look like no-armed retards trying to take 
 catches (no offense intended to genuine retards out there, sorry) .
  
  These forums are bursting with unhappy consumers - but Codemasters still ensist everybody remain 
 calm and wait for the PATCH..... they imply a GAMEPLAY update will occur...... numerous people 
 delay returning their games for full refunds from EA Games.... then they drop the news, Oh by the 
 way there will be NO GAMEPLAY UPDATE... ha, ha, ha now we get to include your purchase in our figures!!!!! 
 Victory to the diabolical Codemasters.
  
  Well, you know where you can stick your game. Well, maybe you don't, given your backwards logic.... 
 you'll probably look at the other end - which would kinda make sense anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boukhari
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Despite being terrific at first sight, this game could be so much better.
  
  The fact of the matter is: cricket has never been produced at an acceptable standard, at least 
 not in my eyes.
  
  Although this game is great for a proper fan of cricket, it also features information and a great 
 tutorial for newcomers who want to get into cricket. This game satisfies the basic criteria for 
 game-play, but not much more. It does nothing exceptional to set itself apart from any mediocre 
 attempt of producing a good cricket game. The lack of modes and depth (mini-games) leaves the game 
 with limited re-playability value.
  
  Some simple details are adhered to, eg. sound of the batsmen calling for a run, adding hawk-eye 
 for lbw's... but nothing more has been made into the game, eg no manual replay function, lack of 
 mini-games and rather annoyingly the licensing issues which prevent this game showing the players' 
 real names in the custom test/ one day exhibition modes.
  
  Since i've mentioned mini-games twice, now you should wonder: what mini-games have you got on your 
 mind then eh? 
  
  Well, for starters: rubbing the ball so that you work for your swing, perhaps button mashing for 
 a better appeal for lbw/ caught behind when bat almost hits ball (umpires don't always get decisions 
 right you know, so they can be convinced by the bowler) , butting mashing to sprint to the ball 
 when fielding or run between the wickets as a batsman under pressure and choosing when to dive 
 to reach the crease, the option of taunting the opposition which may intimidate them or just anger 
 them.
  
  If game's price tag decreases, this game will be worth buying. Otherwise wait for a few years until 
 another game come out, which i might review for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashghan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Before I go any further I must say that this game is really only for people who absolutely love 
 the game of cricket. If you aren't really interested in the sport, then this game will leave you 
 feeling empty inside. Very empty. I don't know if it's the apparent 30 minutes in total that the 
 developers must've spent in actually making this game (or at least, patching it from the 2005 version) , 
 or just that the only positive change is the marginally better graphics employed in this game, 
 but even for a die-hard cricket fan such as myself this game is disappointing. Let me count the 
 ways:
  
  Gameplay:
  This game plays very much like its predecessor, with only a few minor tweaks added as far as I 
 can tell. Essentially the player is given a fairly decent amount of control over the batsmen (when 
 batting) and the bowler and fielders when fielding. I will not go into great detail about the control 
 schema here as I'll assume that you've already read the Gamespot review. I will, however, point 
 out some of it's flaws. The fielders are the laziest group of people to ever play cricket - if 
 the ball doesn't come within arm's reach of these players then they're just not interested in it 
 at all. This is not the case all the time, but it certainly seems to be a rule of thumb. Also, 
 it seems that every single fielder has bathed their hands in vegetable oil just prior to running 
 onto the oval, with more dropped catches and misfields in one over than in a whole test match of 
 cricket for the blind. The gameplay mechanics present a few minor new features, but certainly no 
 bugs have been addressed from the previous version.
  Another issue is the level of difficulty in the game. There are four difficulty settings: Slog 
 (east) , Club (medium) , State (hard) and Test (very hard) . All I'll say is this: In the 2005 version 
 of this game, I had a hard time getting high scores and great bowling stats when playing State 
 (hard) difficulty. Now with this new 2007 version I can easily get to 0-1200 (no wickets for twelve-hundred 
 runs) within 50 overs on Test (very hard) , and then bowl the other team out for 40. I know that 
 Australia is a great team, but that's just ridiculous! This lack of a challenge really takes away 
 from the overall experience. This can really only be avoided when playing against a friend, unless 
 your friend is a complete idiot. Actually, even then it'd still be more of a challenge than you'd 
 get playing against the AI.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are better than its predecessor, sure, but are still sub-par for the 
 next-gen Xbox 360. Although the player models themselves look quite good (and at least now if a 
 player is black in real life, he'll be represented by a black character in the game, unlike in 
 previous editions) the backgrounds (stadium, crowd etc.) and field itself aren't really all that 
 special at all. Several minor graphical glitches appear here and there - ones that definitely should 
 have been fixed had this game gone through any testing phase at all - but nothing that's really 
 too annoying for the player.
  
  Sound:
  Same phrases and mostly the same voices as the 2005 version. This isn't necessarily a bad thing 
 though - it's always satisfying to take a wicket at middle stump and then have the commentator 
 proudly say Comprehensively bowled! . It's equally as fun when playing against a friend to join 
 in with the commentators when he drops a catch with It's a well known fact that catches win matches 
 (in a Jamaican accent) . There's not a person alive who won't get greatly annoyed by this.
  
  Value:
  This game is currently a full-price game. I'll let you come to your own decision 
 about whether it's worth it or not, based on this review.
  
  Tilt:
  Despite it's many flaws, I'm glad I own this game. This is in no small part due to the fact that 
 I absolute love cricket, and as far as I'm concerned any cricket game is better than no cricket 
 game at all. This is the one and only reason this game scored 7.5 from me.
  
  Summary:
  I had been eagerly awaiting this instalment of Brian Lara's International Cricket, and had high 
 hopes for it, given all the promises Codemasters (the developer) made about this game in press 
 releases and interviews. It's very disappointing to see that when developing this game, the developer 
 put apparently very little effort into making it all that it could be - even some of the most obvious 
 bugs have been left in from the previous release. This game really feels like more of a patch to 
 the previous one than a whole new release. So the bottom line is this: if you really absolutely 
 love cricket as a sport and just have to play it on your Xbox 360 then this game is for you. If 
 you're indifferent to the sport, then save your pennies for another day. It's not going to win 
 cricket any new fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manic111
Rating: 1.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game improves on the last in the series in a few ways. You can now throw to the bowlers end 
 (wow) , advance down the wicket (which makes barely any difference in the game) , and sweep. Sounds 
 fantastic? Well, not really, because these should all have been in the last game anyway. Speaking 
 about the last game, that struck a great balance between batting and bowling. On county difficulty, 
 you could slog a few an over relatively safely, while on test difficulty you had to bide your time 
 and wait for the bad ball. Just like in real cricket, so why change it?
  
  Of course, Codemasters being Codemasters, they did change it. Now it is not only possible, but 
 normal to score 500 every innings at 13 or 14 an over. At the start of your innings your top order 
 batsmen are simply too good. I slapped a six straight back over Shoaib Akhtar's head off a good 
 length, off stump 97mph ball. Frankly if you dont score at 12 an over, you should probably take 
 up another hobby.
  
  But it gets worse. LBW decisions are even more atrocious than they were on the last game. Now nothing 
 will get given, until you suddenly get struck on the thigh pad with a ball that has spun back from 
 a mile outside leg stump. Then the umpires stick up the finger of death.
  
  The fielding is abysmal. Catching the ball is impossible, and occurs seemingly at random. Stop 
 the bar in the middle and your fielder generally drops it. Stop it at the end, and he generally 
 drops it. You seem just to get about 1 out of 10 attempted catches, no matter what you do. This 
 makes batting even easier, as you can slog with barely any chance of being caught.
  
  The throwing is nearly as bad. It is possible to run a quick single to first slip without any risk 
 of being run out, simply in virtue of the fact that, having dived for it, he has to go through 
 the rigmarole of standing up bringing his arm back, and throwing it. By this time, if the batsmen 
 have not run, they must have fallen asleep instead.
  
  To make matters worse, overthrows have been included. They happen at least twice an over, and are 
 liable to occur unless you stop the bar dead in the center. Which you wont. Ever. Because it moves 
 at the speed of one of the sixes you tonked out the ground earlier.
  
  The fielders must, frankly, be braindead. They make no effort to move to the ball, and often run 
 the wrong way. Your outfielders dont actually move at all until the ball has swept past your inner 
 circle of fielders. Which is infuriating, because your inner circle couldnt stop an old lady in 
 a wheelchair.
  
  All in all, this game is an embarrassment. I adore cricket, and have done for most of my life. 
 Yet this rewards simple minded hammering of the slog button, which sees the ball go for six time 
 and time again, or fall into and then out of the hands of the hapless fielders in quick succession.
 
  
  The only reason that this did not get ones across the board is that it is more enjoyable than my 
 revision for my finals. Quite frankly, dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorbiD_PiXie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  I don't know about the other Gamespot readers, but I was a tad peeved that EA didn't release Cricket 
 07 on Next-Gen hardware. It seems wierd that it only went to PS2 and PC. I mean, the PC version 
 looks fine with everything cranked up, so why not use the same hi-res textures for the 360? I don't 
 know. But what I DO know is that International Cricket 2007 has stolen alot of their next-gen thunder. 
 Alot of people just bought it because it's Cricket and it's next-gen. Not a bad impulse buy if 
 you consider some other not so great titles ...
  
  Now International Cricket 2007. As soon as I started it up I enjoyed the clean and quick menu interface. 
 Pure and functional. I jumped straight into a Custom Twenty20 match to see what this is all about. 
 To my dismay, the player names were totally off. Now I havn't played the previous International 
 Cricket versions. So I was thinking O dear, another Pro Evolution Soccer (Winning Eleven) licensing 
 issue! . I was dumbfounded. Even entertained thoughts of returning it right there and then. But 
 then I poked around a bit more. Only the ICC Champions Trophy and the ICC Cricket World Cup had 
 the proper player names. And since this is INTERNATIONAL Cricket 2007 I didn't bother with anything 
 else ... That's all you really need.
  
  After the initial scare I continued playing. As the official GameSpot review says, the batting 
 and bowling is incredibly easy to understand, master and then manipulate. On the other hand, fielding 
 is atrocious. A little indicator pops up when the ball is close to your fielder, now, to judge 
 WHEN it actually IS close to your fielder, that's a different challenge altogether. The camera 
 is fixed obviously, but this becomes a big issue when the ball is struck down the ground. The camera 
 will pan down, then all of a sudden a fielder will pop into view with the indicator bar already 
 full. It's like you're trying to guess when the fielder will get there.
  
  I've gotten around that by just tapping LT or RT (for keeper or bowler) while the ball is still 
 rolling. If you find a rhythm, you can almost always hit the indicator in the middle. Sometimes 
 it fails, but hey. At least it's something.
  
  Another issue with fielding is that, as mentioned, you use the triggers for throwing in, but you 
 have to use the A button for catching. This gets extremely confusing, when you've practised throwing 
 in with the triggers, then a catch comes up, and you hit the trigger to catch the ball ... DROPPED. 
 Then you have to sit there with Tony Greig saying That's not good cricket or the popular Everyone 
 knows that catches win matches . IRRITATING! I just hit A and the triggers at the same time now 
 to avoid anything. It really needs some work. O Yes, and your keeper will ALWAYS take the bails 
 off after a throw in ... even when the batsman has been standing in his crease for close to ETERNITY!
 
  
  But with the fielding aside, the game does provide a solid Cricket experience. Especially playing 
 with your mates. Getting that last wicket in the last over when they need 6 runs really gives the 
 same sense of achievement than a real live cricket game does.
  
  I would recommend this to cricket fans everywhere. And face it, we will probably have to wait for 
 Cricket 08 from EA before we get another one on the 360 or any current console.
  
  Thanks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calmec
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  It was clear from the onset that this game had been rushed through by the makers to meet the release 
 date during the ICC Cricket World cup 2007.
  
  They clearly knew there were several problems but just decided to release it anyway, which is not 
 on for those buying it.
  
  You expect to get a game that is properly tested to iron out bugs and improve gameplay as much 
 as possible but this might aswell been tested by a baseball fanatic cos it certainly doesn't play 
 like a cricket game at times.
  
  Batting is far too easy, the number of times the ball sails over the ropes with ease makes the 
 game feel like an arcade game than a simulation. I've played several online and offline matches 
 and have scored over 100 runs in 6 over matches several times (against straight bowling) . The only 
 time you can stop runs is by trying dirty tactics by bowling incredibly short (with spinners) or 
 full and wide with all the fielders on the fence.
  
  Also the running between the wickets can be very odd at times. Several times the batsmen will not 
 run in their bat and will simply 'place their bat in the crease' which can lead to ridiculously 
 unrealistic runouts which can be very annoying.
  
  The fielding system is the one decent thing about the game, its all manually operated from pick 
 up to throw back and catching. Though catching with the wicket keeper and slips is incredible difficult 
 and probably should have been done by the computer rather than by the human player.
  
  The bowling is realistic with all the bowlers real bowling actions incorporated and mixing up the 
 deliveries with slower balls and off cutters keeps the player interested.
  
  Both bowlers and batters have a confidence meter applied with full confidence giving the abilty 
 to 'dance down the wicket' for the batsmen and 'special deliveries' for the bowlers. This system 
 rewards consistent good play.
  
  The sound though in the game is nothing short of appauling. The crowd are as enthusiastic as OAP's 
 in old peoples homes, you here the slightest cheer and ripple of applause when a boundary is hit 
 which gives the impression the crowd is disinterested in the match being played.
  
  The Graphics in the game are certainly not XBOX 360 standards with the players faces looking nothing 
 like their real life counterparts and the stadium and crowd detail being very ordinary indeed. 
 What could have been the saving grace for this game is the online mode but this too is flawed. 
 The games freeze with alarming regularity, its impossible to get through a proper world cup from 
 the super six stage or group stage as players constantly drop out and the ranking system for ranked 
 matches is very odd indeed. Ive played 12 matches and won all 12 yet my rating has only risen by 
 3 points throughout, yet several players that have played one match and won one have higher ratings 
 than me??
  
  So although there are positive elements about the game the negatives certainly outweigh them and 
 are very obvious which makes this game on the whole a huge dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imnotapoof
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  When this game started i fired it up with big expectations. One bug i realized is the batsmen sometimes 
 just doesnt care if hes out, and the wicket keeper always trying to knock off the stumps. But even 
 with those bugs this game is still passes my expectations with flying colours. I played a game 
 against West Indies in the world cup having won all my other games ive realised West Indies tried 
 to reach my target edventaully with 2 overs spare. 20/20 i got 124 when they got 125. The run rates 
 at times are a little bit unsettling but against a mate/s is fun and you can have a mini tournament 
 or just have a little England and Australia or whoever. This games learning curve is a little bit 
 easy but still is very very playable. Which will add to the arcade element of the pick up and play. 
 Ive relised its really easy to hit shots for four and easy to hit them for six (not as easy as you 
 may think) . I recommend this game to anyone who likes cricket or shares little interest in the 
 game. There is going to be a patch which will remove all of the annoyances in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Having been a fan of BL on the Ps2 i was REALLY looking foward to a nex gen updated and improved 
 360 version of the game. Now you would think that with all the capacity and power of the 360 this 
 would not only be a good game to play but eye candy too! WRONG!! Limited game modes, poor poor 
 graphics, limited gameplay and ANNOYING sound make this a very poor game indeed! The fielding aspect 
 of the game is a joke, the crowds look ridiculous, as do the cricketers themselves. There's nothing 
 hi-def about this game! Don't get me onto the loading times!! The Ps2 version was fun and playable 
 and had a very satisfing slogfest feel to it, should that be what you want. There's no depth to 
 this game and certainly no longevity or replay value! Once you get over the Oh Wow I've slogged 
 the ball extra hard and.... Oh I'm out by the most AMAZING CPU fielding side, that would make Superman 
 look sh*t Then you'll be taking this game back. There is NOTHING special about this game! Rubbish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t14_red
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  wow it was good i liked it very much it was very very perfect. everythin is ligit so how cn it rip 
 off . easy to play and learn it should have been more better.
  warwa
  warwar
  rwarwar
  warwarw
  rwarwarw
  rwarwar
  warwar
  warwarwa
  rwarwa warwa rwar war war war war war wa 
 rw ar war w rwa rwa r wrwa r w wa r war war wa rwa rwa r war wa rwa rwa rw ar w rwa rwa rw rw ar 
 aw r war wa raw r war wa r wa r war wa r war wa r r wa r awr waraw r aw rwa rwa rwa rw war wa r 
 war wa wa rwa rwa rwaw r rwa rwa rwa r awr aw rwa r aw rwa rwa r wa rawr aw r awr aw rwa aw r 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quilpie
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  this cricket game has let me down, first of all the players names are wrong , only in world cup 
 mode are they right. no carrer mode. there is not much to do play the world cup when thats done 
 all you can do is play custom one day cricket and custom test . fair enough you can make your own 
 players . and teams . but there is no stat records so when your player knocks a ton it is not record, 
 so the next game you play with your created players there is no recorod of there past games this 
 is a big let down as this is why you wont to have your player records to carrer over so you can 
 see how many runs or wickets you have taken in the many months you play the game. yes the batting 
 is spot on and the bowling is great . but at $109.95. au . this is not enough to buy this game no 
 depth no carrer mode just the world cup and online mode. buy this game if and when it sells for 
 under$50.00 au. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Of all the reasons to buy a game, mine must be a little out in space. I moved to the land of Oz 
 2 years ago, and i always miss out on a lot of bar jokes as they seem to involve Cricket (not to 
 mention other expressions tossed my way) . So, there i was buying Cricket for Dummies. Now this 
 is in itself a decent book, and i picked up on it, but, it all makes a lot of sense to practice 
 the game itself, hence i saw that RICKY PONTING 2007 had a coaching part. the graphics are quite 
 good and not to mention it is all about cricket. So there i was, playing the weekend as a batsman 
 and doing not too bad overal. Now, i am way from a bicentennial, but this game has pnty of little 
 extra's that will make the game fun to play.
  
  It is wrong to comment on the game from a cricket point of view, because i haven't even mastered 
 the rules. But i can tell you that this good looking game is a very decent way to learn the game 
 cricket and learn how to play it.
  On the bad side there are a few quirks that are not an issue for gameplay, but would make for a 
 decent innovation. 1. the players should be picted with real photographs. these artsy pictures 
 are decent by themselves, but the 360 is more then capable of displaying a decent photograph.
 
  2. get a themed view of the menu's (Like Madden 2005) .
  3. a little more difference (diversity) in commentary.
  
  These aren't major points and in 
 itself there is so much in this game, but i reckon that tweeking this will mean serious improvements 
 when RICKY PONTING 2008 is releaed.
  
  So, who is this Brian Lara anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This is a good game it has its up points and has very little down points.
  I think this game is very good fun but a little bit easy on some modes like village it is extreamly 
 easy and county is a little bit easy aswell.
  I think the worst down point is the players names when u do custom matchs and also the teams have 
 differnt shirts but flintoff is called flantiff and panasar is called parisian so that is one big 
 down point.
  But in the world cups 06 &amp; 07 there names are all right :D
  so thats good.
  This game is so much fun online and offline you can do all kinda shots like sweeps 
 and you can even run out ya crease and smash it for 6 &amp; 4
  Fielding some times if ur close enuff to the wickets you can stump them out by throughing it (different 
 to 05) and you get to pick whats end you through the ball to
  
  So i reccomend to buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanescentlion
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Having pre ordered this title iwas quite looking forward to play it. The one thing that i liked 
 about codemasters is that they had a forum set up after the previous version and asked players 
 to give their own inputs. While some of these have been answered there are still a lot of issues 
 that need to be addressed. Firstly, lets go onto the good points.
  The game is very good for playing against other human players. The commentary is smooth and the 
 stats for players is very up to date. However, I think it is best to judge this game on its bad 
 points. While being a next gen title, the graphics have not been improved upon by a great deal 
 since the last outing. Also, the depth of the game is lacking. There are only 4 real options to 
 choose from and these are very limiting. Outside the official tournaments, there are no real player 
 names and no editors to rectify this, but i dont really belive this to be a bad point as pro evo 
 didnt hold the official licenses for a long time and it didnt really impact on gameplay. I think 
 that although it appears to have heeded a few of suggestions made by fans, there are a lot of let 
 downs that coddies could have done without and avoided. I have not played it online yet, but judging 
 from the forum there are a few teething problems.
  If u are a hardcore cricket fan, then this will probably not be your cup of tea. If you're looking 
 for a bit of fun with your mates then this is good for wasting a few hours. This being the only 
 cricket game on the 360 thus far may be its only saving grace and for this reason fans of cricket 
 will have to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Britishpixel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The music sets the scene. In the same way Brian Lara 2005 tended to revolve around the Ashes, Brian 
 Lara 2007 revolves around the 2007 Cricket World Cup in the West Indies. It even appears in your 
 dashboard ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 rather than the Brian Lara label which we tend to use. If 
 you bought the 2005 Brian Lara for the last gen then you are in pretty familiar ground. AI is slightly 
 improved but overall game play is the same as last time. Is that such a problem? No. Game play 
 is still fun and addictive as ever. Just one more over just won't cut it for your ever eager gaming 
 hands.
  
  One problem I have found with the game play is the fielding. I don't know if it is a problem felt 
 with everyone else or it's my poor hand-eye coordination, but I can't for the life of me throw 
 a ball to the keeper and him to catch it. You need to get the bar dead in the centre or he'll drop 
 it, losing vital wickets. Some say this adds to the challenge, but to me it just detracts from 
 the essential realism of the rest of the cricket game. As I've already said I found the music, 
 a Caribbean number currently on a UK TV advert, very appropriate. I would have of course liked 
 the traditional music, but this does make up for it.
  
  There isn't a huge variety of games to play on here, but then there isn't in the real game either. 
 This shouldn't be a problem for cricket fans however, as the challenges for the world cup and ICC 
 league should keep you occupied to make it worth the &pound;40. The achievements are many and some 
 are quite easy to get, but some will have to work on and keep you playing the game for longer. 
 Overall I recommend this game for people with even a casual interest in cricket. Trust me, it doesn't 
 sound like it but it does translate well into video game format! There are even tutorials to help 
 you get started and helpful hints at the cricket vocabulary to keep you up to speed with what is 
 going on. For everyone else with no cricket interest, apart from wondering why you're reading this 
 review, I don't recommend you get this game - this game won't make you like cricket! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anandram
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This isnt a bad game at all really.
  
  There's nothing really taht different about BL cricket and the last installment to be honest. The 
 new additions i think are the manual aspect of everything, whereas you actually have to stop a 
 meter near enough in the middle to catch a ball.... keeps you alert,, but thats about it.
  
  Nothing in terms of newness but the online aspect i think saves this game totally... but even this 
 gets slightly boring. There's only so much cricket you can play without getting bored silly really.
 
  
  Another thing i noticed was that the players names are not spelled correctly. I noticed this with 
 india, but not sure about the rest. If this is the case, then someone needs to change the back 
 of the case where it says 'authentic names'!!
  
  Overall -- and ok cricket game with great graphics/replays. If you havent bought a cricket game and 
 wanted one -- get this one only for the online experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Achievements: Fair
  
  Pros: Recreates the feel of cricket; both bowling and batting are fun; commentary is good for a 
 change; nice theme tune; good tutorials
  
  Cons: Some dodge character models; crowd effects are rubbish; catches are really difficult; occasionally 
 iffy AI; poor manual
  
  I am fairly new to cricket having become a spectator and fan after moving to Canterbury, home of 
 Kent County Cricket. BL 2007 is my first cricket game, so I am lucky in that I dont have anything 
 to compare it with.
  
  The game features most of the licensed teams from the ICC World Cup, and you can recreate the tournament 
 in the main game mode; you can also play ODI, 20-20 and Test Matches. XBL supports up to four players 
 with extra players playing as the second batsman or fielder.
  
  Bowling is performed by pressing one of 6 buttons that vary the delivery (fast, swinging, slow, 
 yorkers, googlies etc.) with the shoulder buttons used to add swing in the air. The bowling is 
 a lot of fun and the game faithfully recreates its look and feel. The bowling becomes a bit of 
 a game of chess as you adjust the field positions and plan your next attack: for instance, do you 
 use slips with an out-swinger, or fire a yorker straight at the batsmans feet? The bowler has 
 a confidence meter, which enables you to pull off the more difficult deliveries (such as bouncers 
 and yorkers) as you search for a wicket.
  
  Batting is equally rewarding with 6 buttons used to select the type of shot to play (safely, slog, 
 drive, or sweep) . The key to batting is timing, and you must carefully judge the bowlers delivery 
 to make the perfect shot. The batsman also features a confidence meter that allows him to pull 
 of more powerful strokes at the risk of getting stumped easier.
  
  Fielding is less successful and is at times down-right frustrating. Catches seem impossibly difficult 
 to master. When a ball is destined for a catch a meter appears on the screen for a split second. 
 You must hit the meter right in the middle to pull off the catch. The problem is the meter often 
 appears very fast, with the camera quickly changing, making it very difficult to hit the A button 
 in time and make the catch.
  
  The graphics in BL 2007 are functional and colourful, but at times comical: wait until you see 
 Freddy Flintoffs face! Backgrounds are watered down with a heat haze effect that occasionally 
 make the horizon look like a cheap watercolour. The player animations are fluid enough, and the 
 bowler and batsman look life like and realistic. The action replays look very good, with the ball 
 spinning dramatically through the air. The whole presentation is very TV like with the use of hawkeye, 
 replays, and batting+bowling summaries.
  
  The sound is pretty basic. The crowd effects are repetitive and there is only one music track; 
 but at least it is a good one. Worthy of praise is the in-game commentary from a wide selection 
 of TV and Radio commentators. BL 2007 is one of the few games where the commentary adds to the 
 atmosphere and not just annoy you.
  
  I have yet to try XBL but I dont image any lag issues because the style of the game. The single 
 player game modes are fine, if a little bland: regular ODI, Test and 20-20. The real value in this 
 game will be in the online play. The achievements are well designed, encouraging varied games, 
 and are nicely balanced with some being easy, whilst others are much more challenging. You would 
 not say any of the achievements are impossible, unlike UEFA Champions League 2007!
  
  Overall, this is a faithful recreation of leather against willow and is a must buy for anyone who 
 enjoys Cricket. If you are not a Cricket fan then you might struggle with the nuances of this game 
 as it does assume a good understanding of the tactics and strategies involved in Cricket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bindip
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Well if you got a standard TV the graphics are going to look pritty poor. Even if you 
 have a HDTV they only look abit better. The graphics in this game arent that good. Some bits look 
 great then some look really really rubbish.
  
  Sound - THANK GOD the sound is really good over BLC05. The sound has got a really good tune that 
 gets you in the mood of the game.
  
  Online - Very very good. Play up to touries with 16 players, quick , fun , fast action.
  
  
 Gameplay - If you liked BLC05 then this is even better. Its got the same features as BLC05 but 
 adds some more stuff into the mixer and works out pritty well.
  
  Bad Points - Fielding side is good however when you take a catch in the slips you have like 1 second 
 or less to reacat. Some times when the fielders hit the wickets it goes to a replay but the batsmen 
 didnt even run hes just standing there ??? In normal mode players names are not offical just made 
 up.
  
  Overall with the support of online play this will keep cricket fans coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukentj123
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Brian Lara '07. The game of games. Or so we assumed. After Brian Lara '05, a mirracle of cricket 
 gaming behind its original counterpart, I has nothing but high hopes for this new release. Screen 
 shots confirmed my assumptions - that this game would be like the elixir of cricket, captured on 
 a disc and put into my 360.
  
  But it was not to be. Today, Friday 23rd March 2007, at 2:00 GMT, did i venture forth to my nearest 
 computer game retailer to buy this 'cricket god'. I write this now, after hours of assessing every 
 inch of the gameplay, and what I have come out with is as much of a shock to me, as it will be 
 to you - it is utter rubbish. It has gone backwards. It makes me hate the game, my 360, myself, 
 even life itself because I am absolutely sure that this game was concocted by a 1930's possy of 
 moonshine brewers, brought from the past, injected with a burning hatred of cricket, and asked 
 to direct the creative process of this fabled tablet.
  
  But seriously. The graphics. They are marginally better. It has 2 new shots - the sweep and slog 
 sweep. You can move down the wicket.
  
  Woopey doo.
  
  Some other points. It is so appallingly easy it makes me want to tear my hair out. On my first 
 go, test difficulty, versus New Zealand, I scored 450 runs in 23 god damned overs! Thats a new 
 ODI record on the hardest setting on my first go with less than half of the given overs! I feel 
 angry writing about it. Making quick singles your batters don't rush in and make it safe, they 
 stop with yards to go, turn around and slowly place their bats in the crease. I got run out twice 
 in comfortable singles because they just tried plonking the bat down even though they would have 
 been 2 metres into the crease if they ahd carried on! I scored 6 6's in and over twice. It has 
 digressed.
  
  Thats it. No, no its not it, its not it at all.
  
  The fielding side give the impression that they are blind, or unaware that they are required to 
 stop the ball. I hit 4's directly through fielders, and men on the boundary just don't fancy the 
 2 yard run to their left. No. They're all right where they are thankyou very much. Its not good 
 enough.
  
  Fair enough the bowling engine is ok. But thats because its exactly the same as '05 (which rocked) , 
 even though it seems clunkier and generally frustrating.
  
  And another thing - you can't put yourself in a national side and compete in any real competitions. 
 No, you must create yourself with mega stats and put yourself in a custom team?!?!?! There is no 
 gaining skill points by doing well, scoring runs, takings wickets. No, its given to you! It's no 
 fun! It's so boring!
  
  I invite anybody to play this game for more than 2 hours and feel satisfied. It is a stain on Brian 
 Lara's legend, the Brian Lara trademark, and the game of cricket.
  
  Imagine FIFA 07 for the 360. Make it even worse.
  
  Build a passionate hatred for that game 
 and the game it simulates, and then play it.
  
  And there you go, you may be within a few lightyears of the feeling of deflation this game provokes.
 
  
  Brian Lara. HA. Your the cricketing equivalent of Tony Blair with a gammy leg and 1 arm. Leave 
 it out.
  
  What an utter failure. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
