-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/brothersinarms3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great blend of squad control and first-person combat.
 Vibrant, detailed environments.
 Battlefield sounds will put you on edge.
 Interesting characters.
 Action camera is exhilarating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story relies too much on knowledge of past games.
 Texture irregularities can sour cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,725 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hell's Highway proves to be an exciting, engaging ride despite a few bumps along the way. 

  The first two games in the Brothers in Arms series distinguished themselves among the crowd of 
 WWII shooters on the strength of their smoothly integrated first-person squad control and gritty, 
 moving portrayal of a band of Allied soldiers. Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway sticks to these 
 strengths, and commanding your squads through Nazi-occupied territory is more thrilling than ever 
 thanks to the vibrant, beautiful scenery and the brutal, exhilarating action. Sergeant Baker (your 
 character) and his squad are all nuanced, sympathetic characters, though the story doesn't quite 
 live up to the promise of its protagonists. Despite a few irregular beats, Hell's Highway is an 
 exciting, intense shooter that is sure to quicken your pulse.  

  This go-around finds Sergeant Matt Baker and his crew carrying the memories of their fallen brothers 
 and welcoming replacements into the fold. As they get set to drop into Holland as a part of the 
 ambitious but doomed Operation Market-Garden, you meet the men whose lives you will be responsible 
 for. The story isn't so much a narrative as it is an exploration of the relationships between soldiers; 
 it's a mature look at the way bonds can be forged and broken in the emotional furnace of war. Through 
 engaging cutscenes and lively battlefield communication, you'll find yourself developing an attachment 
 to these characters. Many great moments, both comic and tragic, resonate with an admirable emotional 
 clarity that unflinchingly evokes the turbid reality of war, where triumph and tragedy walk hand 
 in hand.  

           The grenade reticle helps you gauge how effective your throw will be.      

  Unfortunately, 
 some of these potentially great moments will fall flat if you're not well acquainted with old characters 
 like Leggett, Allen, and Garnett. Hell's Highway often tries to lean on emotional pillars created 
 by traumas from the first two games (both released in 2005) , but the "previously on Brothers in 
 Arms" segment isn't solid enough to support these references, and the framework crumbles a bit 
 as a result. As the game progresses you'll gain the knowledge needed to prop up these references; 
 this makes a second play-through more appealing, but it's a shame this understanding isn't established 
 earlier.  

  Once on the battlefield, your comrades become potent weapons at your command. Hell's Highway offers 
 a tutorial on the proper way to manage your squads, and you'd best pay attention, since going it 
 alone will get you into trouble in a hurry. Strategy boils down to firing on German positions to 
 keep them suppressed, then flanking around to a better angle and finishing them off. Your men are 
 capable soldiers and will shout advice at you if you seem to be stagnating. They will also do their 
 fair share of killing but are still occasionally liable to run on the wrong side of a wall when 
 ordered to a different position. It hurts to lose one of your men in battle, regardless of the 
 fact that he'll be patched up at your next checkpoint. You are their commander and they are entrusting 
 their lives to you, a weight expertly transferred to your shoulders by Sgt. Baker's cutscenes and 
 voice-overs. Hell's Highway motivates you strategically and emotionally to be a smart leader, and 
 it's surprisingly engaging to focus on something other than yourself in a first-person shooter. 

  Battles become even more complex as you take more squads under your command and incorporate machine 
 gun and bazooka units. The former is excellent at suppressing enemies, while the latter can destroy 
 sandbag barriers and elevated enemy positions in houses and towers (particularly awesome) . As you 
 get the hang of squad command, you'll begin wielding your men as extensions of yourself and moving 
 through battlefields as an elite, coordinated unit. Taking apart and dispatching a field full of 
 entrenched German units is immensely satisfying, and this feeling of power is what makes Brothers 
 in Arms so rewarding.  

  Despite the focus on squad combat, Hell's Highway demands a strong individual performance from 
 you. Oftentimes you'll be the lone flanking unit, and you'll have to shoot accurately and make 
 smart use of cover to survive. There are also sections where you go it alone, and you'll have to 
 be nimble to both suppress and flank the Nazis yourself. Fortunately, you are a crack shot and 
 can hit half-exposed German helmets from a substantial distance if you can find enough time to 
 pop your head out and aim down your sights. When you score a particularly impressive shot or throw 
 a well-aimed grenade, the action camera will kick in to highlight your success. The camera will 
 zoom in on the Germans and the action will slow down dramatically, treating you to a gory display 
 of flying limbs, severed torsos, or burst skulls. It's a bit overblown, but you'll probably be 
 too busy roaring triumphantly to care.  

           The action camera is definitely excessive, whether you revel in it or disable it is up 
 to you.      

  Realism is abundant throughout the game, though, thanks to the excellent audio and visual design. 
 Each gun has a variety of unique sounds, and nearby explosions cause your ears to ring, drowning 
 out all other battlefield noise. Bullets smack into cover you've hidden behind and whistle by your 
 head disconcertingly, while tables and fences splinter and break in ways that both sound and look 
 realistic. Your comrades are also quite detailed, though occasionally their facial textures will 
 load a bit late, leaving you with a blurry, expressionless facsimile that can vitiate any emotional 
 involvement you may feel. As you venture through the Dutch countryside and into more-populated 
 zones, the landscape will change, but the superb level of detail will be constant throughout, only 
 periodically marred by a lackluster texture or two. The different landscapes do have a certain 
 sameness to them, as each tries to allow for squad-based tactics, but on the whole these battlefields 
 provide fantastic arenas for combat.  

  There are a number of multiplayer maps as well, and each supports up to 20 combatants. Two teams 
 face off in successive standard capture-the-territory contests, respawning only at the beginning 
 of each round. The twist is that each squad member has a certain role, from squad leader to weapons 
 specialist to tank operator. Squad leaders can call in aerial recon, while weapon specialists travel 
 with protective squads and deal their own unique brand of destruction. Well populated matches are 
 lively and intense, as fully-manned teams work together to stay alive, back each other up, and 
 thwart their opponents. Add in a vocal squad leader, and there is ample potential for exciting 
 battles. However, there are still plenty of lone wolves roaming about, and whether players will 
 fully embrace the squad mentality remains to be seen.  

  What is certain now is that Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is another rousing entry in a great 
 series. The beautiful landscapes complement the gritty combat, and thoughtful cinematic techniques 
 breathe life into the engaging characters. Despite the somewhat spotty story and sundry oddities, 
 Hell's Highway is a game you should consider playing twice. The unlockable "authentic" difficulty 
 mode removes all the heads-up display elements and really allows the visual design to shine. The 
 story resonates more powerfully because you know the characters well, and the renewed challenge 
 ratchets up the intensity. With so many exciting elements, Hell's Highway provides ample motivation 
 to don the Allied uniform once more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (152 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway is the third installment of a series taking place in WW2 which 
 focusses on the relationships between soldiers and offers action combined with tactics alike. The 
 narrative of this game is even more intense than the one of it's predecessors. You step in the 
 role of sergeant Matt Baker and thus you'll have to give orders. Therefore you may control up to 
 three squads within the story. This might be challenging and exciting simultaneously as the game 
 has an interesting story to tell.
  
  
  Friendship, despair and madness are the main elements of the plot of Hell's Highway. Together with 
 his friend Joe Hartsock, Matt Baker leads an information unit in the "Operation Market Garden", 
 which in Sept. 1944 was meant to bring Second World War to an end quickly. According to history 
 books you'll remember that some things didn't work.
  
  
  Hell's Highway starts with a flashback to previous Brothers in Arms Road to Hill 30 and Earned 
 in Blood which later in the game reappear in larger contexts. At no time are the back references 
 disjointed. Besides there are some individual stories told including the on of Franky, the youngest 
 of the soldiers who fell in love with a girl in Eindhoven. However, this ends up in a dramatic 
 scene unfortunately not showing a happy ending for them. At a different point in the story you 
 have to rescue a young boy. You'll succeed but some time later in the game this hasn't a happy 
 ending either as the boy dies in a bombardment.
  
  
  Basically the gameplay hasn't improved a lot compared to it's precursors. You control several squads 
 and thus giving them commands such as covering themselves behind a fence or wall, shooting a sniper 
 with the rocket launcher. Therefore you will have to have certain strategies to complete a mission 
 successfully. Anyhow, I recognized that your AI companions act a bit weird occasionally. If this 
 happens in the heat of the battle expect them to die quickly but most of the time they behave intelligently. 
 Like mentioned above this is the main element of BIA's gameplay. But you may control a tank and 
 get a sniper rifle further in the game. 
  
  
  With covering and flanking you have to make your way through the ten long missions. Several times 
 you have to destroy flak-guns or tanks. With the help of a strategical map, you might identify 
 possible routes, important points, and enemy positions. Whilst the approach to the missions are 
 often the same it can get repetitive after a while. Thus playing a tank or sniping adds some variety.
 
  
  
  Don't expect you enemies to act stupid as the shift positions and cover themselves as well. However, 
 you are flanked scarcely from the sides. To that they never throw grenades, but use rocket launchers.
 
  
  
  Using the Unreal engine Hell's Highway offers much better graphics than it's precursors. The whole 
 visual design is good delivering lots of detail in the small towns and the spot around the farms. 
 Anyhow, it's nothing you would say "Wow". On occasion there are some glitches, too. To that there 
 are some bad textures. Hell's Highway wins when it comes to lighting effects. The night mission 
 in Eindhoven burns itself into your memory, literally. 
  
  Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway is a great tactical shooter in a WW2 setting. You will have fun 
 controlling your squads through the missions though it can get repetitive. To that there isn't 
 much replay value as long as you do not want to try a different tactic for the same mission. However, 
 the game delivers an online multiplayer that I didn't really care about as it is tedious anyway 
 and has just one mode. I completed the game in less than ten hours for my first playthrough but 
 you can add some hours for playing it on a different difficulty setting. I had much fun as long 
 as it lasted as the story is very enthralling. Unfortunately players might have little problems 
 getting into the story as some things refer to previous games. I would consider this game having 
 the best story told in a WW2 shooter as the way everything is narrated is utterly great. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  -----------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: B+
  Storyline: A
  Sound: A-
  Graphics: A
  Replay Value: High
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  There 
 is a lot to talk about with Hell's Highway. The game takes place during World War II, to be exact, 
 Operation Market Garden. This is a first-person tactical shooter, which is also sort of a horror 
 game as well. There are a couple times during gameplay where ghostly encounters happen. 
  
  Talking about gameplay, you command your squad. Which they are pretty useless if you don't tell 
 them what to do or what to shoot at. There were countless times where I was running for my life, 
 and my squad never shot a thing. The AI schematic is not the greatest. Most of the time when you 
 put some charges on a Mortor, some of your sqaudmates never really get the memo, and they blow 
 up with the dang thing. Gameplay has its intense moments, kind of like Call of Duty World at War, 
 just not as intense.
  
  There are a lot of cinematic videos in the game, which really bring out the gorgeous graphics. 
 Gameplay has pretty awesome graphics as well. I couldn't help but drawl because the graphics were 
 amazing. Sound was good too.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  PROS: Great graphics. Awesome weapons. Intense gameplay moments. Full-length cinematic videos, 
 which awesome graphics.
  CONS: Not so good AI. Too many Nazi's! Can't really think of anymore.
  RECOMMEND?: I recommend 
 this to anybody that likes WWII shooters, or tactical-command shooters, or anybody that just wants 
 to play a good game!
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reingleif
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a few months (2 i think) and I must say that the gampelay is just incredible. 
 In MoH and CoD you could crouch behind a barrier, but to shoot or see you had to stand, making 
 some parts of these games very "unrealistic", so BiA: HH introduces a new feature in WWII FPS, 
 making possible to stick behind a barrier justa by pressing a button and popping out with a single 
 stick movement. This game has got the flavour of MoH: EA, but more dramatic and much more centered 
 on your squad and its history than in the war. Add the gameplay of Gears of War and you will get 
 the perfect game: BiA HH.
  The campaign is just incredible, packed with action, suspense and drama, with you playing as Sgt. 
 Baker, a veteran of Normandy in the 101st Airborne
  The multiplayer (In Xbox Live) is good, but it could have been a lot better, event though youll 
 get some hours making friends and capturing the flag.
  The music is normal, not boring, but you wont notice its there (you dont need it when bullets 
 are lying past your head) .
  The grafics are good with almost no pixeling even in the most explosive situation.
  A good WWII 
 FPS you should try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  well, after 2 years, i was satisfied. but i had expected to be blown away after drooling over teaser 
 screen shots for a good chunk of my life. after two very worthy and innovative XBOX BIA games, 
 i couldn't stand the suspense till this one arrived. i popped it in the still-working 360 (gotta 
 do something about all the red ring bull, microsoft. for shame) and got to it. so, here's what 
 i found:
  
  good:
  - excellent graphics overall, with a few exceptions: muddy character faces and staged draw-ins 
 of some backgrounds.
  - nice, moody environments.
  - overall good game play, but because of the nature of the command system and attempt to achieve 
 a slower, more real-to-life style, a bit repetitive and pokey at times. 
  - immersive overall.
  
  not so good:
  - frame rate, glitch problems, particularly during 
 gnarly gun fights - and that's not a good time to have them. it really harms the experience and 
 other FPS games don't suffer nearly as many issues in this regard.
  - cut scenes are a tad long. would rather be playing.
  - as with the original games, load times 
 are slow.
  - grenade throwing is poor. COD handles this much better.
  - was hoping for more destructible environments.
  
  haven't tried online, as my first experience 
 ever is with COD WAW, and wow! it just doesn't get tired. so one day i'll check out this one.
 
  
  i'd buy the next edition if it happens, but would hope that a bunch of these glitches are remedied 
 by then. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: groceryguy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Having graduated from the PS2, here is my first review of the next generation stuff. The games 
 graphics are more lifelike, and there is definately more movement and detail. The gameplay has been 
 kept basically the same, which is a good thing in that you don't really have to read the manual 
 in detail all over again. The game seems to be more difficult than the others, even on the easy 
 level. The veteran level gets unlocked after you complete the game, and it is a monster! It takes 
 away all of your aids, so it is just like real combat. The only glaring bad spot to this otherwise 
 great game is the multiplayer is totally broken. When you play on custom match, the character goes 
 crazy, you wakk through walls, there is no control over it at all. The character just goes where 
 it wants, even flying through the air. I had to abandon it comletely. I don't know how this wasn't 
 seen. If you don't play much on multiplayer, this is a great game, but if you do, it is a disaster, 
 well not totally, on user created matches it's pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DenPacWOLF
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is a fair game with an abundance of historical data and comprehensive, yet long and repetitious 
 missions. 
  
  Gameplay: As a Tactical-Squad base fan, I did enjoy Brother's In Arms (BIA) use of squad based 
 tactics rather than a straight shooter. However, friendly AI rarely kill enemies and you spend 
 most of the time weaving around cover to kill 95% of the enemy on the map. Taking cover around 
 objects and the Action Camera are the best features in this game.
  
  Cons: BIA is a full length movie within this game, the cut scenes are ridiculously longer than 
 RPGs. Gearbox attempts to create a "Brother In Arms" emotion with with the main character and his 
 buddies. The acting was horrible and the story was just so uninteresting that I could not form 
 any "emotional" attachments with any characters. 
  
  This game has over 20 missions and the first few you will enjoy an action packed game but as you 
 think you are near the end of the game, there are just more missions to complete and the game did 
 get repetitious and missions objectives were fairly similar throughout the game. I had to shelf 
 this game for 2 months due to boredom and finally completed the game in about 40 hours on hard 
 setting. 
  
  I got this game at bargain price so if you have the time to sit through an immerse story and repetitious 
 gameplay I would recommend to buy it for 20$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firenzial
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 3:14 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms A well known series There games are magnificent they mix real history action and 
 a sad and emmersive story all together. And what do u get a whole lot of Nazi killing fun.
  
  
  The brothers in arms series is great but its this game that really made me think what would 
 it have been like Over there in the war in my view brothers in arms hells highway probably comes 
 the closest to the real thing. The game looks great the guns look magnificent the textures are 
 great (the flowers are 2D Ha) but the landscapes are amazing from lush green fields and paddocks 
 to burned out and bombed city's. the story in my opinion is magnificent new players should enjoy 
 it but veterans of the series will love it. But there's also some different things its not as intense 
 as some of the other games in the series. But the intensity is still there. One bad thing is that 
 there is some noticeable long texture loading times during a cut scene so sometimes at the start 
 of a cut scene you'll see a untextured face although noticeable i wouldn't really say its takes 
 anything out of the game so for hardcore WW2 shooter fans this is must buy but even for the casual 
 gamer you'll get an experience to remember from the game. So i suggest anyone who wants a sad and 
 compelling story to get this game..
  
  
  Have fun blowing Nazis limbs of in slow mo kill cam.
  
  
  xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBPackersrule
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Before you make any assumptions, I played Road to Hill 30 and Earned in Blood. I must say, Road 
 to Hill 30 was one of the worst games I had ever played. Earned in Blood was an improvement, and 
 I sort of liked it. Having waited 3 years to play HH, I had high hopes. But what the hell? First 
 off, the cover system is simply, hands down, the WORST cover system I have ever used. No blind 
 fire to speak of, so you must expose your head to take a shot, and this is a death wish. Forget 
 about throwing grenades from your cover spot. Because, for some bizarre reason, grenades fly instantly, 
 and are so small you can't see where they land. Now, in theory you can see where it will land, 
 but if you do this after throwing the grenade, and you see it next to your feet... boom. The guns 
 all handle pretty basic, but reloading is a pain in the ass, since it will say "reload" on the 
 screen until... well... you reload. The graphics are ugly. Despite it claiming to use Unreal 3, 
 the shadowing is horrendous, making a blur rather than a shadow. The cutscenes look PS2 quality, 
 and of course in the game, your character will speak... and not move his mouth. Apparently, the 
 members of the 101st were also ventriloquists. The multiplayer is terrible, but there is no need 
 for explanation. The tactics grow old fast. For the majority of the game all you do is fire at 
 them, run around, and shoot them in the back. The premise is interesting, but I really don't care 
 about a cursed pistol. On the plus side, if you want to rack up your gamerscore, this is the game 
 for you. All in all, this should have been a budget title. After playing Earned in Blood, I wanted 
 more, and this was not it. If you see this game for 20 bucks, get it. But I paid 34.99 for it and 
 it is going back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsattler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved this game!
  
  I didn't think I'd play another WWII game, much less like one, but this game was awesome. Great 
 graphics, great fun, well paced. And did I say fun yet? How about awesome? This game is now at 
 the top of my list.
  
  Let me say first how much I dislike games with autosaves based on checkpoints - let's say, I can't 
 stand any of the Call of Duty games by Treyarch for this simple reason - they usually are placed 
 at really stupid points in the game and make it so much UNFUN to play them that I'll never buy 
 another game that Treyarch is involved with again. I really enjoy the other COD versions not done 
 by Treyarch, they have checkpoints or allow you to save the game in places that getting past the 
 next element in the game is much more fun/challenging rather than just plain frustrating IMHO. 
 
  
  So, this game uses checkpoints yet they are done very well and I NEVER found myself frustrated 
 replaying a section to get past/master that element that the game became unfun. I found this to 
 be AWESOME and my hats off to the developer of this game. I like hard games, making me strategize 
 or otherwise think my way through a sequence. This game makes you do this and makes it fun at the 
 same time, at any difficulty setting. What a nice breath of fresh air. My hats off to the folks 
 at Gearbox. Let's be clear, if any developer is listening to their users - save anytime, anywhere 
 - please!
  
  The game is also well paced, and with various forms of difficulty settings, you can easily find 
 your cup of gameplay tea. I found them all to my liking. If you prefer your FPS games to be straightforward, 
 run and gun affairs, this title is probably NOT for you. Running straight into the enemy with your 
 gun blazing in this game will just get you killed. This game is more like chess with a squad and 
 WWII weapons. That means you have to think a bit to be successful, and there are many different 
 way to be successful. This in particular was what I found most satisfying about this game. There 
 wasn't just one way to skin the kraut if you get my drift. Fun!
  
  Your squad AI could use a bit of help, sometimes they end up on the wrong side of cover and get 
 obliterated, or they simply run into the line of enemy fire. But, you can start that sequence over 
 again and try it another way to be more successful, or simply do it all yourself (most cases, you 
 need your squads help to flank an enemy or at least create a diversion) . After each checkpoint, 
 they come back to life in full gear to assist again anyway...
  
  The graphics are simply awesome, rain dripping down your buddies face, sun streaming through cracks 
 in the wall, fire done better than Epic does it in their own Unreal engine games (IMHO) . The grass 
 was a bit 2d tho, but other than that, I thought the colors and everything else about the game 
 really good.
  
  The sound is excellent. Great on a 5.1 system.
  
  I truly enjoyed the slow motion camera from well placed headshots (splatter!) and grenade tosses. 
 And the associated achievements for them!
  
  If you're patient and enjoy a little strategy and a good storyline with your guns and grenades, 
 this game is well worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you should know about Hell's Highway, is that you should play the previous Brothers 
 in Arms titles first. It is a continuing story, and even though Hell's Highway tries to fill you 
 in on what's happened in past games, it can be very confusing trying to follow it all.
  
  That being said, if you've already played the others, Hell's Highway is definately one of the best 
 in the series. The A. I. has improved over the years, and now that the series has reached next gen 
 consoles, the graphics are the best they've ever been.
  
  The game sort of plays like Call of Duty, except there's a much more in depth cover system, and 
 you can command your teammates to flank opponents. You'll usually be in control of two or more 
 squads- a rocket launcher squad, and a couple assault teams.
  
  The maps in the campaign were made with team control in mind. Each map allows several routes to 
 your enemy and you'll always have a couple ways to flank them. Try to run and gun in Brothers in 
 Arms and you'll die very quickly, but once you get an eye for the environment you'll be unstoppable.
 
  
  There are a few segments where you'll control a tank. These segments are fun, but you'll most likely 
 want to get back to your squads before too long.
  
  Overall:
  
  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is a great game. The story is among the best you'll find in a 
 war game. It's emotional and deep, and it's easy to get attached to certain characters.
  It may be just another WW2 game, but the new tactical elements and depth spice up a genre that 
 perhaps has been worn out over the years.
  Not to mention, finding all the recon points and Killroys is fun, and adds a decent amount of replay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiABeasts
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I gave Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway a 10 out of 10, i say the difficulty is just right, and 
 i think it is a masterpiece! The reason i gave it a 10 out of 10 is because of the same reasons 
 i think it is a masterpiece and because the difficulty is just right, which is because the game 
 is not too long or too short, and it is not too hard but it is challenging. Also because its story 
 is better than any other video game's story, and the game play is awesome with not just running 
 and gunning but just the right amount of action, and also in Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway you 
 can dig in behind cover and the cover is also destructible. Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway goes 
 back to Baker's perspective. In Brothers in Arms: Hell's highway you also command your own squad 
 and the enemies have suppression meters above their heads which shows whether the enemy is firing 
 and it is unsafe, or if it is safe and the enemy is suppressed. When the meter is red, the enemy 
 is firing and it is not safe, and when the meter is gray the enemy is suppressed and it is safe. 
 The action camera when you get a great kill shot is awesome as it zooms in and shows the enemy 
 getting hit! The multi-player is also fun, it is not up to Call of Duty standards but you can still 
 have fun playing it and the campaign/story mode is above any of the Call of Duty standards and 
 any other video game's standards! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms is a unique experience compared to medal of honour or call of duty with a gritty 
 and brutal take on world war 2 and while that worked in the previous two Hells Highway uses that 
 same formula with extremely minor improvements.
  
  Gameplay: Hell's Highway is essentially a tactical shooter with you taking cover, ordering your 
 squadmates around and thinking about how to tackle the situation, im not saying thats a bad thing 
 in fact i usually love games like this but the problem is that the cover system is pretty much 
 useless because of the awkward controls so you end up getting yourself killed when you think why 
 isnt the cover button A instead or the left bumper? The story starts out well continuing after 
 the previous two games with both Matt Baker and Joe Hartstock but even this is flawed with Joe 
 being extremely different to who he was in earned in blood. The story in one word is lackluster 
 with some good cutscenes but generally theres nothing really to it, its just not as epic as it 
 should have been because it really could've been a really great game, there are other stupid flaws 
 for example a game that focuses on "realism" has you squadmates downed when shot writhing in agony 
 and then when the fire fights over they get back up, no healing animation and no medic they just 
 stand back up. Firefights while they can be intense last way too long and after a while you just 
 give up and get bored and put something else in the tray.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is solid but guns sound really dumb like the tommy gun whilst the thompson 
 which is just the same gun without a box mag sounds different, go figure.
  
  Graphics: This is all over the scale with some good looking guns and characters but all the main 
 ones look like they have had mud shoved in their face, don't believe me? look at the corporal and 
 you'll see what i mean.
  
  Multiplayer: I didn't play this becasue i felt that it couldnt even redeem this game if it tried.
 
  
  Conclusion: Brothers in Arms is yet another example of awesome yet unrealised potential making 
 you wonder why you even thoguht this game looked good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubaloth
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Rented this game. I had never played a brothers in arms game (Not sure why, maybe bad reviews on 
 the older ones) . 
  
  The basic game is there. But confusing story, glitches in the game just make it frustrating. 
 
  
  I'm trying to catch up to a tank to blow it up. The tank stops, I run into it, and guess who dies. 
 Me for running into a tank. 
  
  Not only that the tank killed its own AI team members a couple of times. 
  
  next I'm trying 
 to retreat back to where my group is at. I walk off the edge to "Dig in" and take cover but for 
 some reason I didn't follow off the edge. I'm trying to move around and I'm stuck. I look down 
 and I'm on top of one of my soldiers and can't move and the get killed. 
  
  The grenade throwing is not that great. Your better off getting your team member close enough and 
 have them throw a grenade. 
  
  Rent is okay, took about a week (I couldn't play it very long because I would get frustrated and 
 go back to Call of Duty) . 
  
  I also wish I could have skipped some of the dialog screens, You can tell they try to center it 
 around some story, but after it bouncing around so much I lost track of what was really going on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 10:57 pm PT
Review:  (Review Based on Demo)
  
  Ubisoft still havented filled in the reserved title of 'BIA 3' but Hells Highway still offers alot 
 eye candy and brutal gameplay.
  
  You play as Captain Baker, a war torn soldier with his top priorities of keeping all his teamates 
 alive at all costs. During the battle of "Operation Market Garden" the depression of war takes 
 hold, and even the strongest soldiers can barely cope.
  
  Ubisoft isn't as reowned as other developers for the brutal factor in games but there is no doubt 
 that Hells Highway is one sick puppy. Your going to have fun guessing which limbs belong to each 
 corpses after an arm tearing grenade explosion. To add on even more gore, when you execute a clean 
 headshot the camera zooms in and captures the shot with a slow mo' sequence. Same goes for grenades, 
 as you watch with a dropped jaw and dribble poring out of your mouth you can watch there body be 
 stripped of it's limbs in the most brutal fashion. 
  
  Gameplay is sadly not at it's best though. The "dig in" cover system is used with a tap of the 
 right bumber, and, as seen in the GRAW and Vegas franchises, is poor. The top few inches of your 
 head is still exposed in low cover such as concrete ledges and old cars. BIAHH still features the 
 Iron site feature allowing you to shoot with more realistic precision rather then relying on the 
 cross hairs that are shown when firing from the hip. though the fact that your soldiers automatically 
 respawn at a following checkpoint after they die ruins the mood of "Life Is Precious" which seems 
 to be trademarked in this game.
  
  The Graphics this new Brothers In Arms installment are top of the range. Blood effects look great, 
 texture is pale to show the sadness of the war, and facial features are sensational. 
  
  All in all, Brothers In Arms Hells Highway offers you all the best next - gen graphics but fails 
 to bring you intense gameplay and key elements that would of made this game into a true masterpiece. 
 Better luck next time Ubisoft/Gearbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docwoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  There certainly hasn't been a shortage of World War II first-person shooters on the market. The 
 Call of Duty and Medal of Honor games are considered by many to be the "best-in-class" of the genre, 
 but neither show the emotional side of war that the Brothers in Arms games portray in dramatic 
 fashion. The latest in the series, Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway, is no exception.
  
  I suspect many gamers have grown tired of World War II shooters (as exemplified by the general 
 feedback on the recently released Call of Duty: World at War) . However, if you've never played 
 a BIA game, don't write this off as another simplistic military shooter. Like the other games in 
 the series, BIA: HH gives you a small squad of lifelike soldiers to command. Although I felt that 
 the friendly AI in the earlier BIA games was a bit smarter, my squad still behaved very realistically 
 in battle. When a solid command is issued, they execute the order with deadly precision. But if 
 a command seems suicidal or you're slow in issuing any orders at all, the team will actually come 
 down on you and almost question your leadership skills. By the middle fo the game, I found myself 
 listening to their opinions and almost taking it to heart (although their chatter will become pretty 
 repetitive by the end of the game) . Few games encourage this level of interaction with your AI 
 controlled teammates. If even ONE of your teammates is killed in battle, you will be tempted to 
 restart the mission from the beginning just to save his life! Thankfully, downed teammates are 
 revived at each checkpoint you reach.
  
  The sound in the game is also quite amazing. If you play with a good surround sound system, you'll 
 feel like you're in a scene of Saving Private Ryan as bullets whiz by your ears and shells explode 
 around you. The outstanding sound design in BIA: HH help make the firefights some of the most memorable 
 in gaming!
  
  If the COD and MOH games are like the "big budget action movies" of WWII shooters, then BIA: HH 
 can almost be considered the award-winning documentary. It offers a harsh look at the "ugly" side 
 of war and provides a feeling of realism that you'd be hard-pressed to find in other first-person 
 shooters. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhyx0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  THis Brothers in arms game was suprisingly good. I mean suprisingly good because as i have played 
 the first installment of the game : road to hill 30, and it left me craving for more you really 
 can get your self inside the game clinging 2 the characters for example i was shattered in the 
 first one where allen and garnett dieed (or was it just one of them: P) . But appart from that the 
 storyline wasnt strong as it usuallly is these days in WWII army games.
  
  The one thing though in this game i thouroughly enjoyed is that the style of gameplay as in pin 
 em down then flank em, and commanding your crew wether it includes tanks or riflemen. 
  
  SO in conclusion this game is terrific 4 you if u like strategised gun-play and manouvering commands 
 plus in general WWII gritty storylines kicking Krauts Asses............ But if you are the total 
 oppisite of that like if you prefer halo more how you have more freedom roaming around firing guns 
 so be it you may like it if your willing 2 change you style and let this game sweep you of your 
 feet so yeh cya pplz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most WWII games, where its all run and gun, kill every person who screams 'Sheize!' and 
 well, that pretty much sums it all up, the Brothers in Arms games have always been about finding, 
 fixing, flanking and finishing and it still holds well in this latest addition.
  
  Hell's Highway continues the story of Matt Baker, the troubled sergeant from the first game and 
 partly in the second game as he leads his squad through the darkest moment in WWII called Operation 
 Market Garden which would become the last major victory for the Nazis. The story tackles almost 
 everything in a war movie, the brotherhood, the sacrifice and most of all, the horrors and war 
 and here they don't hold back, although I kinda thought the core story centered around the infamous 
 'Death Pistol' a little off, the background stuff of the narrative is what still keeps me playing 
 the game.
  
  The cinematics are awesome, despite a few texture popping issues, they're well done and feel like 
 you're actually playing an episode of Band of Brothers and the dialogue is well written, returning 
 actors such as Troy Baker reprises his roll as Baker while Dale Dye voices the real life Commander 
 Robert Sink. Unlike the Medal of Honor and Call of Duty series, where they portray their main characters 
 as these uber-macho soldiers who can eat bullets and feel no emotions, the soldiers of Hell's Highway 
 are every bit human and they don't sugar coat anything in this game's story and it pays off in 
 the end. They also added a nicely welcomed cover system and now hiding behind wooden fences are 
 a big no-no, there's also an action cam where if make a kill shot on the first try, it'll zoom 
 in and go slo-mo, very entertaining when you use grenades. Plus they added a few vehicle missions, 
 that may feel tacked on, but are fun to play and fitting for the story.
  
  Audio is amazing, like you're actually in the war and the battle audio is what help sets the mood, 
 from the quiet, serene sounds in the first leve, to the haunting ambience of the Hell's Highway 
 level. The music is well done and the piece played during the starting menu feels like something 
 from Saving Private Ryan, the weapons sound realistic little things like shell casing dropping 
 to stepping in water feels real, though your squadmates tend to make comments during big fire fights 
 that are a little out of place. The game looks beautiful, especially during the cinematics, it 
 keeps in tone of the grainy style used in Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers while adding 
 some color, the lighting is amazing, but I think the Einhoven after being bombed and Hell's Highway 
 levels really show off the game's graphics, though I could be wrong
  
  Despite the pluses, the story's big resolution in the end is a little disappointing and the multiplayer 
 feels unfinished, like they forget to add the Skirmish mode and Co-Op as well, plus as mentioned, 
 the texture popping and a few minor problems that, otherwise, don't really bog this game down.
 
  
  Some maybe mixed about another WWII game, but Brothers in Arms does it the way it should've always 
 been done, so if you want more slower pace for your shooter, than Hell's Highway is your ticket. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The game was an exciting new twist in gameplay for me. I had not played the first two games of 
 the series, but I knew with this one I had to get it. The style of first person shooter meets 3rd 
 person is something new and refreshing also, the squad command aspect also brings fresh and new 
 air to the table for gaming. It had its ups and downs, for instance slow frame-rates at some points, 
 and game to controller reactions, you would hit A or whatever to get yourself situated against 
 a wall and it wouldn't perform it. The action camara was also new, say you get a headshot, it will 
 zoom in and show the great gorieness. I believe if they make another game they will correct all 
 the things that were flawed in this one, the story line was so good, I just wanted to know more 
 in depth about each character, the game does do justice for BIA first timers but to me I just wanted 
 to know more. All in all its a great pick, but not really sure if it has amazing re-play value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macheteman99
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is another WW II game that is just falling into the same line as all the others. this 
 game does have it's unique features such as squad command, you tell your squad where to go and 
 that's a pretty nice feature. Great graphics and visual effects that really make it come to life. 
 the sound of the weapons and vehicles are well done as well. the only reason this game get's knocked 
 off 2.0 is just because it is the same as all of the other WW II shooters out there, there is not 
 many things special about this. it's a nice way to wind down and kill some nazis however, so if 
 you love to do that, then get it. but if you don't wanna play another ran down theme of shooters, 
 don't get this, unless you have never played another WW II game. this game is not unique but is 
 still very fun. i would not call this a must have but i would say half of the people out there 
 have games just like this. but if u wanna buy your first WW II game get this one then, or COD 5, 
 either one is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_FOXtrot_X
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a game you should play for it's game play not its story. If you have played the other brothers 
 in arms games it doesn't really matter because the story isn't very good anyway. If it's hard for 
 you to use just a little bit of strategy it might be a bit hard for you to play this game. During 
 the story you do have to fight without your squad for a little bit which is a bit wierd because 
 the game is called Brothers in Arms but anything can happen in the field of battle. The story itself 
 is weak and could have used more work. The gameplay can be anoying because the enemy is always 
 behind cover and you will have to work to get the kill which is why this isn't a just run out and 
 shoot down the enemy. If you are into that this is not the game for you. As I said before this 
 game does need work but it's still a good game to rent if you don't feel like paying about $60 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Well I'll just start out with the biggest problem I had with the game... the story. I loved every 
 aspect of this game and even got over the graphic glitches (loading) . But at times I found it hard 
 to fully be brought into the game 100% simply because alot of the time the game keeps referring 
 to things from the first game.
  
  And while I played that game its been years now and alot has gone on since then and I can't remember 
 anything from then. So I often pulled back out of the game when I started to get lost in the story. 
 Aside from that this game is amazing. It goes to show WW2 isn't a dead genre when done right.
 
  
  The graphics were very impressive, especially the damage models, more so in slo mo! You always 
 feel like you in some real place and never know whats going to happen unlike most games where the 
 graphics are all focused on obvious points of interest. 
  
  The audio and music was really well done too. It pulls you in all the time and to me anyways, makes 
 me feel like I in a war movie. It didn't feel like listening and watching some puppet like figures 
 rattle on about some objective or story.
  
  The gameplay once again is done well. The AI this time around is much better and your team isn't 
 as dumb as before. You can if you choose to be gung-ho but that won't have good results all the 
 time. The only real problem with the gameplay is the nade throwing system. Often you can't tell 
 where you are throwing it or more often even if its lined up you end up bouncing it off of the 
 window your at and blowing yourself up.
  
  Online wasn't all that exciting to me. Nothing special. But it was still fun enough to play for 
 a little bit inside.
  
  Sadly though once all is said and done theres nothing more to do in the game. You can go back through 
 and try things diffrent, maybe search for hidden "Killroys". But thats about it. Best as a rental.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms Hells Highway is a great game that sadly, can get old after playing for a while.
 
  
  In Brothers In Arms HH you play as Sgt. Baker, leader of the 101st airborne division. The series 
 follows a timeline of the war, and this time you will be in Holland with the 101st in order to 
 open a highway to make Operation Market Garden a success. Along the way you will get emotional 
 as the story itself, especially the relationships between the soldiers is emotionally dramatic. 
 The story comes off tremendously because of this, and the story is the best part of the game and 
 one of the reasons for a higher score. The cutscenes are tremendous as well, even though there 
 are a few graphical glitches and pop-ins during them. 
  
  The gameplay in Brothers In Arms HH feels refreshing at first, but will grow old fairly quickly. 
 The majority of the game is taking position behind cover and continuously popping out of cover 
 to get one or two shots off before having to duck back into cover due to low health. The cover 
 shooting works and rewards those players who can be pinpoint accurate, but it is a stark contrast 
 to many WWII games such as call of duty. The game feels more like a Rainbow Six rather than a WWII 
 game, and the pop out of cover shooting will get boring no doubt. The game tries to keep it fresh 
 by showing cinematic kills when you fire a headshot or blow up a few nazis with a well placed grenade. 
 
  
  The weapons in the game are good, but some of them feel weak. I found myself using the M1 Garrand 
 and other guns that were not automatic. This allows for better accuracy since you will be shooting 
 from a distance most of the time. The machine guns work well in close combat, but are pretty useless 
 when shooting from medium range. As a note the German guns are a lot better than the American guns, 
 so I was picking those up off nazis and using them the most. 
  
  The graphics in BRI HH are just slightly above average, with as a mentioned earlier numerous pop 
 ins and little technical glitches. These by no means take away from the game, but it does feel 
 a little unpolished. Considering the game was delayed a couple times, the developers could have 
 done a much better job. The sound effects in the game are pretty good, with all of the sounds being 
 accurate. 
  
  Brothers In Arms Campaign will run about 8 hours over the course of 10 missions. It only took a 
 couple days to get through, but the campaign was well put together. The online was ok, with rounds 
 lasting 5 mins. The only game mode is pretty much survival as there are no respawns. I only played 
 a few matches, but matches were easy to find.
  
  Overall Brothers In Arms HH gets an 8/10 for having a great story and somewhat satisfying headshot 
 gameplay. 
  
  Achievement Difficulty: 3/10 Easy 900+ points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguino522
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I love this game from the bullets flying to the calling of Corrions name. Brothers in arms hill 
 30 was good, Earned in blood was better, Hells Highway is AWESOME! The blood and gore isnt fake unlike 
 other games. The graphics are stunning. The sound and visuals Are awesome espically how the thompson 
 sounds................ ahhhh music to my ears...... The germans are fun to sniper with a pistol. None 
 of the missions are extremely fake or even close to fake (like always) The haunting of Kevins death 
 and the rest of the story is awesome but.....: WARNING WARNING SPOILER SPOILER WARNING  
 hartstock gets paralyzed and beans (Franky) dies i kinda got mad. I feel your pain corrion. Corrion 
 should have been  
 that colonel guy dies i felt bad ( That happens to me whenever someone dies or baker freaks out 
 and theres a cut scene) GIVE THE BOYS AT GEARBOX A ROUND OF APPLAUSE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! By the 
 way you guys scared me when you show the vison of kevin screaming "TAKE ME" in the grayeyard sniper 
 mission after the colonel guy dies. Lets all remeber those who died in Operation market garden 
 and WW2 and any other war the those brave men fought for our country. You should say thankyou if 
 you see a solider or veteran walking on the sidewalk or anywhere. Say thankyou for what they've 
 done for our country. Thankyou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longo2guns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  The game is one of the best games in the series the game starts off as you playing as Matthew Baker 
 your a squad leader in the middle of operation market garden wich is one of the largest and smoothiest 
 landings for the army. The likes about this game are the great unreal engien graphices in the game, 
 the voice acting and the amazing sound effect. I bet by the end of the game you would know every 
 sound of a weapon by heart ! the game has its downs the downs are the lack in the backround in 
 the cutseens and the squad combat your men will run in the open and get eachover shot. This is 
 still a great game and is still the best in the series this game is worth the buy ! the game is 
 amazing when it comes to the brother hood of the men that serve in a hell based war. this game 
 wants you to awalys remember the men and women that serve in iraq and in all the wars . this game 
 remeinds me of the HBO mini-series BAND OF BROTHERS wich was a series that was based upon a squad 
 of paratroppers and there story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms is just another shooter added to the played out WW2 mix. The games maker tries 
 to make a game that is realistic to the actual events. Problem here is this is the entertainment 
 biz and this game after about an hour of playing is just .... rather dull. I was excited when I 
 watched the preview videos of this game but believe me this game falls significantly short. IF 
 you are looking for another shooter to play, then go ahead give this one a shot. But if your in 
 the market for a COD4 or a GOW2 then by means stay away. 
  
  
  The good:
  
  Open space environment allows for some strategy to be implemented.
  
  Historical context is 
 great. 
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  controls are wierd and could be better. 
  
  Lack of weaponry sucks
  
  Graphics, especially faces arent good, and sound isnt anything to 
 get excited about either. 
  
  Game fails to really make the Axis the enemy
  
  you basically just shoot everyone you see.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSTHEAT1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Quick review is, this game is a mechanical mess! Squad tactics are great, when you can use them. 
 If something like a tree is in your line of sight, you cant tell your guys to fire on the 3 guys 
 hiding behind the bush 30 feet behind!! I mean, if I can't tell my guys to fire on something more 
 than 50 yards away with ANYTHING, not just a bazooka or SR, then thats just awful.
  Aim w/anything but a SR in this game and it's kinda like trying to kill an elephant with a pea 
 shooter, meaning you KNOW you hit him but he'll probably need a couple of hundred hits before he 
 dies.
  Grenades are another mess. You can't see the reticule unless you set it sooo close to yourself 
 that you'll throw it in your own underwear! And the enemy knows where the grenades are going before 
 you even THINK about throwing them.
  Bottom line- Buy Battlefield: Bad Co. you will NOT be disapointed. Or feel frustrated like this 
 chinese fire drill will make you feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesh89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  In a time when ww2 shooters are released almost monthly, most struggle in the shadow of the sales 
 juggernaut that is the call of duty series. I myself hold reservations for the brothers in arms 
 series. 
  
  This game is an immersible and highly emotional experience that I can only akin to the television 
 series "band of brothers". It holds many parallels in the fact that it arcs ingenious thought out 
 combat situations with a wondrously deep script that only encompasses the character you play as. 
 You take the role of Matt Baker and his company of soldiers. 
  
  Each of the soldiers have a name and a face and are integral to the main story. And as this begins 
 to progress you begin to genuinely feel for the characters.
  
  Brothers in arms game mechanics follow quite closely to rainbow six Vegas, just with the speed 
 turned down. This game is slow, there's no way about it. But I like that. Squad tactics are instrumental 
 to the game. And this is where "brothers in arms" does begin to fall a little short. With the emotional 
 and highly charged storyline running through the game I thought it a contradiction for one or more 
 of your team members to die they just re-spawn when you hit a checkpoint in the level. Not a major 
 qualm but a niggle I thought took away the story lines meaning of how important life is. 
  
  Scenery sometimes looks a little last gen and sometimes so do the characters. The game is also 
 rather short and the ambiguous ending is a bit of a downer. But all in all brothers in arms is 
 a solid shooter with something not many have. This game has soul and with it my respect to a developer 
 who took time to work on a single player and forgot about the online multiplayer. Which in my opinion 
 is a shambles, but this doesn't matter. I didn't buy it for the multiplayer. 
  
  With its slight niggles and problems If you are looking for a game that holds a single player campaign 
 over online multiplayer I genuinely recommend brothers in arms even with its slight niggles and 
 problems. It's a beautiful experience that I believe to be the best ww2 shooter I have played. 
 
  
  It's almost dumb to call it a ww2 shooter it's so much more. It's a deep thoughtful tactical squad 
 based battle game with a lot of soul thrown in for good measure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that I picked up BIA purely on a whim. It was on sale on Black Friday for only 
 $20 and I thought it was worth the gamble though my previous experience had only been with pure 
 FPS games. I really didn't know how I'd react to the strategy elements in this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - While most FPS have you running through combat guns ablazing and mowing down Nazi's 
 like a shooting gallery, BIA focuses on actual squad tactics and attempts to bring a sense of realism. 
 When encountering an enemy, it is necessary to fix them in place with suppressing fire, and then 
 flanking them from their exposed side for the easy kill. The game calls this approach the four 
 F's which stands for fire, fix, flank, and finish. While this style continues through the game 
 it never gets boring as you are taken through a very diverse assortment of city and country settings. 
 In some ways I was reminded of the Rainbow Six: Vegas games in that your character will be in FPS 
 mode when walking but will shift to a 3rd person mode when you get behind cover. It also uses the 
 health-regenerating system. The enemy AI is quite competent and will be using the same tactics 
 as well. Your squadmates for the most part are capable though occasionally will make pathfinding 
 mistakes and put themselves unnecessarily in the line of fire, though thankfully this doesn't happen 
 too often. Throughout the game you'll be given command over various types of teams, including bazooka 
 squads, base of fire teams, assault squads and machine gun squads. Every team is very useful in 
 different situations, and it's up to you to figure out how to best use each team to their potential. 
 Issuing commands is very intuitive and easy to learn. Controls for your player also work well. 
 There are a few times when you'll be on your own and go into a traditional FPS mode, and while 
 these moments worked fine I was always wanting to just get back to squad command, which was much 
 more interesting.
  
  GRAPHICS ( 8 ) - Aside from a few graphical glitches, BIA features excellent presentation all around. 
 The graphics are gritty and realistic, with pretty detailed textures and good animation. There 
 are also great cinematic shots that slows time down and zooms in whenever you blow up two or more 
 Germans or make a sweet headshot, similar to Fallout 3. The destructible environments, moving foliage 
 and rain effects give a great sense of realism.
  
  SOUND (9) - On the audio front BIA is particularly sharp. In everything from the quiet moments 
 to the deafening crashing of mortar fire, BIA takes full advantage of your sound system. Voice 
 acting is outstanding, which is very important considering how important the story and characters 
 relationships are in this game. During firefights each individual weapon is distinctive, from the 
 crack of a rifle to the heavy machine guns.
  
  VALUE ( 8 ) - I'm going to estimate this game took me somewhere between 12 to 15 hours to complete 
 on medium mode. Naturally there is the option to go back and play on the harder difficulty, which 
 not only increases the chances of your character dieing but also takes away some of the helpful 
 icons that let you know when the enemy is suppressed, for example. People interested in achievements 
 might spend extra time hunting for both Recon and Kilroy spots. Finding Recon areas actually is 
 a nice touch in that it opens up extra information on the actual events that happened during this 
 battle. MP is available, and while I haven't tried it I have read from numerous reviews that it's 
 pretty much forgettable. Overall this is not a game you'd want to get if you're mainly interested 
 in MP.
  
  SUMMARY (8.5) - BIA not only rises above the Call of Duty's and Medal of Honor's in its gameplay 
 but in its story as well. Throughout the game you'll be playing as Sergeant Matt Baker, and as 
 the game goes on you'll see the psychological effect war has on him as he's continually haunted 
 by the deaths of soldiers under his command, to the point that some start to question his sanity. 
 The interaction between the squad members is excellent and certainly the best I've seen in a shooter. 
 The story is influenced by the previous games which sometimes caused a bit of confusion since I 
 had no background knowledge of the other two titles, though the game tries hard to shed some light 
 on the events that happened before. Overall I'd say that if you've enjoyed WWII shooters in the 
 past but may have grown tired of them since COD3, this game may perk your interest. The combination 
 of an intense story and fun squad command makes for a very worthwhile experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  Hell's Highway is a bit of a difficult game to review; there isn't much really wrong with it, but 
 there isn't much to be overjoyed about, either. The biggest problem with this seems to be the fact 
 that the game is seemingly flat throughout the game, there's no high points in it at all. There 
 wasn't a single "phew, got past that part" kind of scene. All of'em were nice and all that, but 
 it was just basically about wearing down the opponent with the few guys you have with you.
  
  I played the first BiA on PC and have to say that the game mechanic hasn't changed one bit. 
 You can be a total killer now with your rifle, though, but that's about it for the changes I can 
 spot. You still order some different teams (max. three of'em) to either advance or attack/fire 
 suppressive fire on a target. And... uh, that's about it really. You go through nice looking enviroments 
 with nice looking effects (the ragdoll physics with explosions are especially nice, albeit nothing 
 we haven't seen before) , but since it lacks a total thriller, all you do is wade through different 
 sceneries doing the same thing over and over. And that same thing you do over and over is in the 
 pattern of ordering a team to supress a target (s) , then either you or the team advances closer, 
 starts to supress, other team or you moves closer, supress... rinse and repeat. Or, like I did, 
 you end up trying and shooting headshots as many as you can (and since you can, why wouldn't you) .
 
  
  The graphics and sound effects are nice and decent, respectfully. I suppose you cannot have any 
 unseen flair in a WW2 game without making it look ridiculous, so I'd say the graphics at least 
 work well. The sounds were good, but I have a slight memory that they could have been louder.
 
  All in all, it all looks and sounds nice and there's no real complaints about those.
  
  A. I is... well, bad. Or guess I should say relatively bad, since it kind of works, sometimes. Your 
 teammates are pretty good at finding cover when told to and generally they work ok, but the few 
 times you end up rolling your eyes when the guys just figured it could be better to cut the run 
 shorter from in front of a tank or machinegun, instead of going to me around the house like I asked 
 them to. There was couple of those places where the A. I chose the much more dangerous route, instead 
 of the route a normal person would have. But if you remember that it's an A. I and not a normal 
 person and make'em dash in small sprints, it'll work fine.
  The enemy A. I isn't much better. Many times I was able to sneak&run up to the teams behind sandbags 
 and shoot'em on their sides. Enemies change their positions sometimes, but that would appear to 
 be pre-programmed rather than the real A. I. All in all, A. I is ok, but nothing spectacular.
  
  There's a story again that goes through the whole game. Sadly it doesn't seem to have much 
 to do with the actual action that's going on, which kind of alienates the story from the actual 
 happenings in the game.
  However, the story is relatively good for an action game, so it doesn't seem all that out of place. 
 It's just that, there's a story cutscene, then there's action, then story, action, story, action... and 
 sometimes they don't have anything to do with eachother. Almost like you'd be watching a movie 
 and seeing small parts of a TV-series on commercial breaks. Not bad, but hardly top notch, either.
 
  
  In the end of the day, Brothers in Arms : Hell's Highway has great production values; everything 
 looks fine and polished, cutscenes look great, there's a relatively good story in the game and 
 so on. But after the first episode, you've pretty much seen all the game has to offer, since there 
 won't be new weapons naturally (or well, if you consider the Stg-44 that drops off of germans sometimes 
 as "new") and besides a few tank and solo episodes, there isn't any variety nor highpoints.
  Had BiA had a scene resembling Normandy or Stalingrad scenes in action from Medal of Honor/Call 
 of Duty types of games, it would've gotten higher points from me. But now, it's somewhat bland 
 and still worth playing through. Go figure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryir554
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  BIA: Hells Highway is the third game in the BIA series and continues the story of SGT. Matt Baker 
 and his squad of paratroopers. If you havent played the previous two games in the series, I recommend 
 that you do in order to understand the story which is one of the games high points.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, having to make stratigic decisions is a blast and the game is worth 
 more then one play through
  
  The graphics are quite good as well, even though as with every game there are some issues to be 
 had.
  
  Overall this is a very good game and I recommend it for any fan of the tactical, WWII or shooter 
 genre. The game is just the right length and has many surprises along the way, leaving a cliffhanger 
 at the end of the story that will leave you wanting more. Score.....................
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boj0001
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty, Medal of Honor, and Brothers In Arms. War shooters have never really been my cup 
 of tea. But then I took a risk and bought BIA-HH. And whow, it amazed me with such an amersive 
 story, which makes itself like a TV drama show. The graphics are top notch, the voice acting is 
 solid, and the gameplay is tense and adictive. The only things that let this title down, was it's 
 short single player campaign and miserable online modes. You don't have to play the other titles 
 to understand the story, as you will be filled with information to what happened. The major highlights 
 of this game include hiding away from tanks and other heavy artillery. The focus on realism is 
 spot on. Call of Duty, eat your heart out. I can't wait for the sequel, but Im certain we wont 
 be seeing it for a few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! From the moment I put it in, I have been glued to the game. It is hard for 
 me to put down. From the cover system (which call of duty lacks) to the squad control system, the 
 game is just amazing. The cut scenes are very cool and I feel like I am playing a story rather 
 than just playing a game. The enemy and friendly AI are really good and do act like I am playing 
 with some friends against some other guys. The graphics are the best. The graphics themselves are 
 much better than Call of Duty for those who are comparing the two. But gameplay alone this game 
 knocked me out. I originally wasn't getting the game and I do enjoy WWII shooters. It is a great 
 period to do a shooter. There is a lot to cover. But this weekend Gamestop had a special on Black 
 Friday. The game was $19.99 for 3 days. I bought it and I am glad I did. It is by far one of the 
 best games I have played this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8732_YoungJeezy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  I had a lot going for this gaming but some how it was kind of disappointing to me. The campaign 
 was fine, it's just the multiplayer..... The campaign is pretty fun, especially when you start 
 getting a bazooka team and watch Nazi's fly in the air and see 88's blow up to pieces. There are 
 also some tank missions witch are pretty fun, but get kinda old after a while. The voice acting 
 is great in this game, you feel like a real solider and you are there at the front lines. The sound 
 in this game is amazing, All the weapons sound so real it's just amazing. Also, another thing I 
 loved about the campaign was the action camera. When you get an amazing head shot or blow someone 
 up you get a slow motion of the action and can see body parts flying everywhere or just the head 
 exploding. Oh, one more thing about the campaign, it's recommend you play the previous brothers 
 in arms games or your going to be confused on whats going on in the story.
  
  Well, the muliplayer is fine, just kinda get boring because there is only one game to play. It's 
 kind of like capture the flag, but when you die you don't re spawn. You can choose special classes 
 like a sniper, mg, or a bazooka or you can just use the regular weapons like the m1 grand or the 
 mp44. The online play is kinda of slow and lags a lot but it's still fun for (well for me it is) , 
 just gets old because that is the only type of game on the online part of this game. 
  
  I got this game at a black Friday sale for only $20 and I would say it's still worth the $60 price, 
 8.5/10 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -JediPaul-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Another great sequel to the Brothers in Arms franchise! Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is another 
 breakthrough in revolutionary graphics! Brothers in Arms is not just like any another FPS game 
 like you just run around and kill somebody, it takes skill and strategy to take down your enemies! 
 It has also a good blend of sound effects, the enviroment sounds, the character's dialouges, and 
 the intense battle effects!
  
  Aside from that, one of the most anticipated in Brothers in Arms series is it's storyline! It shows 
 the value of friendship, unity, and respect for others. It's like a novel (or more of a novel) 
 made into a game!
  
  In addition to it's gameplay, Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway added the Third Person camera just 
 like in Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 to make it more exciting, just like a true soldier, you will have 
 to "dig in" and find cover and return fire to the enemies. All of this impressive production makes 
 Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway and amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  I didn't really enjoy this game, and here's my reasoning:
  
  1. I don't feel that the graphics are up to the standards of other simular FPS titles on the 360. 
 I found them drab, poorly animated, jaggy, and poorly detailed with little to no use of lighting 
 or shadowing, and pretty much eveyone looked the same. 
  
  2. I felt the controls were annoying, unresponsive, poorly set up, and wonky. 
  
  3. The sound 
 quality was poor, and the music was (or lack there of) was too "used" in other games of the genre 
 making it feel like there was little epic about the game. 
  
  4. Voice acting was poor and it seems like everyone had the same voice in the game, even the Germans. 
 
  
  5. The story has been done over and over again.
  
  So unless if you are a true fan of the genre then I can recommend this game. But frankly I was 
 so annoyed by it, I didn't even complete it. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I loved the original brothers in arms games on ps2, so i was pretty excited when hell's highway 
 was announced.
  Having played through the ( pleasingly lengthy ) campaign, i'm in two minds as to whether the game 
 deserved my cash..
  On the one hand, you can see that Gearbox really put effort into this game.
  The actual gameplay 
 is silky smooth, the graphics are crisp although jaggy, and the strategy is good fun, with the 
 AI being responsive, thank god, and the feeling you get when you pull off a successful pincer move 
 is just fantastic.
  
  So, why two minds?
  
  The real decisive factor in my veiled disapointment with the game is the repetitiveness.
  It 
 seemed like Holland was fields and factorys, which maybe it was, but i was bored of the greens 
 and browns within the first 3 levels.
  If the actual game wasn't so great i would of taken it back then and there.
  At the end of the 
 game, i didnt know whether the game had satisfyed me or not.
  Sure, the game was fun to play through and i could appreciate the effort the dev team made with 
 the story and the characters, but i couldn't shake the feeling that they had chucked the levels 
 and ( most ) of the textures together in a day.
  Still, at the end of the day its a very good shooter, essential if you liked the other brothers 
 in arms, just dont expect to be blown away.
  
  +
  
  Immersive story
  Brilliant characters
  Silky smooth gameplay
  Strategy is realistic whilst still being fun
 
  
  -
  
  Repetitive
  Enviroments, textures and enemys are samey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferruginous
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was one of the many who waited for this game ever since it was announced. 
 I loved the "thinking man's game" theme behind this series and it introduced us to a World War 
 II game that although scripted and linear, the gameplay experience will be different each time. 
 Hell's Highway is game that you should at least rent.
  
  The game utilizes the Unreal engine and it shows. The levels look good, the gear looks authentic, 
 and you can see emotion on the characters' faces! There are some levels where you go inside houses 
 and warehouses, and the game doesn't look no different than an Original Xbox game. But Holland 
 is a treat worth seeing in visual form.
  
  You play the role of Matt Baker and are the sergeant of a squads. You order them around to flank 
 the enemy's position. The A. I. of your squadmakes isn't impressive, but they do the job. You control 
 the usual assaul and base of fire team that you controlled in the Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 
 30 and Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood. Hell's Highway (finally) allows you to order around a 
 portable machine gun crew, and a bazooka team. Both of these new teams can dish out a world of 
 hurt to the Nazis so use them whenever possible.
  
  This game seems to have stolen Rainbow Six: Vegas's cover system, and you will be using the "dig-in" 
 button a lot. This works in this game, but there will be times will it seems as if you are completely 
 open to enemy fire, but because you digged in, you won't get hurt (unless they flank you from the 
 side) . Just remember, that be aware whether you are digged in or not during frantic gunfights, 
 because you will think you are free to run around when in fact, you are still "sticking to the 
 wall."
  
  The game takes place during Operation Market Garden which happened in September 1944. The story 
 will explain the historical aspects behind this daring military invasion and will do so in some 
 hilarious cutscenes. The story is interesting, but I shouldn't play a game because grown men think 
 a handgun is the bearer of bad luck.
  
  After landing in Holland, you will be fighting Germans in the open fields, and then will be in 
 urban firefights. Get ready for these! Enemies will take cover as you do, but don't forget that 
 this game (again finally) will let you destroy cover. Don't be shy to toss grenades at the Nazis 
 to de-limb them. Your machine gun crew are good at tearing through wooden fences and the like, 
 and if your on a mission where your bazooka team tags along, use them to take out machine gun nests 
 behind sandbags, nests in windows, and nests in a towers.
  
  The game uses the indicator system that shows you whether enemies are supressed or unsupressed. 
 It works in the same fashion as the previous games with red meaning unsupressed and grey means 
 it is okay to move your men around to outflank them.
  
  The multiplayer is garbage. There is no other word to describe it. The graphics are terrible. It 
 looks like a Playstation 2 game and doesn't resemble the single player's graphics at all. 
  
  I don't recommend buying Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway. I regret purchasing it on day and 
 date it came out. It doesn't have any replay value other than searching through missions to find 
 "Killroys". But doing so isn't fun, it is more like work. This game was a major disappointment for 
 me, but I hope the next one does take place in snow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: World War 2 related games have been milked almost dry for the past several years and 
 few of the titles released have covered the action or the tales of the soldiers in the field like 
 Gearbox's Brothers in Arms series. In Brothers in arms: Hells Highway once again following the 
 footsteps and drawing from the experiences of the actual 502nd Parachute Infantry, 101st Airborne 
 Division. This time the game takes you away from fighting in the fields of France into some of 
 World War II's most colossal failures for the allies. The story revolves around Operation Market 
 Garden, and the whole plan is to capture a highway through Holland and punching through enemy lines 
 into the heart of Germany. So pretty much it's set against this backdrop of the war, telling the 
 tale of Staff Sergeant Matt Baker and his squad as they try to survive the hazards of Holland that 
 are constantly thrown their way. Much of the story is reflecting on past events or thoughs and 
 stresses of battle or the battle ahead which you really get to know and get emotionally connected 
 with the characters. If you've seen HBO's Band of Brothers, Hell's Highway feels like a lost episode 
 of the show, and has the sense of scale and cinematic grandness that you'd expect from Hollywood. 
 As far as the standard gameplay mechanics are concerned, Hell's Highway plays out exactly like 
 the previous titles in the game, so veterans of the series will have no problem getting in to the 
 game quickly. There is also a fun multiplayer part of the game which is great for playing against 
 a friend but online you can't really find that many people playing this game for some reason which 
 is sad because the multiplay is always fun.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are not pretty good and everything is very detailed and colorful but at times 
 when you are talking to your men there emotions don't show up right away. There is a new feature 
 called the "action-demo", this is a slow-mo type of thing when you shoot a guy in the head and 
 there is blood everywhere, when you hit something with a rocket or something along that line that 
 is grand.
  
  Sound: I have to say that the sound is really good in this game. Everything from the voice acting 
 to the gun fire is really good quality and sound the way it should sound. The sound track is quite 
 good too and sounds like a opening scene of Band Of Brothers. 
  
  Value: The only thing I did not like was that sometimes you team is stupid when responding to commands 
 manuvering them to safety like when you tell them to fall back and go behind a wall, they would 
 jump over it to get behind it instead of staying low and going around. Also I found it hard to 
 aim at times due to constant movment of character for some reason. All in all this is a great tactical 
 shooter with a good multiplay segment which is fun to play with friends. This game is really worth 
 buy, playing and keeping. I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chappie48e
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I put off buying Gears of War 2 in order to get this game. What I love about the Brothers in Arms 
 game series is the really in depth look at what it was actually like to fight in the European theater 
 during WW2. They go so far as to use actual after action reports to guide their levels. It adds 
 a gritty realism that other WW2 shooters just can't compete with.
  
  What was different about this game from the others (in the positive I believe) is the more expanded 
 story line and cut scenes. I think they really added another layer to the characters that has been 
 missing in the other games. I found myself really wanting to help my guys out and keep them alive. 
 Plus I'm always a sucker for a good story.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good. There were some wtf moments when one of your teams will jump over 
 the wall you're trying to tell them to hid behind, but for the most part it works really good and 
 blends into the whole experience. 
  
  As far as graphics and audio, it's outstanding. Some glitches at the beginning of cut scenes, but 
 other then that they were outstanding. 
  
  If you're a fan of WW2 shooters, then get this game. It's a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6StringShredder
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  The Brothers In Arms series is a very tasty series, which is all pretty historically correct, and 
 almost all the characters are based on real people. In the older BIA's games the combat was almost 
 too real for some. Shooting became a hassle due to the wind or the shaking arms from battle around 
 you. The graphics weren't the greatest either. 
  Now in Hells Highway the graphics are superb, they used the same program as gears of war and upgraded 
 it immensely. Now providing the same "dig in" button so you can grab some cover which will be vital 
 for you and your teams to survive the battles, but be careful because that cover could probably 
 be blown to bits after a while. Action is great a lot of times you will have to find away to flank 
 the enemy, suppressing the enemy with one team and personally take a team around to the back to 
 shut down machine guns, mortar crews, 88's Ect.. Some times when you place great shots with your 
 bazooka team or you hit some one with a tank or MG, limbs will go flying through the air in slow 
 motion as your camera view zooms in on it. And in HH were you fire your weapon is where the bullet 
 goes, the wind and tiredness from a run is no longer a factor of altering were you shoot. Battles 
 get pretty heated, Germans storm over the hills as you tell your teams to grab cover. Your Assault 
 and Base of fire teams start to chop down Nazis from behind burnt cars, you take a place next to 
 your MG team and grab a dead crew's MG-42 and begin chopping down Germans. Legs, arms, and chunks 
 of skull fly over hay bails and blood splatters on walls as your other MG team starts filling the 
 air with led. The Germans keep coming over the hills in squads of 3-6. You drop down to reload 
 your MG-42, your MG team yells as the 50cal roars with anger. The German siege is soon over, but 
 the field is full of dead Nazis and body parts. You gather your men and move over the hill as you 
 spot a very large 20 man German squad coming in you direction. You place your men in tactical positions 
 and wait far them to enter the kill zone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rossco6
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  I found this version very similar to the previous version, but I guess that's the point of a sequel. 
 The grenade targeting circle was twitchy and a bit of a pain to see sometimes. The AI for your 
 guys still does dumb things and will run out of cover in a weird route to get to where you tell 
 them to go.
  
  The voice overs are also hard to hear at times.
  
  Weapons were great and the targeting is smoother than previous BoB. That makes it much easier to 
 take out targets at a distance.
  
  If you're a fan of the HBO series and the book, this is an intriguing take on the experience. A 
 lot of detail was spent on the emotional trauma of combat on men. You can almost feel the confusion 
 of Bakers character while he deals with the losses of his men through the campaign.
  
  Overall a fun experience and I look forward to the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I already expected for Hell's Highway to be a great game, as the two previous ones were exellent, 
 and my hype proved true. Hell's Highway is a great game that any fan of shooter games should get.
 
  
  The game has several strengths, but I think the strongest is the third-person camera. It's just 
 perfect-Matt and his weapon, no matter how long they are, never mysteriously go through the environment 
 that he is using for cover. The gamer also has good graphics, and the character's faces look clear 
 and realistic, although some work should be done on the character's uniforms and some of the environments. 
 Sound effects are also pretty good, but some of the weapons have some dulled sound effects. The 
 overall atmosphere of the game is like something you would normally see in a movie-this can be 
 best seen in the mission "Hell's Highway". This is a tactic that very few, if any, first person 
 shooters employ. So if you want a story, you've got one here, and it is one that you will remember 
 for a long time. Speaking of the story, if you just read up on the plots from the previous games, 
 then you will understand the story just fine. Despite that, the story is so moving and realistic, 
 it almost made me cry (especially when Redford had to go home because he was paralyzed; this saddened 
 me the most) . 
  
  
  The game does have its faults, though .The brutal level of violence in this game captures the violence 
 seen in war, but this system can be a bit glitched; for example, sometimes, the guy you just killed 
 looks like you never killed him at all-he looks like he had a stroke and died. This only happens 
 if you don't shoot in the head or blast off his body parts though. The first person camera is sometimes 
 glitched-when you call out orders, Matt's hand suddenly gets off the gun, makes a quick hand signal, 
 then magically reappears on the gun. I also hate the new health system-its extremely unrealistic, 
 and its also very frustating, as you cannot be out of cover for more than 15 seconds before you 
 get shot and die. The reload animations are also incorrect-and I'm really getting tired of writing 
 this, but seriously, GET THE M-F'ING ANIMATIONS RIGHT!!!! I don't know how many games I've seen 
 getting the reload animation wrong, such as Medal of Honor, Call of Duty 3, and the Battlefield 
 series; you only have to cock a weapon WHEN IT IS OUT OF AMMO. Instead, you cock a weapon everytime... unrealistic.
 
  
  Despite these faults, the game is still good. The multiplayer... is sort of bland. But the campaign 
 will definitely keep you busy for a while. I cannot wait for Brothers in Arms: Battle of the Bulge! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyd803
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought "Brother In Arms: Hell's Highway" about five days after this game released.
  
  I watched this game's game trailer in Ubisoft's webpage two months ago. This trailor is awesome! 
 It really reveled me. Therefore I made a determination to buy this great game.
  Day passed, finally when I bought this game in gamestop I immediately nest it in my machine without 
 any hesitation.
  
  I gotta say this game is perfect. The characters are all emotional instead of lukewarm like other 
 games. They're sympathetic particularly Matt Baker. This game is like a movie which is talking 
 about the relationship between soldiers and soldiers. Every ,an have their own backgrounds and 
 stories, they have a lot of confidence to win this war before Cristmas. Unfortunatelly this operation 
 is doomed to fail.
  
  Although this is the first time I play "Brother In Arms" series, it really exhilarated me. I enjoy 
 it very much. 
  
  This game has the ability of controling your squad. It really assist me to fight against the Axis. 
 The game also relies on the history which made this game impressive and unique than the other game. 
 This game also has the grenade indicator which helps the player easier to lock your enemy. The 
 Axis soldiers don't get thier own grenade, though. One more thing which is my favorite is the action 
 camera! Once you are watching an action camera either bombing the Axis or blowing a head off, you 
 feel like you're eliminating the soldiers by yourself, it also can diminish the pressure from your 
 school work. It really immerse yourself.
  
  But I have to say the graphic of this game isn't well enough, needs improve. The graphic feels 
 like 2004 and 2005 instead of 2008. Suggest to take a look the graphic of "Medal of Honor: Airborne" 
 . Then you'll know the differ between these two games. And this game sometime go glitchy, too.
 
  
  Though this game took place in frontline, the frontline isn't crazy enough to excite the players. 
 The alley AI isn't smart enough. Sometimes go nut. 
  
  
  "Brother In Arms: Hell's Highway" is a game which is much differ than the other FPS games. It relies 
 on history which makes the game unique and the emotional soldiers makes the game looks perfect. 
 The action camera is extremely realistic than ever, too. But the graphic needs to improve. 
  It's worth to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinder109
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  I reserved this game from GameStop. Picked it up the very day it came out, went home and popped it 
 in. I have to say at first i was dissipointed at the graphics, being that they look just like Moha. But 
 i got used to it after awhile. the tactical gameplay is what makes this one of my absolute favorites. I 
 like how you can command up to three different sqauds at once. My full review.
  Presitatioin:8/10. the presitation was pretty good. I thought it was neat how they added a previsaly 
 in brothers arms theme at the beginning so that you remember what happend in the last two games.
 
  Gameplay:8.5/10. As i said above the tactical aspect of this game is what made me like it alot. However, i 
 didnt really like how they didnt let you choose your own weapons at the beginning of eacg level. And 
 the fact that they didnt impliment a offline mutiplayer really hurts this game.
  Graphics:7.5/10. Again as i said above i didnt really care for the graphics. i thought that it could 
 have been better.
  Difficulty:8/10. the enemy AI is pretty good, but there still are some issues that could have been 
 fixed.
  Controlles:9/10. I thought the controlles were good and easy to get used to.
  Learning Curve:8/10. It takes some time to get used to the the tactical commands and whatnot.
 
  Replay value:6/10. unless you have Live this game sucks in terms of replay value.
  Story line and voice acting:7/10. the story in this game is alright, but ive seen better. as in terms 
 of voice acting, its ok ,but there are some lines that give of a funky odor.
  Closing thoughts: this game is a excellent choice for a collection. IMO, BIA Earned In Blood was the 
 best in series, because of the coop. If your someone who is not familiar with the series, I would 
 recommend you rent first before you buy.
  Bottom Line: good game but no MP earnes this game 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Rasay
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game is the most realistic game u'll find in the market. The cover.. the one shot kills... the 
 superb use of  easy but very effective.. the hushed 
 sound in stealth.. and the yells in combat.. the 15 min street fights... the superb visual design... the 
 outstanding cover system and squad control mechanisms... this game will suck u in in a way that 
 if one of ur men dies in action u'll feel a heavy burden upon u although u knw they are gonna be 
 restored at the next checkpoint.. all that gives u a shooter thats uses brains and not just mad 
 button smashin.. all this... make this game the best yet!.. buy this or go dump ur xbox 360 now!! 
 and btw the 360 version is the best thx to its awesome controller...!! BUY NOW!!! this is definitely 
 worth the money u payed 4 it!!!!!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Engaging story, great audio/visual package, squad based gameplay keeps it separated from 
 the rest, decent length
  
  The Bad: Still WWII..., relies too much on knowing other BiA games, pointless slow-mo cams, must... be... patient...
 
  
  I never really liked BiA back when they first came out because 1. I didn't have a PC that could 
 run it or an Xbox. 2. I preferred the run & gun aspect like in Medal of Honor and Call of Duty, 
 and 3. I was too impatient back then for the tactical gameplay. I have changed since then and am 
 not an impatient little teenager with raging testosterone. I have picked up Hell's Highway expecting 
 a bit of a mix and thankfully there was. BiA has been known for it's tactical squad command gameplay 
 with great AI, a great non-fictional story around the fictional WWII setting, and that's here, 
 but it's even better.
  
  The story goes a little something like this: You are Baker who goes through an emotional roller 
 coaster ride with his squad mates and you really feel what the soldiers are feeling... and even 
 tear jerking at the end. The only problem is that you have to have played previous BiA games to 
 fully understand the story from the beginning. The story does one of those looping plot twists 
 where it starts out at the end and goes 3 days back, then goes forward after that. The plot holes 
 are jerking when they are filled and you really get pulled into the story. As far as I know this 
 is the only WWII story like this. I guess you can say this is my favorite WWII game story wise 
 and it makes me want to pick up the other two original Xbox games.
  
  What really counts though is the game play in one of these types of games right? Well the impatient 
 should steer clear because you CAN NOT, I repeat, CAN NOT run out and go Rambo and their Kraut 
 @$$es. You WILL be shot down almost instantly, and this is not good if you want to restart constantly 
 (and experience the almost too long long time) . You have to position your squad mates around the 
 various cover on the battlefield and slowly have them pin the enemies down so you can go around 
 and flank them with... whatever you want, no you can't melee in the game so that's out... sorry only 
 Call of Duty 3 lets you do that. Each batch of enemies has a red circle above them and when it's 
 red they can blow your beehiney apart if you run out, but if you command your squad mates to suppress 
 them with fire it will turn gray and you can run out... for a few seconds. The game gives you plenty 
 of ammo so don't worry about wasting shots. I mainly used single shot rifles since head shots were 
 mostly needed due to enemies taking cover. That's what also makes the AI so great, so say for instance 
 you run up to the cover the enemy is behind they'll run away and hide somewhere else. Throw a grenade 
 and they'll boogy on out of there even if their on a Flak 88!
  
  Now you can command four types of squads: Bazooka, Base Fire, Assault, and MG. Go figure on what 
 those all do, but they are all essential to keep you alive. Another thing that makes you REALLY 
 think is that if you send your squad out in open fire they'll die to (but only until the next cut 
 scene because they are all main characters...) so you have to have one squad pin the enemy down 
 while that squad runs, so it's a leap frog type thing. This is really great and keeps things from 
 being boring since you have to think... psh yeah who woulda thunk that a WWII shooter would make 
 you think! Of course you have grenades, but you get a grenade ring and it's basically an auto-lock 
 thing so just hold RB and the grenade will fly over to the enemy on it's own.
  
  Speaking of all of that something new here is the "action cam" thing. It's kinda cool since BiA 
 is the only game that seems to realize there was actually blood and guts in war... they don't try 
 to purty it up for kids. Sometimes when you make a cool headshot you get a cut-a-way cam of the 
 guys head getting all bloodied up and his helmet falling off. The same goes for explosions so you'll 
 see guts go everywhere (get a clue EA and Activision!!! Stop being sissies!!)
  
  If you've been wondering about the audio/visual experience this whole time it's because its good 
 or I would have said something! The game uses the UT3 engine (you know the same one in BioShock 
 and Gears of War?) Its nice and all yet still seems like the game came out last year. Maybe that's 
 because the game was delayed almost a year (yet I have NO idea why) . The game has great lighting 
 effects, explosions, fire, concrete, rebar that blocks your view sometimes in the 3rd person cover... it's 
 good but not amazing. The voice acting is really great and the whole game feels like WWII (you 
 probably wouldn't give a damn at this point though...)
  
  If you want to know about multiplayer don't come here because I never bothered playing it since 
 it was a rental. I'm sure it's great and has all the multiplayer goodness that most WWII shooters 
 have. I highly recommend this game since it has a pretty long campaign (takes about 8 hours to 
 beat) and really concentrates on Operation Market Garden instead of the whole damn war!!! So, you 
 really get a good idea of what that battle felt like. Don't spend $60 on this though just rent 
 it or wait for a price drop... please... get Fallout 3!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfman46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazingly deep, and you cant continue to out-flank the AI, its gets wise. The graphics 
 are perfect, none of the over ambitious "gritty" realism, instead a proto-realism. The story is 
 very good, and makes sense even without voices. Many games fail to articulate unless scenes without 
 dialogue, but BIA: HH is able to show you one man scenes and you'll get everything. The game play 
 is amazing, and the guns rock. GET IT. The cover system helps make it epic, thing GEARS combined 
 with call of duty. its epic. son. son. son. i love it. buy it. boom boom boom boom boom boom boom 
 boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom 
 boom boom boom boom boomn epic. boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom 
 boom boom son. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unlucky57
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say that this game was exceptionally good, the story was excellent and the game 
 engine is supurb, the only thing that this game really lacks is a good multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 component is extremely laggy and it seems like an afterthought, the game took almost 3 years to 
 develop which should have yielded a much better multiplayer, but the story is what made the game 
 good, I always wondered what happened to Allen and Garnett, also it was awesome having the real 
 life characters of Lieutenant Colonel Robert Cole, and Colonel Robert Sink. What makes this game 
 different is that it is about a battle that allies lost miserably, and obviously the history behind 
 the story is accurate. One little thing that did make me a bit curious is why cant bazookas and 
 tanks blow up many objects like trees and brick walls, but overall the game was great and i cant 
 waint for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  People have been talking about how World War 2 games are getting really boring now. Now every time 
 a new shooter comes out that takes place in World War 2, most people will put it down and say that 
 it is going to suck. As you can see Brothers in Arms is a World War 2 shooter, and let me say one 
 thing, this game rocks!
  
  Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway is an awesome game with a great story, and great game play. Te story 
 is that you play Matt Baker. You are a commander of a squad taking part in Operation Market Garden. 
 Operation Market Garden was a plan to end World War 2 by Christmas, but it failed. You take part 
 in that through a series of missions. The story is very dark and bloody, and some times, the game 
 dos not even fell like a game, bt more like an animated version of a really violent World War 2 
 movie, like "Saving Private Ryan". The story will get really deep and disturbing. But that is what 
 makes the story really good.
  
  In Brothers in Arms, you control a bunch of different squads, and yo move them around the battle 
 field to help you kill your enemies. You give orders to your squads, and watch as they do their 
 part in battle. The controls are really good for giving orders.
  
  Hell's Highway is similar to Rainbow Six Vegas. The game is first person, but when you take cover 
 behind walls, you go into third person. The controls once again work really well.
  
  One cool feature in Hell's Highway is the kill cam. When you pop a head shot, or throw a grenade, 
 or order a good bazooka strike, then the camera will zoom in on the enemies. If you pop a he shot, 
 you will see your enemy's head explode. If u throw a grenade, or order a good bazooka strike, then 
 you will see your enemy's arms and limbs fly off. It looks really cool, and it never gets old.
 
  
  The graphics in Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway are really good looking. The environments look 
 really good, and the weapon models and character models look really good. The Problem is that some 
 times textures won't load on you fellow soldier's face, so their their faces will look like a blob.
 
  
  The sound in Brother's in Arms Hell's Highway is awesome! Voice acting sounds good. Guns sound 
 good, and explosions going off sound good. Over all Brothers i Arms Hell's Highway has awesome 
 sound.
  
  The single player lasts about ten hours, but after that you can play the multi player. The multi 
 player is a lot like counterstrike in that it is round base. You pick your class every round, like 
 in a battlefield game, but when you die, you are out for the round. The multi player is fun, but 
 it only has a few maps. But most of the maps are a lot of fun to play, because, they are all kind 
 of similar in a way that they are big open maps. the main goal in the multi player is to hang up 
 your flag, while the other team defends it. You win by hanging up you flag, or defending your, 
 or by eliminating the other team. That multi player is pretty good, and worth giving a try.
  
  Over all, Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway is a great game with good game play, a great story, 
 and good multi player. Anyone wh like tactical shooters should give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freestylebacon7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is a shooter that takes place during operation Market Garden. 
 The game has a pretty good storyline, but it does not have that cinematic feel to it like the BIA's 
 in the past. Some of the cutscenes seem rather dull, lacking sound, and not getting your attention.
 
  The single player gameplay itself is pretty enjoyable over all. It is nice to have a squad to 
 order around, but they are not the smartest group of AI I have ever seen. In fact, they are terrible, 
 and will get themselves killed easily. Also, the health system is not so great. When the enemy 
 is only firing at you when you're not under cover, your health goes down, even if they are not 
 hitting you. But the amount of health recharges, just like on Call of Duty.
  The game has some pretty awsome effects to it though. Like if you get a cool headshot, it zooms 
 in and shows it in slow motion as blood shoots out and a big bullet hole goes into the german's 
 face. Also, when you throw a grenade or shoot a bazooka round into alot of enemies, it zooms in 
 and shows it in slow motoin as the guy gets blown to bits (literaly) . The graphics in the game are 
 decent. It doesn't have as good of graphics as Call of Duty 4 or Bioshock, and it has awkward times 
 during a cutscene where the graphics load as they are showing.
  Overall, this game is worth playing if you are looking for a decent first person shooter, but hardcore 
 gamers will be dissapointed.
  
  I'm content with my purchase of this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cahallmxj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Story: (I *think*, the up to this point in the beginning needed a little more work) 
  Sgt. Matt Baker is a haunted man. He has survived. Many of his fellow soldiers have not. Some deaths 
 have been the result of chaotic battle. A few have been the result of circumstance and tragedy. 
 One such incident forced Baker to make a choice between telling the truth and watching a man be 
 killed or saving him by keeping the man's confession to himself. He chose to save him. This one 
 choice led to over half of Bakers squad being killed when the man snapped from the guilt that he 
 had been carrying around. Now Baker has a reputation as being cursed and the strange pistol (a 
 gift from his father) he carries has gone from being a good luck charm to a bringer of death and 
 misfortune. 
  Now with his squad brought up to strength, Baker and his fellow soldiers are spear heading Operation 
 Market Garden and the effort to clear Hell's Highway. But the past won't leave Baker alone and 
 some of the replacements are asking about the incident that led to half the squad getting killed. 
 As the war marches on so does Baker's squad from the initial battle to clear the way for the Paratroopers 
 to the final mission to push the Germans out of there Holland strong hold. During this time Baker 
 will have to find a way to address the guilt in his heart or it very well may make him lose his 
 mind. 
  ------------------------ 
  First off if the above summary is a little vague it's because I did not play the last game in the 
 series and the "previously on brothers in arms" bit at the beginning of the game is more or less 
 meant to jog memories not bring those who have no idea what happened previously up to speed. I 
 can say by the end it makes sense. The game's story over all reminded me of a book called RedLiners 
 by David Drake. Most of these guys are definitely there. Now onto the game. I really liked this 
 one I guess because it focuses more on a story (like COD4) then here's the evil doers go blow em 
 up like you square jawed, bullet proof heroes of WW2 shooters always do. The game also reminded 
 me a bit of Rainbow Six Vegas as far as using other squad members for flanking and suppressing 
 fire. You usually have up to three small squads you can move around. You really have to use these 
 tactics or you do end up dying a lot. This can be annoying sometimes when you forget and move around 
 without cover and all enemies seem to instantly know where you are, even though they may be facing 
 away from you, and fill you full of holes. There are also a few tank maps where the player can 
 blow stuff up good. If your trigger happy your probably not going to like this game, but if you 
 like a mix of gears of war (cover based fighting) , call of duty (story and pacing) and Rainbow 
 Six Vegas (tactics) then give it a shot, its almost like playing a episode of Band of Brothers. 
 
  -------- 
  Graphics: Great, environments are detailed, stuff blows up good, and most characters avoid the 
 uncanny valley. 
  Game Play: Generally Good. A mix of GOW, COD, and RB6: Vegas. 
  Story: Good. It made me want to see what happened next. 
  Controls: They worked good for me. 
 No throw the controller across the room moments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  This game is the best WAR game I have played on XBOX ever!!!!
  The story is amazing. between the action, the story within the game is like watching a hollywooed 
 blockbuster movie which you are part of. AMAZING.
  
  Each mission is more engaging and mind blowing as the next. I actually feel sad completing a mission 
 because they are thrilling and a joy to play. I don't want this game to end.
  
  I never though COD could be knocked off it's perch but this game does it.
  
  The best tank 
 battle system ever!!!! You have to play it to appreciate what I mean.
  
  I cant' say enough of what already has been said but you really need to at least rent it if you 
 can't afford another $60 spend. But beware, you will want to own it after trying.
  
  I am playing this, Dead Space and Silent Hill and have to say that this game stands toe to toe 
 with Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XIG4METIM3IX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  The BIA series has always been in the heart of the single player enviroment with no one really 
 thinking that it would do well in a MP scenario throughout the series, and guess what? This time 
 it hasnt changed lol. BIA: HH has a impresively engaging storyline with the cutscenes classicly 
 built to make you think that your actually there, or watching it in cinema. The voice acting is 
 superb, and the sound and visuals are all worth the bargain. The MP is by far obviously the worst 
 part about BIA: HH, its laggy, almost no ppl on there, and theres always suspicion (as well there 
 should be) about a squad based game going online. There were ppl saying "I got 9 kills OMG" on 
 there the first day, and ppl who were like "This is what they made a trashcan for." Lol, so basically, 
 the story is amazing, as you would expect like I said, but dont expect anything amazing from the 
 MP in this BIA sequel. One more thing to note is that this game uses the new Unreal 3 engine, which 
 makes one level (where its pouring rain in the middle of a ruined town) look extremely lifelike, 
 and the water looks a lot like the GoW type, alsowith the water sliding down your helmets, and 
 dripping off at will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwarriorz71
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  It may not be the best fps ( first person shooter for you people who dont know what fps means ) 
 but it is posaibly the best WW2 game made the graphics are good, the combat is intense and grity, 
 there are even some frightning moments ( spoiler warning ) like when Peiter is killed and his blood 
 staned face keeps poping into your head. There is alot of cusing ( with a name like Hells highway 
 a can see why ) . now the bad parts of the game = (. The AI isnt very good which is a good thing 
 if you are going for easy kills. Alot of times the AI just stand there being shot at and they hardly 
 notice the fact a garnade lands next to them. Achevments are easy to get ( for your 360 owners 
 the best console ) I got over 650 gamerpoints for beating it on easy. I recomend this game for 
 anyone looking for a great WW2 fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  at frist when i got this game i thought it wasn't going to be what they said it was going to be 
 its going to be boring .. but i must say i have ate my words over and over again. this story line 
 was really good , it was sad, it was humors , but most of all i understood half of what those guys 
 went thou in war .
  it had so much historical background even including the recon and little kilogy you had to find 
 through out the game had a symbolic meaning.
  
  the shooting was great , each time you shot some one and you did it at the right time it would 
 show you in slow motions how the bullet would hit there head and them hitting the ground. another 
 thing i enjoyed about this game was that in most games you can some time ( if you good like me 
 jk) you could run into a crowd of about 6 in kill all of them and never get touch, well in this 
 game here it taught you how to suppress fire and then flank from the other side that game and game 
 play was built on that theory SUPPRESS AND FLANK SUPPRESS AND FLANK.. you did that you had no problems 
 lol.. but i enjoyed this game . i haven't played a game like this in a while . so its was GREAT!!! 
 AND FOR THE ACHIEVEMENT HOES ... ( GREAT ACHIEVEMENTS !!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  The Brothers in Arms series has always set itself apart from other world war two games that have 
 been released over the years. The series has gained a good reputation for having challenging tactical 
 combat as well as an emotional and realistic storyline. I've been a fan of the series from the 
 beginning and have been looking forward to the latest installment since it was announced. 
  
  Hell's Highway's story picks up right where the previous games left off. The game puts you 
 into the role of Sergeant Matthew Baker, a soft spoken squad leader who's lead his men through 
 the horrors of combat since D-day. Still coping with the deaths of the soldiers he's lost, Baker 
 must focus on the present and do his best to keep his men alive. An emotional story, great narrative, 
 interesting characters and fantastic voice acting are what set Hell's Highway apart from other 
 first person shooters. 
  
  The game's squad based combat certainly makes it a challenging experience. Even playing on the 
 easiest difficulty requires the proper use of your squads, venturing out into the open by yourself 
 usually results in a quick death. The game's A. I. is surprisingly good and enemies react to your 
 squads actions. If your fire team suppresses a group of Germans by pinning them down behind a fence, 
 they'll cower in dirt and blind fire their weapons at you. If your squad stops firing they may 
 retreat into the opposite direction. On the flip side, if your teams begin to get pinned down, 
 the Germans will maneuver and attempt to outflank you. All of the weapons are realistic in looks, 
 sound and accuracy and give the game a much more realistic feeling. Using your squad is necessary 
 for completing most missions, Brothers in Arms requires tactics and thinking, running into battle 
 by yourself will get you killed in a matter of seconds.
  
  Although the single player's story and squad combat are great, the levels seem way to linear and 
 don't allow the player much creativity when deciding which path they can take, the game forces 
 you down a specific path and can make the game play boring at times. Brothers in Arms biggest flaw 
 is that it's been in development for way too long. It was scheduled to be released last year but 
 was delayed. Because of this the graphics seem somewhat outdated and some of the features just 
 aren't as interesting as they would have been a year ago. An example would be the game's kill cam, 
 which puts unique deaths such as explosion kills or headshots into slow motion. This has been done 
 better by games that were released years ago.
  
  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway's multiplayer seems broken at times. It relies on one person issuing 
 orders to other players. Although it is fun to play with dedicated people, it's just a frustrating 
 task playing with random people on Xbox Live for the simple fact that most people won't listen 
 to each other. I wouldn't overlook playing online, but I also wouldn't get my hopes up. It doesn't 
 offer much that hasn't been done before and will most likely be overlooked by the up and coming 
 Call of Duty: World at War.
  
  Hell's Highway's amazing story will have you on the edge of your seat if you enjoy games with dramatic, 
 cinema-like stories. I would recommend playing the first Brothers in Arms games if you would like 
 to get the full experience out of Hell's Highway. Despite some issues such as being slightly outdated 
 and having questionable multiplayer, Brothers in Arms: Hell's highway is a great experience that 
 I would recommend to anyone who isn't sick of the world war two genres. The story is amazing and 
 the game play is challenging even when played on the easiest difficulty. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bperdue
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway features the same great tactical gameplay seen in the 
 first two games. In fact, BIA HH requires more tactical skill than other tactical first person 
 shooters and easily tops all other games in the genre. With that in mind, if you did not like the 
 first two games, you will probably not like this one. Controls are simple and take very little 
 time to learn/relearn. The game also effectively blends squad based tactical combat with standard 
 fps gameplay. Something some gamers may not like are the numerous cutscenes (which appear when 
 the gamer pulls off difficult kills) added to the gameplay this time around. AI seems to have been 
 upgraded a little for HH. There are very few glitches in the AI and the enemy will punish you for 
 remaining in one spot too long. Along those same lines, do not expect to be able to hide behind 
 wooden cover for too long because cover is now destructible. Veterans of the series may find HH 
 a little easy in difficulty. It will probably take most veterans of the series about 12-15 hours 
 to complete the game on Veteran difficulty.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The graphics are on par with other recent shooters, but are not the best I have 
 seen. As with the other BIA games, HH shows great attention to the historical detail of buildings 
 and battlegrounds. The sounds of the battlefield come to life and gunfire matches fairly well with 
 weapons being fired.
  
  Storyline: BIA HH puts you back in the shoes of Baker during Operation Market Garden. One of the 
 weaknesses of this game is that it requires a good knowledge of what happened in the previous two 
 games for the storyline to have any effect. 
  
  Multiplayer/Online: BIA HH has a very unique multiplayer set-up. Instead of a death match type 
 game, online players are part of a squad and each person plays a different role. It is really too 
 early to tell if this will be popular or not, but the idea is interesting and I think it is great 
 that the developers took a risk here. 
  
  Overall: BIA HH is one of the best tactical shooters offered on any platform. The gameplay is exciting 
 and challenging. The AI is superb and replay value should be moderately high. In the end, the game 
 lacked some of the polish required of a 9.0-9.5 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehell321
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway, the long awaited title is here, and comes in with a roar!, It 
 continues where the previous titles left off, and is more in-depth than ever before, which, for 
 newcomers, may seem like there's something they missed, which is true, though there's a "Previously 
 on" cutscene at the beginning of the game, but it seems to not be as informative as one might expect. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  The game now focuses on the ambitious, but highly risky Operation: Market-Garden, which was the 
 last strategic victory for Nazi Germany in the European Theater of Operations (E. T. O.) The game 
 has nicely done graphics, (though not the best) , the sounds are top-notch, and the characters, both 
 new and old, are very detailed and really adds to the "Brotherhood" feeling of the game, the levels 
 are as authentic as the previous titles were and the green and wide backdrop of the beginning of 
 the game is an awesome sight, the tactics are the same as the other titles, (if it works, why change 
 it?) , though the "Assault" feature has gone AWOL for some reason, the basic squad implements are 
 all still in, (Find, Fix, Flank, and Finnish) , and the outcome of most of the engagements depend 
 heavily on how you perform under fire as a squad leader, the lives of your men, are under your 
 command. The weapons are well done, and perform nicely, but for some reason, the developers seem 
 to have gone with a more "Call of Duty" approach to the weapons, they have significantly less recoil, 
 ans the sights seem more arcadish than might be expected of this series, the reloading also is 
 incorrect on a few weapons, this doesn't really effect the gameplay a whole lot, but it does make 
 destroying the enemy much easier and you can run and gun a short ways with small enemies around, 
 but when encountering larger, more professional enemies, teamwork IS A MUST, the game is a bit 
 more fast-paced as it was in real life during Operation: Market-Garden.
  
  
  
  
  Since Operation: Market was a race against time to capture a series of roads and bridges across 
 Northern Holland and to create a clear path for "Garden", an armored push to the German border, 
 directly east of Berlin, if it worked, the Allies would be over the Rhine and into Germany, and 
 would hopefully be home to celebrate Christmas. The A. I both friendly and enemy are well done and 
 are pretty good at fighting, but they're not tactically smart, they'll run in the line of enemy 
 fire to get to a point you tell them to go, unlike the last games where they know whats safe and 
 whats just plain suicide, this time, they seem to be a bit dumbed down, but they do provide excellent 
 cover fire, and flanking maneuvers, they can now (like the player) , vault over low walls, debris, 
 and wooden fences ect., the flaws with the Germans is that they NEVER throw grenades, or even try 
 to assault or flank you, they hold their position till you flank them and they have to fall back 
 and displace, they do however have good shots, they can pin you down in a heartbeat, especially 
 on harder difficulties, the cover system which is very similar to that of Rainbow 6: Vegas works 
 rather well with the squad tactics.
  
  
  
  
  Another thing missing is the "Extras, that were favorites of all BIA fans, they included, After 
 Action Reports (AARs) , behind the scenes on how level designs of games like these work, weapon 
 briefings and lectures by Col. John Antal (Brothers in Arms Historical Adviser, also missing was 
 the awesome Orchestral scores that were created for each level, and was viewable on the extras 
 in the main menu, giving each level it's own unique feel and taste. So it may not seem like this 
 game has much historical accuracy to a new comer, because theres nothing really to show off to 
 him or her that this game is something different than the rest of the WW2 games out there, theres 
 only a small and short history paragraph about each level located in the Tactical Map, which is 
 nice, but isn't anything amazing like the previous titles.
  
  
  
  
  In the end, Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is a masterpiece well worthy of the BIA name and the 
 story leaves off with a "To Be Continued"... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bvp301
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  BIA: HH is not my first adventure into the life of Sgt. Baker and the rest of the Fox Company in 
 the 101st. I started playing this series over 3 years ago with the introduction of Hill 30 on the 
 original Xbox. Back then things were a lot simpler; I was not as critical of a gamer and my expectations 
 of single player campaigns and multiplayer modes in shooters were not nearly to the level they 
 are today. (Thanks entirely to 2 games: Single Player - Bioshock and Multiplayer - G. R. A. W.) The 
 latter was the real deciding factor in why I gave this game a lower review then its predecessor. 
 However even with its multiplayer flaws the nostalgia still lingered on and memories of D-Day and 
 fighting through the French countryside made BIA: HH an utterly enjoyable experience.
  
  With that said, however, I do not feel that a prior experience in the Brothers in Arms series is 
 necessary to really appreciate what this game brings to the table. If someone decided to go out 
 and get Halo 3 without any other Halo experience, does that make the game experience falter some? 
 I do not believe so. In BIA it does make things rather confusing at times when the flashbacks occur 
 and former squad mates are mentioned, but it does not take away from what really makes this game 
 great (well... almost great) .
  
  And what really makes this game great, above everything else is how the story correlates with the 
 gameplay. Each member of your squad is an individual and just like in any great tale, we always 
 have our favorites. These attachments make the gameplay unique because you are in charge of ordering 
 these people around; and who really wants a decision that gets one of their favorite squad mates 
 killed looming over their head? Even in situations that are inevitable (which does happen) I found 
 myself trying anything I could to save my comrades. This is what separates a story from a truly 
 immersive experience. And that is what this story becomes, an immersive event in all facets; from 
 the gameplay to the interaction with characters and even the cut scenes. I have heard some people 
 gripe about not being able to skip through the cut scenes and think to myself why you would ever 
 want to, unless you are just playing through the game for achievement points and don't actually 
 want to enjoy the experience. Not to mention that they are essential in grasping the full context 
 of the story presented in the game.
  
  Gameplay is almost a spot on match to the original, which I thought was refreshing in the first 
 person shooter genre. It isn't Call of Duty or Halo, it has a much more pristine and realistic 
 feel to it. However it does handle much like other FPSs, which keeps the learning curve to a minimum. 
 What it is known for is the tactical team based combat that it puts you in charge of. While at 
 the helm of commanding your small squad you are supposed to establish a base of suppressing fire 
 and then individually or with an alternate group flank and kill the enemy. While more often than 
 not in the easy and medium difficulties this process is only needed in the more challenging parts; 
 playing through on the hardest difficulty really puts an emphasis on team based strategy. The controls 
 are fairly streamlined, which can work both in a good way and in a bad way. It is good because 
 it opens the game up to more people, but at the same time bad because it feels almost dumbed-down 
 and not as all encompassing as it could have been. I have read some complain about glitching control 
 issues in the squad commands, and while there are a few inevitable issues, for the most part on 
 my play through of the game my squad handled much like they should have. Something which people 
 did criticize that I completely agree with is the linear level design. I give it some slack because 
 it is an FPS, and it is rare to find a truly non-linear FPS, but in the case of BIA, which stresses 
 tactical strategic combat it seems a little ridiculous that one only needs to pull up their mini 
 map to find the sole flanking route to an opponent they have pinned down... that is undoubtedly 
 disappointing. The tank missions I also felt where a little disappointing. Not only were the controls 
 a little jagged, but I felt the tanks themselves could have been used in a more strategic way. 
 For instance, why not give us a squad of Shermans that we control and then go take down a Panzer 
 or two, this is how they did it in WWII, because the Sherman was so inferior to the German tanks. 
 But that is a minor part of the game. Finally, the last protest I have is with the hidden items 
 add on. The Recon points are alright, although they show you exactly where they are on each map, 
 maybe they could have thought of a better way to make them obvious. But the Kilroys, I felt, were 
 completely useless to the game, I think they were just used as a cheap way to entice some replay 
 value and to lengthen levels while you run around searching for them. And while the recon points 
 were too easy to detect, just the opposite is true for the Kilroys, even when you find one it is 
 hard to see the white chalk on the walls.
  
  The graphics and sound both did an absolutely fantastic job. The character models aren't perfect 
 (I think the main problem is in the facial movements; the mouth and eyes) , but what ones are? Whereas 
 the level design and details are so exceptional that they more than make up for the characters. 
 The sound as well as the voice acting is on the same level. While bullets are whizzing by your 
 head and your squad members are yelling at you to take cover it is easy to feel a sense of urgency 
 and realism. I especially like the defined ping the player gets when they reach the end of a magazine. 
 It adds a personal level of sound on what is usually a roaring vast array of battlefield noises. 
 I did not have a problem with in game dialogue, my crew would sometimes chatter about getting to 
 cover, or not completing objectives, but it was not incessant like some reviews made it sound. 
 The last thing to the graphics is the addition that was up there on my list of what I liked best 
 about the game; the action camera. I don't know why anyone would want to turn it off, I felt such 
 a rewarding feeling when shooting across the map with iron sights and the whole battle scene slows 
 down as a tracer round makes its way through an enemies head and their helmet flies off in all 
 the blood splattering glory one could hope for. And maybe even better than the head shots, the 
 grenade kills. I still found myself, even late in the game, after destroying an enemy bunker with 
 a grenade running in and finding guys without their arms or legs and then going and finding their 
 missing body parts, how satisfying is that. Great job.
  
  That brings me to easily the most disappointing part of the game; the multiplayer. I pose the initial 
 question; if a full effort isn't going to be put into making a multiplayer, is it really worth 
 making? I felt this to be the case because there are moments/parts of the multiplayer that I felt 
 was done very well. For example the 10-on-10 without an extraordinary amount of lag is a nice thing 
 to see. I also feel that the individual squads within each team with different attributes/weapons 
 and the ability for the squad leader to designate them certain assignments was a new idea that 
 was somewhat successful. However at the same time you could only use this little system while playing 
 only 1 type of game mode and only a handful of different maps. Additional game modes and maps would 
 help the multiplayer along a lot, because I feel that the base gameplay in the online mode is fun, 
 although could have been more realistic like the game. (I tend to prefer more realistic style multiplayers; 
 like G. R. A. W., where usually just a few bullets or one well aimed one puts you down for good.) 
 And that brings me to my final question about the multiplayer and maybe the most disappointing 
 part of the game for me; why is there no co-op mode? The possibilities here are endless, and I 
 feel that a co-op mode would have been far superior to the multiplayer mode. They could have dropped 
 us into the missions in the game, or even made up missions with a friend and we could have each 
 had a squad or two to control and then we work together to complete objectives. There could have 
 even been a rescue style mission where one player is pinned down and the other with their squad 
 has to go rescue them. The co-op is a must have in a game like this, and the things they could 
 have done with it would have made this game as good if not better than the ones before it. All 
 I can hope for now is that they come out with some type update that makes this a possibility. This 
 all leaves me wondering what really could have beenfairly close, but isn't quite there.
  Now the most important part of all games, the pure amount of fun a player has playing it. With 
 the rewarding action cam, fairly difficult campaign (even more so on the hardest level) that you 
 feel satisfied after beating, a story that really drags you into the game, and tactical decisions 
 that let you play through the game differently every time, I felt that the amount of fun I had 
 was definitely above average in terms of most FPSs out there. There isn't a whole lot of replay 
 value after you beat it on the hardest difficulty, but I feel that in a few months I would want 
 to come back to this game a take the 101st on another romp through Holland. (But again, I feel 
 that a great game that you only really want to play through once, is still a great gamewith all 
 the new games that come out every week it is hard to invest two run throughs on a single player 
 mode nowadays.)
  
  Grading Scale: (out of 100)
  (4 Categories: Gameplay&Story/30, Graphics&Sound/20, Multiplayer&Lasting Appeal/20, Fun/30)
  
 
  Gameplay&Story: Good realistic feel. Streamlined squad control. (-1) Linear maps. (-3) Great story 
 that reminds me of Band of Brothersas it is supposed to? (+2) Poor vehicle controls and use. (-2)
 
  26/30
  Graphics&Sound: Great action camera. Awesome battlefield noises. Good environmental graphics. Not 
 up to highest standard character visuals. (-2) Great emotional music.
  18/20
  Multiplayer&Lasting Appeal: Lack of varied maps. (-1) Only one game type. (-4) Absence of what 
 could have been a very good co-op. (-4) Ability to play through and have a different experience 
 each time.
  11/20
  Fun: Satisfying while playing and when beaten. Very immersive. Variety of objectives is there but 
 not overwhelming. Still wondering what could have been. (-3)
  27/30
  Misc Bonuses and Subtractions: Originality. (+1) Poor add-ons; killroys and recons. (-1) No effort 
 in making unique achievements. (-1) Keeps us wanting more. (+1)
  
  Total: 82/100
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  BIAHH: the best character dialoggue you'll see better character depth than all others even Gears. 
 I love this game but it does have its flaws which are annoying because this game could get a 9-10 
 score.
  Graphics are great at times but the view of your hand and gun is pretty bad maybe begining 360 
 graphics but everything else was beatifully designed. Great music that inspires you. Amazingly 
 the map of battles is constantly different never repeats itself. The AI on your team is averagely 
 smart and is very well done, but at times when you issue attacks such as your bazooka to blow up 
 an MG nest they say Firing but will just sit there at times and you'll repeatedly have to order 
 an attack. Enemy AI are decent but the can be mentally ill because when a grenade is tossed they 
 don't know whether to run or stay even if they're not being heavil shot at. The squad mechanic 
 is always true even on easy you'll need to stay with the squad at all times. This game makes headshots 
 and ground shattering explosions even better with the slow motion camera showing their limbs or 
 head spliting or or in half. Accuracy with weapons is great and destroyable cover rocks. Tank game 
 play is decent. Online i played on the PS3 and its not the best. I say rent because you'll probably 
 be buying Gears 2. But if you want a kick ass game and a RB6V type of game but set in WW2 then 
 you'll want to try this game out.
  Graphics-8/10
  Gameplay-9.5/10
  Story-10/10
  Total 27.5/30 A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Single Player-
  + Newcomer's don't have to worry with the "The Story So Far" chapter, which is basically a Previously 
 On Brothers In Arms...
  + The gameplay is great.
  + Easy to control your squad.
  + A. I. intelligence is great...
  - but squad will still do some dumb things now and then.
  
 - I don't know if this was just me, but I found it hard to keep up with the characters.
  - Isn't as emotional as the first two games.
  - Sometimes I felt like the death of on of your 
 fellow "Brothers in Arms" wasn't as dramatic as they made it in the first two games.
  + The action camera is a cool feature.
  + I easily racked up 700 gamerscore points without even 
 trying.
  + Driving the tank is REALLY fun.
  - No manual saves kind of sucks, but it's not terribly bad.
  
  Multiplayer-
  - The main issue 
 with the multiplayer is the LAG. Now for me this wasn't extremely bad lag, although at points it 
 got farely bad. From conversations I've heard and had on XBOX Live it sounds like just about everyone 
 is having the lag.
  + Gameplay is real fun.
  - Only one gametype which is simialar to Battlefield's conquest mode, except there are only two 
 flags per map.
  + Multiple roles: Squad leader- you set waypoints where you wish your team to go, weapon choice 
 includes the rifleman weapons. Rifleman- basic role, choose between Thomphson, M1 Garand, and Baur 
 (excuse me if I spelled that wrong) . Specialist- choose between Bazooka, Machinegun, nd Sniper 
 Rifle. Also you have a chance of becoming the Flag Carrier, which goes to one of the flags and 
 use their flag to mount on the pole.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ312
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  never played any of the other brothers in arms but this is the best game ive ever played nice long 
 story. nice cut scences and story good use of cover long not short like wow i just beat it in two 
 hours or even two days no to play and bat that game is like a week or more even if u sit there 
 all day and play it 5 days on easy 7 on hard and probably 2 weeks on life like or whatever the 
 last difficultly is it is awesome. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! so go play it now!!!!!!!!!! the game is like wow in your face i dont even have hd and 
 its awsome been playing the 360 for like almost 3 years now and its the best game ive played yet 
 it is awsome play it!!!!!! if u buy anything for its story buy this if you are buying it for online 
 though compared to badcompany and call of duty 4 dont get it for that its not good online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cid00100
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The story is interesting. You play as Sgt. Matt Baker. He has PTSD (post traumatic stress disorder) . 
 he sees dead people lol. His colt .45 is said to be cursed but its just a gun. their are a lot 
 of cutsecnes but the game is worth it. I wouldn't bother with the multilayer because it honestly 
 sucks. its not a call of duty were you just advance and shoot everything. This game you have to 
 flank and think. their isn't a full lvl health bar like the 2 other ones. theirs some things in 
 the game called Kilroys that you can look for and get achievement points for. dont matter: their 
 is alot of chat on the fourms about this game if your on this game so im just makeing crap up sooo 
 im just doing stuff with the game. ok this is a good game and stuff like that. some are better 
 but it all comes onto your opion and my goat is eating grain in the bucket so i got to go ride 
 my motorbike to chase the goat and the goat is furry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I would like to first say that this is the first game in the series i have played so i don't know 
 anything about the others or if they are connected. NOW at first i was kind of dissapointed with 
 the game but i decided to push on because i had already wasted money on it =] . I found that after 
 a bumpy confusing start you get into a very very good game. The visuals on this game are done very 
 well and the end cutscene of the game after all of the other MANY cutscenes in the game you feel 
 pretty sad and very connected too the characters and the problems they go through. Now gameplay 
 wise at first it's sorta a hassle to get the whole squad thing down but if you have played rainbow 
 six vegas it shouldn't be too bad. Now when you first start playing i didn't understand why this 
 game was rated mature, But after awhile you see the dismemberment and violence your guns can cause 
 and you realize more why it got this rating. For some reason though when I am playing i feel like 
 I am playing a very beautiful (more violent) Medal of Honor game. WHICH Is not bad it just doesn't 
 really stand out aside from brilliant story line. Although the game is pretty standered as in you 
 move from area too area taking out squads and different targets. Twice i recall they threw in a 
 tank driving scene which seemed annoying but it was a fun break after some repeated action. All 
 in all i was suprised by this game and it's worth at least renting if you are interested. It is 
 not very long i got it friday night and finished saturday midday. I have not tried the online so 
 i will not talk about that for now i will check it out though. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Span5
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  If anyone out there is actually reading any of my reviews. you may think that I hate every game 
 that I play... That's not true at all! I actually love a lot of the games that I play, but certain 
 ones like BOA HH simply aren't up to snuff. To summarize this entire review in just a few words 
 I would have to say that this is a RENT, not a buy... This would have to be classified as a rent 
 for a number of reasons.
  
  1) Graphically this game is not very impressive at all. There are moments while in game that this 
 game looks pretty good, but for the most part this game is middle of the road as far as graphics. 
 Especially the character models... Most of the characters have a strange zombie like appearance 
 while in cut-scenes. 
  
  2) Weird little glitches. One of the most frustrating things for me is when a game misses on some 
 basic construction issues. This game suffers from some of the worst collision detection that I 
 have seen in quite a while and the AI is simply not that great. The Devs touted this game as supposedly 
 having GREAT AI! I was never flanked once by the AI in the entire campaign. They simply huddle 
 behind cover until you flank them and shoot them to death... Needless to say, that gets old after 
 the first mission when there is nothing else going on. 
  
  3) Gimmicks... I hate little game gimmicks that DEVS throw in for no reason. This game has a death 
 cam feature that would have actually been pretty sweet if it was done correctly. Unfortunately 
 it wasn't... The death cam is triggered randomly from what I can tell. Sometimes even just a run 
 of the mill shot will trigger it, and other miraculous shots seem to go unnoticed. It's also annoying 
 because when it is triggered, it is broken most of the time anyways and makes you look at a wall 
 instead of the action. 
  
  4) Virtually no incentive to play multiplayer... With multiplayer achievements being all but non-existent 
 and better games out there to play, I can't imagine that the online support for this game will 
 last very long. 
  
  
  
  That's it! Thanks for reading! 
  
  
  Well, that's it... Go rent this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Pretty intense action that utilizes cover mechanics well.
  * A story less about the war and more about a handful of the people in it, which gives it a more 
 personal touch then some other games provide.
  * More blood and gore then the average war game.
  * Hands achievements out like candy, so if 
 you like seeing your gamer score go up then this is a great game for it.
  
  
  Cons
  
  * Sometimes rather then hide in the position you tell them too the AI members of your squad will 
 stand dumbly in the open, getting shot.
  * Some minor texture pop in issues.
  
  
  World War 2 games have been done to death, but as sick of the setting as I am I can't help but 
 appreciate it a tad more in Brothers in Arms: Hells Highway.
  It utilizes the setting in a more interesting way, putting more focus on characters instead of 
 the war which is something a lot of other games don't do or at least do as well as BiA, which does 
 it with a great deal of cinematic flair.
  
  The game play itself isn't anything especially original.
  You could strike up accurate comparisons 
 to say Rainbow Six or Gears in the utilization of cover, the switching from first person to third 
 person when using said cover.
  But what it does it does well.
  
  Game play consists of a lot of issuing orders to your squad.
  Mainly to give suppressing fire 
 on the enemy whilst you sneak around the side and try to flank them. Some parts of the game you 
 have a squad with a man armed with a bazooka that can be useful in taking out enemy cover or machine 
 gun emplacements as well as some of the heavier artillery.
  
  One nice touch is the amount of gore in the game.
  A lot of war games don't feel like accurate 
 representations of war so much as virtual reenactments. You guide your character around, point 
 a gun at another guy - say bang - and he falls over. Not in especially messy fashion. A lot of 
 games make war feel cleaner then it is.
  
  In BiA there is quite a bit of blood splatter when you shoot a guy, all the more evident when your 
 shots deemed good enough to trigger an action camera - it'll zoom in on your shot to watch the 
 guy fall over and see the blood spray as it should.
  Explosions - whether from grenades or tank cannon also blow guys to bits, sending appendages flying 
 every which way.
  
  I haven't touched the multi player yet and I'm not really planning too, so I won't comment on that.
 
  
  Even without taking multi player into account the game is pretty damn good.
  It climbs a pile of generic WWII shooters and breathes a tiny bit of life into a stale setting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safy_soldier
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  brothers in arms is a good world war one strategy shooter slow paced game, but it could do with 
 a bit more working on. the thing that is good about it is that its a mix of first and third person 
 shooter, ( usually first person but when you take cover behind something it changes to third person.) 
 the story is a bit complicated so you need to have played the other brothers in arms games before. 
 the most satifying thing is that when you shoot someone in the head or blow someone up with a grenade 
 the action cam turns on and that is when it shows it in slow motion whitch is very entertaining..... in 
 a bloody and gruesome way. so if you like shooter that need for you to think then this is the game 
 but if you like fast paced explosive action then this is not the game for you. and if you are a 
 brothers in arms fan then get ready for another sequal to it coming out later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golbachmichael
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  great game by far the best ww2 game ever. yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an ana na an an an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an 
 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an 
 an an an an an . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rinker03
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be short and this review is based on the multiplayer.
  
  Before buying the game, I searched online to find details on the multiplayer modes. I was shocked 
 to see that there was no multiplayer in regards to directing an AI squad... I was in disbelief.
 
  
  I bought the game and threw it in my machine immediatly and found no mode w/AI squads. So I played 
 the new multiplayer for 5mins, then ran back to the store to return the game.
  
  I loved this series.. mostly the multiplayer in the previous games. I am just in shock that they 
 took the only unique aspect of this game out. I am sure the single player is great, but the multiplayer 
 could have been a thing of legends if they didn't fix something that wasn't broken.
  
  So finally, if you want this game for multiplayer.. look at the many other fps games on the shelf 
 before this one. (BF2)
  
  Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tkacz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best WWII first person shooter ever crafted. The graphics are some of the best 
 I've seen since BIOSHOCK. The game play is absolutely perfect and polished. The surround sound 
 is beautiful and rich on a nice speaker system. This game is like watching new episodes of Band 
 of Brothers and the way the game plays perfectly blends to the level design and environments. Wow 
 what a great game. Have to wait and see what the new call of duty WWII game is like but its going 
 to be tuff to match this great game. X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I've never played a Brothers in Arms game before, but over the past year or so I've been keeping 
 my eyes on Hell's Highway just because simply put, it looked awesome. After playing through the 
 game, for the most part, it's pretty awesome but there are some major issues I have with the game.
 
  
  Hell's Highway isn't your average shooter for sure. It's very very squad based, more so than other 
 games that claim to be squad based. You're almost expected to suppress then flank every time you 
 get into a confrontation. If you don't, you're forced to pick enemies off from afar with your single 
 shot weapons being that the autos aren't that accurate, and that's where one of the big issues 
 comes up.
  
  The hit detection seems to be terrible. It's either that or there's extra invisible geometry to 
 some of the cover your enemies use. In just about every single confrontation I've had at least 
 one instance where I'm zoomed in with my cross hair at a pinpoint aimed directly at an enemy. I 
 shoot, and nothing happens. This has happened to the point of using an entire clip on one enemy 
 that just won't be shot. Another issue lays in there
  
  The cross hair is tiny and if you're far away from the enemies and you don't have a 40 inch screen, 
 you're gonna be sitting about 2 feet away from your tv trying to get pin point accuracy going in 
 order to pick off the enemies. 
  
  One of the game's strong points is the cinematic gameplay. As much as I never wanted to go back 
 to a WWII FPS, I have to admit this game was pretty awesome. It's like Saving Private Ryan in a 
 video game form. The only problem with this cinematic FPS gameplay is that fact that the gameplay 
 is accessible to everyone, the story not so much. Like I said, this is my first Brothers in Arms 
 game and unlike other FPS like the Call of Duty series, the characters carry over through out the 
 games. So I had NO idea what was going within the personal lives of the characters. If I did know, 
 I would probably like the game more.
  
  Over all for me, it was a good rent. It has solid gameplay and an amazingly cinematic feel. I will 
 admit though that I didn't even touch the multiplayer just because I had no want to. Over all, 
 it's an enjoyable game, but fans of the series will probably take more away from it than newcomers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyodwyer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  It has been nearly a decade since Medal of Honour first brought the terrors of WW2 to game players 
 around the globe. The success of MOH spawned many pretenders and among the crowd was an FPS that 
 infused squad-tactics with tried and tested first person pop & drop. This series came from Valve's 
 good friend Gearbox Software, and Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is the third game in the series 
 to add some refreshing variety to the WW2 FPS bandwagon. You don't get more refreshing than the 
 rolling plains and vast skies of Holland which play stage to the majority of Brothers in Arms campaign. 
 Refreshing too is the premise, Operation Market Garden, the failed advance toward the Dutch/German 
 border and highlight of the Allied campaign blooper reel. You play as Sergeant Matt Baker, and 
 armed with your rifle and a handful of troops you fight the good fight over eight or so hours of 
 tactical -hooting, with the emphasis on the latter.
  
  At its heart Hell's Highway it's a first person shooter which shoehorns you into using some simple 
 squad tactics to complete each arena. Though certain levels critical to the narrative have you 
 going solo, you mostly fight with the control of a selection of squads, each with a specific role. 
 The Base of Fire squad helps ensures Germans keep their heads down, the MG squad can spit shocking 
 levels of lead while the Bazooka team irradiates enemy bunkers and fixed gun positions. Finally, 
 the Assault squad can be used to flank the German positions and put them out of their mystery. 
 Throughout the games ten chapters you will use these tactics to guide your company through Holland.
 
  
  This tactical approach to combat never makes the player feel like they've outsmarted the enemy. 
 Tragically in Brothers in Arms, like in most first person shooters, you're left with the impression 
 that you've been dealt the stronger hand down to some inconsistent mechanics.
  
  As your squads firing from behind cover they're an invincible, bottomless pit of ammunition. You 
 can happily go make a cup of tea or finish a crossword while your troops lay down a constant stream 
 of fire, immune to any response the enemy can muster. The same can be said about your own character 
 to a degree. Built on the Unreal 3 engine, BOI: HH adopts the red-screen hazard mechanic which Gears 
 of War pioneered. Though the increasing red hue onscreen is supposed to act as a warning of your 
 exposure to fire, you will never be struck by enemy rounds until your TV is shining blood red. 
 Essentially you are completely untouchable while the screen isn't exploding red and this can be 
 taken advantage of in most of the levels. It's a shame, because while cover plays such an important 
 part in the enemy's ability to lay down fire, it doesn't affect you or your squads in any meaningful 
 way.
  
  What's also odd is that your invincible head can often sit totally exposed above a fence or hedge 
 while you're in cover. The same can't be said for your German friends, and often gunfights decent 
 into 'whack a mole' as you take aim where you think the next Nazi will pop up. On top of this any 
 of your fallen squad mates are merely incapacitated until the next checkpoint is reached. Any notion 
 of realism is shattered the first time you reach a marker to see five downed soldiers pick themselves 
 up and run across the battlefield. Thankfully the squad commands themselves are excellently fine-tuned 
 and supported by a fantastic graphical interface. Your ability to direct squads is directly linked 
 to your characters position on the battlefield, and each time the camera tilts upward for you to 
 direct your squads is a treat. This accessibility lends itself to exploring alternative options, 
 and while the core gameplay doesn't change throughout the game, the way in which you approach each 
 task is based heavily on your experience. Brother in Arms is driven by a story that follows on 
 from the previous games in the series. The narrative revolves around the characters in your company 
 rather than the operation itself and though it can get pretty convoluted and some of the sub-plots 
 are downright dumb, the lengthy cinematics between levels are enjoyable. The biggest disappointment 
 as you play through Hell's Highway is that without prior knowledge of the characters, the majority 
 of the story lacks any emotional context. Gearbox attempted to counter this by providing a recapping 
 cut scene at the start of the game, but it falls way short of introducing some very deep characters. 
 Graphically the game impresses and disappoints with its choice of environments rather than any 
 engine issues. The naturally bursting colour of the Dutch countryside is a welcomed change to the 
 de-saturated visuals often laboured onto shooters. However when the sun sets and industrial cities 
 swallow up the countryside, you're back in the tired, clichd environments. These levels are broken 
 up by a number of tank-driving missions that tie nicely into the narrative. Fortunately, they're 
 brief, not particularly tasking, and a lot of fun as your cannon makes light work of sandbags, 
 buildings and fleeing German troops. Worth mention too is the exceptional audio design. It's a 
 'WW2 Very Best Of' with favourites such as shrieking bullets, rumbling tank engines and that satisfying 
 Garand's 'ping' as it's final round is emptied into Nazi skull. There is a feeling that the multiplayer 
 needed to be added since the single player hasn't much replay value in today's gaming environment. 
 It's tried and tested capture the territory, but with the single player tactics applied. Squad 
 leaders can set waypoints for the same individual squads in the campaign, with no respawns, and 
 plenty of tanks and explosions. Whether or not it works is down to the individuals who play it 
 , though I suspect its tactic-heavy gameplay will become tiresome to most FPS aficionado's. Though 
 the story doesn't hit home like it should have, and the gameplay sits on the fence between tactics 
 and gung-ho, Brother in Arms: Hells' Highway is among the best shooters to come out this year. 
 It has enough original content to make it a memorable gaming experience, but with a short campaign, 
 and a Marmite of a multiplayer mode it's a tough one to call. The simple fact is that it's probably 
 not value for money as a full price title, but if you can get it on rental or on the cheap somewhere 
 down the road, Hell's Highway is an entertaining and fun Dutch romp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I really liked the first BIA. So I was excited about this one. It is a bit of th same thing but like 
 I said. It was fun the first time. Other than the cover system (witch can be a little frustrating) . Not 
 much was added. Very good graphics but not great. The slow motion came is very cool if you like gore 
 like I do. If you do not the game lets you turn the gore off and the language as well. Witch I think 
 all games should have this option.
  
  The story is very gritty and intense with movie like cut scenes. If you do not like cut scenes you 
 will be frustrated at the length of some of them but I really liked the. Some of the best voice 
 acting in a game ever as far as I'm concerned.
  
  The game play is much the same as the first BIA. However now there is a bazooka squad (very nice!!!) . Your 
 squads are mostly there to create cover fire so you or another squad can flank them. Most maps are 
 made specifically with that in mind. So a lot of the game is like play'n chess. Just getting your 
 people in the right places before you attack. You can run and gun but that's not really what this 
 game is about.
  
  last and lest the multiplayer. Once again to feed the ever starving multiplayer population they 
 slapped on multiplayer. It plays OK I guess but I would have rather they spent more time on the 
 little bugs in the single player game than to have made this mess.
  
  Now my score. Keep in mind I try to never score games based on there multiplayer. Why you may ask 
 because I say!!! To me the story mode is the game the Multiplayer is just there. So Over all I give 
 BIA: HH a 8.0 for the few bugs it dose have and the not so smooth cover system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I enjoyed Call Of Duty 4 but I don't think it's the best first person shooter (FPS) 
 out there. It's a good game but I felt it was more disjointed than it should have been and I'd 
 say I definitely enjoyed Bioshock, Halo 3, and Half Life 2 far more.
  
  While Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is definitely a FPS through and through, it does provides 
 a somewhat slower paced experience than some of the other games I've mentioned. All enemy teams 
 (small groups of a few enemies each) are marked with icons above them which indicates their suppression 
 level. If it's red, then the enemy isn't suppressed at all and will fire on you and your teams 
 at will. If the icon is completely gray, though, they are completely suppressed and they will fire 
 but only from cover, so they are far less threatening. When enemies are suppressed you can try 
 to flank them or otherwise maneuver either yourself or one of your teams.
  
  Sometimes you control zero teams, and there are a few places in the game where you are solo. I've 
 heard reviewers complain about these segments as being poor knock offs of games like COD4 but I 
 have enjoyed them thoroughly. Sometimes you control a single team, but the most I've controlled 
 so far (I'm just over half way through the single player game) is two teams. Usually you have an 
 assault team, which means you usually have three soldiers with automatic rifles and grenades, and 
 then either a machine gun team or a bazooka team.
  
  Managing your teams is easy. You switch between the teams using the B button, and then once you've 
 selected one you hold down the left shoulder button and move your view around to see possible locations 
 where you can move them to as well as enemies teams they can suppress. You can also direct them 
 to destroy cover, and that can be useful when enemies are behind a wood fence or other destructible 
 obstacle.
  
  Once you give them an order, they move there, and they will fight all on their own, doing a good 
 job suppressing enemies or killing them, but you can direct them to suppress a particular enemy 
 team if you wish to. Once you've positioned them and they are holding down the enemies, you can 
 then move your character to flank enemies and pick them off. You can also use one of your teams 
 to pin down an enemy and then move the other to flank them. The system is flexible and easy to 
 use. Enemies aren't brilliant, but they usually know when they've been flanked and will fight back 
 or retreat. 
  
  This provides a somewhat slower paced but very visceral experience. Battles have a somewhat puzzle-like 
 feel to them, but the game does a good job of tying it together with an interesting although somewhat 
 confusing story, a good cast of characters, very good but not exceptional graphics, and some really 
 nice cinematic touches. For instance, the game will zoom in and go into slow-mo mode when you do 
 an especially great kill, which is really neat and makes you feel like a bad-ass.
  
  As I mentioned, the game has a cover system and it's simple to move up to a window or some other 
 barrier (and as you can imagine there are barriers everywhere!) and dig in. So when you're taking 
 damage you can usually just take cover, wait a few seconds while you heal up, and then push the 
 left stick to pop up and shoot. The selection of weapons is great, and includes single shot and 
 automatic rifles, machine guns, pistols, sniper rifles, and more.
  
  There has been one tank segment where you control a tank, go through a fairly linear train yard 
 sequence, blow up stuff, and that was a lot of fun. Other than that, you mostly control teams, 
 and occasionally you go solo. I'm playing the game on easy mode and I've died many times, but it 
 has a great check point and save system so you never lose much progress. Not unlike Halo 3 and 
 Half Life 2, the game is challenging but never frustrating.
  
  Graphically it looks very good, as I've already mentioned, and it has a nice, gritty feel to it. 
 The environments, which all take place in bombed out Holland, look realistic, kills are bloody, 
 and the in-game dialogue uses some adult language but is tasteful and well spoken. The game's frame 
 rate slows down here and there, but never to the point that it takes away from the experience.
 
  
  I have been really burned out on first person shooters recently and wasn't even going to buy this 
 game. I finally bought it just because I figured it was worth checking out while I wait for Fable 
 2 and Fallout 3, which launch later this month. What I've found is this is the best FPS I've played 
 in a long, long time. It is easily as good as any of the best I've ever played, and I find myself 
 playing it for long sessions, with head phones on, completely mesmerized by the experience.
  
  http://goldenagegaming. blogspot. com
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/forums/show_topics. php? board_id=909186401
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I did not play the 1st two games in the series, but im an FPS veteran. This game has some great 
 things that it does. The gore is fantastic, driving tanks is fun, the squad control is good, and 
 you really feel as though you are in WW2 at times. The story is also quite good and I enjoyed the 
 cutscenes. The action camera is also very neat, i just wish it would happen more often. 
  
  Now heres my problems with the game. The controls sometimes feel clunky, and sometimes sprinting 
 can be troublesome. Another thing, tanks and cannons will always shoot at you first, and even if 
 they hit you, you just have to hide until the screen isnt red anymore. Placing bombs on tanks and 
 the guns is also sloppy, no animation or anything. Its obvious the team cut corners on some things. 
 The grenades in the game are very difficult to throw them where you want to, and time consuming. 
 Another thing is the fact that the game is too repetitive, you fight one battle youve pretty much 
 fought them all. Use one team to suppress, and either you or your other squad to flank. Or you 
 just sit back and try to pick off germans yourself. The game is just not that fun after a while. 
 
  
  My biggest complaint is that i never really felt as though i was in serious danger. When your in 
 cover, you can go have a cup of coffee or to the bathroom and come back and you'll still be in 
 cover, safe and sound with likely no changes to the battlefield. Enemies are just not threating 
 as long as your in cover, pop up and shoot, and then hide if the screen turns red. It gets boring.
 
  
  The graphics are also pretty bad sometimes, but thats not a big deal to me. They are good enough 
 when they need to be. Sound is excellent.
  
  After playing through the campaign once and experiencing the good story, I sold the game. Its definitely 
 a good rental, but the game just gets boring after a while and after you beat it theres not much 
 reason to do it all again. The last level is the best, so thats a plus.
  
  Word of advice, the game is cooler with the suppression icons and stuff off, so turn them off in 
 the options menu (authentic mode does this also, but you have to unlock that first) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaMOi1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  
  
  This is the most realistic WWII game yet, having played the originals.
  
  If you have played the originals or just crave a more realistic WWII experience than COD or MOH 
 games... Then BIA: HH is definately for you!
  
  This game had me in awe at how immersive and realistic it all is. The street to street battles, 
 and squad mechanics are excellent. There have been some negative points made about your squad being 
 stupid at times. I have experienced only 1 time where my squad moved to the wrong side of a piece 
 of cover and thats it. Sure sometimes just to be safe, you might want to plot there course to a 
 piece of cover just to make sure they take the safe route, but apart from this, i was leading these 
 men to tactical victory time and time again, no problems...
  
  Its the tactics that really set this game apart from all the others, and its here that the game 
 shines! The strategy element is fantastic, and the sense of achievement is wonderful as you command 
 your men to lay down suppressing fire whilst you move your other squad into a better position. 
 
  Also new to the series is the ability to ambush german soldiers, if they be in the patrol stance. 
 This is a great addition, and certainly alot of fun. Once again, those moments are slightly contrived, 
 happening upon german patrols is at the same point in every level. It would be nice to see this 
 mechanic incorporated as more of a tactical choice rather than a 'set-up'. Nonetheless Ambushes 
 remain intensely satisfying!
  
  The kill cam is a great addition, and slow-mo head shots are rewarding. All the in game features 
 like kill cam, and suppression icons can be turned off for those looking for complete realism.
 
  
  
  Great fun!
  
  Where the game was a bit of a let down...
  
  The developers Gearbox, have never been brave enough to realise the true potential of their franchise. 
 The games levels while offering varying degrees of freedom, could be more open. Its like Gearbox 
 didnt want to alienate core gamers by making the level design too open. Rather they opted to keep 
 a relatively linear design in order to keep the action concerntrated. In my opinion this attitude 
 toward the design of Brothers in Arms has always kept the franchise from true greatness... 
  Not that I want to linger on this too much, as BIA still offers a varied and in many ways unique 
 WWII experience. However the relatively linear design of the games levels will ultimately im sure 
 effect the replay value.
  
  My other gripe, sorry i had two, is that there is no Melee in this game! WHY! The two previous 
 titles had it, and there seems no reason for it to be taken out?
  I found myself close to german soldiers with no ammo, but worse no melee attack..!!! 
  
  Not 
 only this but appears not only you but every soldier in the game neither has this ability?? In 
 previous games you could send your guys to assault an enemy position, and when they were close 
 enough they would fight using the butt of there rifles. Get close to an enemy in this game, and 
 he cant melee you either?!! Craziness. 
  
  So i would hope Gearbox for the next installment put back the melee attack, and also to not be 
 too afraid of opening up the level design of this great game.
  
  BIA is a great franchise, that certainly needs to capitalise on its potential. Nonetheless, this 
 game is a worthy sequel!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  I have been a real big fan of the Brothers in Arms series. I really like playing Road to Hill 30, 
 and Earned in Blood because they were both really great. But now the third installment of the series 
 is here Hell's Highway. Like always the game has brought some of its best stuff back that would 
 make any fan of WWII like. 
  
  This time BIA takes place during the Operation Market Garden. Which was an allied attempt to seize 
 key points to push into Berlin but ended into a huge failure with a huge number of casualties and 
 made them retreat.
  
  This time you'll be playing as Matt Baker the same guy you played as in Road to Hill 30. And may 
 I add that me personally I like Baker just a little bit more than I do Red. The graphics in the 
 game are just stunning and really great. The audio is also another great thing hearing you team 
 shout will there shooting and hearing the Germans shout to hearing the explosions and bullets going 
 past your head.
  
  The controls are at there best hiding and ducking down and stuff is really great. You're team is 
 easy to control so they never get in the way and they never make you get frustrated. Although the 
 enemy AI is sometimes rather dumb as they get stuck in something but isn't something that happens 
 a lot and should ruin your experience.
  
  Hell's Highway is a lot of fun especially when you get a head shoot and the camera zooms in on 
 it make you want to try and get a head shoot every time you do it. It's really fun to flank your 
 enemies and controlling squads.
  
  The only thing I would say that is a draw back and wouldn't make it a lot of fun for a player is 
 if you are new to the game and you are trying to follow the game. If your really interesting in 
 the story maybe you should be and play the other two first but you don't have to. And some people 
 say the multiplayer and online is good at all which I haven't played yet and probably want because 
 never been a real big fan of the two that much anyway.
  
  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is simply a fantastic World War II game if not one of the best 
 in my opinion. And I would also recommend it to anyone who like to play shooters and stuff like 
 that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the third entry for the Brother In Arms Series, and Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway is 
 a well polished title worthy of any World War II fan's collection. The third game takes place during 
 Operation Market Garden, and being a World War 2 buff, I was pleased to see the game, like the 
 others, kept close to history as much as possible. Market Garden was an allied attempt at seizing 
 key points in order to push into Berlin and instead, ended in a failure with thousands of casualties 
 and forced the Allies to retreat. The war would drag well into the next year.
  
  If your a returning BIA vet, or a new comer to the series, its a fresh and should I say charming 
 game thats sure to please any gamer. You take the role of Matthew Baker, and lead up to three squads 
 at a time through a series of chapters that stake out the story as you go.
  
  I would go in depth, but I'll simply give you the quick version so you won't be drowned in the 
 usual words that most reviews are associated with. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful and breath taking, trees and grass seem to buckled beneath 
 your boots and explosions and bullets ripping past your head only add to the overall presentation.
 
  
  Audio: The shouts of German soldiers and your allies are clear and well noted, along with zipping 
 of bullets, thuds of shells in the distance and crackling of flames all add to a unique and life 
 like experience.
  
  Fun Factor: The action cam that zooms in during well placed head shots or gruesome explosions add 
 to a certain thrill that you'll make you want to make each shot count. Controlling squads, and 
 flanking and destroying entire squads of enemy soldiers is not only going to force you to think, 
 but at the same time makes it heart pounding to race around and trying to figure out the best way 
 to attack each enemy.
  
  Controls: The game handles very well for a hide and shoot shooter, and each assigned move works 
 as it should. The only downside is when hiding behind certain walls and such, the player tends 
 to get stuck or unable to move properly, though its a rare occurrence that shouldn't ruin your 
 game play.
  
  Pros: World War 2, graphics and sound are well done. Makes you think and adds the action cam. 
 
  
  Cons: Enemy AI can sometimes be rather dull, getting stuck among things.
  
  A cookie for anyone who can guess where the next game next place. Pay attention to the talk at 
 the end of the game. *Spoiler* Snow is the key word. *End Spoiler* It was a huge major battle near 
 the end of the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stepvac
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms HH has an ok story line to in story mode but if ur looking for more of an online 
 game like call of duty 4 or halo 3, dont buy it. The online play for this game is the worst thing 
 ever. Everybody lags, like after u die, it takes 5 to 10 seconds for ur body to fall. its like 
 playing halo 3 against someone with a bad connection, but all the time. If u like that kind of 
 game, go ahead and buy it, but in general i would not recommend buying this game ever. all im saying 
 is, is that i like good online shooters and this game does not pass my standards even an acceptable 
 game. im not saying anything bad about the story line, i would only buy it if i didnt have XBOX 
 LIVE. the story line is pretty good but im still thinking of returning it and getting my money 
 back. All the reviews said it was a good game but....... THIS GAME SUCKS!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoolKat666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't make any changes to the single player but the multilayer is fun at times, but lacks 
 modes, and i miss being able to control a squad of AI in multilayer. Graphics in multilayer are 
 very shallow but i still play it. This is one of those games where the single player is worth the 
 $60 you pay. You can command up to 3 Squads in SP but only in the last few missions If you didn't 
 play the original then you may not know whats going on at times. (But you purchase BIA Road to 
 Hill 30 on Steam for a mere $9.99) With other WW2 shooter on the market this one is by far one 
 of the best. The SP cut scenes are long at times but not in a bad way *cough* *cough* Metal Gear 
 Solid 4. There are lots of memorable part in the story.
  In the multilayer the are 3 squads of 3 players commanded by a squad leader hardly anyone listens 
 to his orders, on each squad there are one special person who can choose from a heavy machine gun, 
 sniper rifle or rocket launcher, regular player choose from a rifle sub machine gun o automatic 
 rifle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Hells highway, which is the third in the BIA series, shines out among its predecesors. Lets start 
 withthe campaign. It very fleshed out and story is very engaging, and I actually felt the emotions 
 as certain characters died or got paralyzed (RED) . There is also a previously in BIA, which explains 
 alot cuz i never did hill 30. Gameplay is absolutely the most thrilling and engaing thing about 
 the game. Like you set bazooka squad on some MG, and the gunner gets his head blown off by the 
 shell! SWEET! theres a thing called action camera, where if you get an awespome shot or grenade 
 throw, it zooms in to show gorey bloody death. I have to that there is a lot of cussing, but at 
 least f aint said that much. The weapons are absolutely great, maybe the second best part. They 
 look and sound real, and the all have drawbacks and specialties. My personal favs are the M3 grease 
 gun and the BAR. Tanks are cool too, cuz you have couple of missions where you blow stuff to hell! 
 its great. multiplayer is ehhhh, but ya get used to it and im starting to likey. but its gotta 
 good concept. all in all.... BEST GAME OF THE YEAR! so far.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperboy_recon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I was super excited when iheard about the game Brothers In Arms but when it got a bad rationg for 
 IGN i had to rented it first. When i rented it, it had a fun single player everything was good 
 except for the multiplayer. Graphics are horrible and when you die you dont respawn until next 
 round, kinda like search and destroy (CoD4) . If your thinking of buying this game dont, just rent 
 it.
  
  I was super excited when iheard about the game Brothers In Arms but when it got a bad rationg for 
 IGN i had to rented it first. When i rented it, it had a fun single player everything was good 
 except for the multiplayer. Graphics are horrible and when you die you dont respawn until next 
 round, kinda like search and destroy (CoD4) . If your thinking of buying this game dont, just rent 
 it.
  
  I was super excited when iheard about the game Brothers In Arms but when it got a bad rationg for 
 IGN i had to rented it first. When i rented it, it had a fun single player everything was good 
 except for the multiplayer. Graphics are horrible and when you die you dont respawn until next 
 round, kinda like search and destroy (CoD4) . If your thinking of buying this game dont, just rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdop4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'll be the first to admit that I'm not exactly a gaming afficionado: I'll play a game, and 
 I'll usually enjoy it. All the petty little things that bug most reviewers? Don't really bother 
 me. However, Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is one of a few games where I don't even really have 
 to ignore anything overly bad! The squad mechanics are nice and smooth, the gameplay can get really, 
 REALLY intense (and is still intense at most times) , the story's great, and there are a pretty 
 large amount of nice, gory little scense, like when you chuck a grenade into a machine-gun nest 
 and one of the dead Germans flies out with half his torso missing because of the shrapnel (parents, 
 this is a clear sign that you shouldn't park five-year-old Timmy in front of this: he may not start 
 another Columbine, but he might get some premature PTSD, if you catch my drift) ! I've always been 
 a fan of squad gameplay, and this game is like a dream cometrue in that sense. When I gave orders, 
 my soldiers OBEYED- in a halfway intelligent manner! Giving orders and watching my troops move 
 around really made me feel like a squad leader- though I must admit that my ability to see the 
 Xbox 360 gently whiring on the right side of my peripheral vision did ruin the illusion. Now, there 
 are a few issues: I constantly got "aim" mixed with "squad command" (not their fault) , the gameplay 
 sometimes does slow down tactically, which makes my "general in my own mind" side want to kick 
 in the TV screen, and occasionally the cutscenes are a little boring. Oh, and I've only played 
 a couple of levels so far. But who cares? FLYING MULTILATED GERMANS!- I mean, SQUAD COMBAT! WHEEE! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Fable-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in arms: hells highway is a great game, but is missing a few key elements. 
  
  basically the games main problem is its cover system. I'll elaborate 4u... first off BIA is a FP 
 shooter w/ the ability to post up (or "dig in") to almost every object (3rd person style) . this 
 can be a problem. Let say u see some cover (like a falling tree) and u run up to it and you want 
 to "dig in" and you cannot; this can be really annoying when it happens - often times it leads 
 to your death. also, when you do "dig in" you have the ability to jump most object, but sometimes 
 it does not work - funny thing is, is if you move over just a little you can jump the object - 
 gets annoying sometimes. Also, when you're in cover you can not switch from cover to cover (gears 
 of war style) which would have been great since this game is all about moving from cover to cover... 
 Last but not least, no blind fire - WTF? there has been so many times where I have ran up to cover 
 and the enemy was just on the other side - man, blind fire would have saved me a lot of life's! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin98765
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  First off, we all know WWII games have been done to death but could BIA Hells Highway do something 
 different.
  
  The story takes place somewhere in Europe (OBVIOUSLY) but the way out of hell is to go through 
 it and the brave men who went through it called it Hells Highway.
  Soldiers became brothers in HH they faced everything as a team, they went through everything, they 
 were ready to die for Liberty and Peace.
  
  The gameplay is the same as any other WWII game but this time it is a bit different, new modes, 
 new actions and new ideas breathe fresh air on the genre. Unlike Medal of Honor or Call Of Duty, 
 Brothers In Arms games are more squad based and this game is no different.
  
  The multiplayer modes also rock, you can play many game modes over Xbox Live.
  
  Hells Highway 
 is a new take on the genre and it works, impressive and gory we hope to see more like it, though 
 next time Ubisoft do something rather than WWII, War on Terror perhaps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze_adeel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms is the best ww2 first person shooter after "Call of Duty "
  
  awesome simply awwesome game frm graphics to gameplay. the duck in and shoot concept surely grows 
 on u.
  guns feel so much life like .u really feel the power of the guns. one thing that lacks in guns 
 is the variety u get only 4-5 types of guns. tommy guns is the best when u vl carry it the 1st time 
 in the game u will feel its power. sound effects r trumendous .guns give u different types of noises. 
 some glitches like some times the thing u take cover behind becomes blur.
  quite lengthy game worth ur time and $60 dollars .the 10 chapters r gud enough. iv u have nut played 
 "ROAD TO HILL30" and "EARNED IN BLOOD" u will be confused until the last two chapters .
  most of the enviroments differ sometime u battle in lush fields , churches, cities ,streets even 
 at a train station .
  THE story is the part where this game shines the most .iv u dont noe legett u wont find it interesting. 
 
  if u r a ww2 shooter its a must get .so go u guys and buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms Hell's Highway is the third installment in the Brothers In Arms series by Gearbox. 
 I'll admit, i bought road to hill 30, the original, and never finished it. I didn't enjoy the pacing 
 nor the bland graphics, so i didn't buy earned in blood when it came out merely a year later. But 
 three years after earned in blood Hell's Highway arrives. With mixed reviews ranging from low 7's 
 to 9's who is right?
  
  An opinion is an opinion that can't be wrong, but can be supported by facts and statements that 
 make one opinion more valid than another. Hells Highway is an excellent single player experience 
 that can compete with one of my all-time favorites, Bioshock.
  
  Hell's Highway has unique, rewarding, gameplay with a solid story that really kicks in toward the 
 end, and good, but not amazing, graphics and sound. The multiplayer may be a failure to a lot of 
 people, but it can also be a deep and rewarding experience like the single player if played correctly.
 
  
  Brothers In Arms has always been about being a squad leader of the 502nd airborne division during 
 World War 2. You control up to three very capable squads, each specializing in different forms 
 of offense. Assault for flanking, MG for suppression, Bazooka team for blowing the crap outta people, 
 you get the point.
  
  You as the squad leader get to tell them where to go and what to do. Each level allows for multiple 
 ways to defeat your enemies and this game can essentially be played as a real time strategy game 
 from your tactical map, which shows you enemy placements and cover.
  
  This is where Hells Highway truly shines. Sitting back and telling your MG team to move to x position 
 and suppress the enemy while telling your assault team to move to y position to flank the suppressed 
 enemy all while sitting back and watching them follow your commands is deeply rewarding. Of course 
 you can get into the thick of the action yourself, which you will, and the shooting mechanics are 
 just as solid as any other WW2 game. The addition of a cover system is gladly accepted and appreciated.
 
  
  Im not going to lie, the controls can be cumbersome. They arent horrible, but controlling your 
 squad could be easier and cover could have been done better a la rainbow six vegas 2. However, 
 you soon become used to the controls and it becomes less or a burden after the first level or two. 
 The controls get the job done, lets just put it that way.
  
  The levels manage to be varied, going from small towns and houses during the day to open fields 
 and pastures to barns at night to cities at night during the rain to inside buildings and such. 
 I appreciate when developers work hard to keep the experience fresh by varying level design and 
 looks and Hells Highway has done a good job.
  
  The graphics look very good, but noticeable things like 2d grass and flowers hold it back from 
 being amazing. Things like the 2d grass and flowers and texture pop in during cut scenes doesnt 
 take away from the overall look of the game or experience but it doesnt really allow the game to 
 truly shine like it could have. Nevertheless it still looks good as a whole.
  
  The sound is equally as good as the graphics. Gun shots, mortar fire, grenades and the like all 
 sound great. The music is standard brothers in arms/ band of brothers type affair, but it fits 
 and sounds good. Really the only downfall of sound is that friendly a. i. tend to yell the same 
 lines toward you a few too man times, and it becomes noticeable toward the last couple of hours 
 of the game. Not a game-breaking flaw, but one that could have easily been avoided.
  
  The story, as mentioned earlier, is excellent. It really shines toward the end, but again it could 
 have been better just like the graphics and sound. The facial animations during cut scenes are 
 virtually non-existent, and had valve taught gearbox a thing or two about facial animations from 
 say half life 2 the overall story for brothers in arms would have been much more emotional. Again 
 though, the story still is very good.
  
  In the end, the gameplay is phenomenal and perfectly implemented via good, varied, levels. The 
 sound, graphics, and story are all great, but could have been some of the best ever had it not 
 have been for some small annoyances. The single player experience lasts anywhere betweeen 10 and 
 12 hours, so this game is at the least worthy of a rental for it alone.
  
  Multiplayer however has been known to displease fans and newcomers. I will hardly defend it as 
 i can understand where the hate is coming from, maps are generic and bland since the graphics take 
 a downgrade in multiplayer. There is only one game mode and you only have one life. Nothing truly 
 makes this game special in the multiplayer department at first glance. Other games like rainbow 
 six vegas have done multiplayer better, so why play this one?
  
  There are 3 different squads in multiplayer, each with 3 people, you can choose between a specialist 
 who can carry a sniper, bazooka, or heavy machine gun or you can be a standard infantry man who 
 carries an m1 garande or thompson or you can be in the tank squad if youre on offense and you then 
 could drive a tank. There can be 10 people to a team so the last spot goes to the team leader who 
 is required to be a basic infantry person, but he can call in very weak airstrikes and the oh-so-effective 
 recon, which displays enemy positions.
  
  What makes this fun and enjoyable for me and my friends is that i play team leader, sit back in 
 our spawn or somewhere nearby, and call out enemy positions to my 3 squads. I essentially tell 
 them exactly where the enemy is using my tactical map and recon and they are able to outflank them 
 and we almost always win. I dont get into the thick of the action for half the round, but as squad 
 leader these tips really help out the entire team.
  
  If the game is played this way it's extremely fun. My entire team has headsets and we all cooperate, 
 calling out for help or pinpointing enemies and tanks, but if the game isnt played this way, which 
 normally with everyone else it's not, then it wont be fun. 
  
  The multiplayer wont stay populated for very long and may be a pushover for some people, but the 
 single player alone warrants this game at the very least a rental and who knows you may just end 
 up liking the multiplayer as well.
  
  For a great single player alone i would give this game it's well deserved 8.5 out of 10. The overall 
 experience is very good trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway is a good, but not great, game. This game is fun and is super addicting 
 but, there are a lot of problems that hold it back from being amazing.
  
  Graphics: For the most part, they're average. Some of the cutscenes look great. But, in some cutscenes, 
 for a second or 2, the graphics aren't fully loaded and it looks bad. Also, when you give commands, 
 your mouth doesn't move. A flaw that looks bad and looked bad even on last generation consoles, 
 a bad choice by Gearbox.
  
  Sound: The sound is one of the best parts of this game. Each gun has its own different sound and 
 they all sound relevant to the real thing. Also the music is very good. One of my favorite parts 
 of the game. 
  
  Gameplay: This game is pretty unusual. It is very tactical 1st /3rd person shooter, like Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. The whole point of the game is to use each of your squads to suppress and flank the 
 enemy. Over and over again. Really, that's most of the game. Its fun but it gets repetitive. To 
 mix up the gameplay a little, they throw in tank and solo missions, a nice addition to the regular 
 gameplay. Overall, its fun and addicting but very repetitive, rent it and see if you like it. If 
 you do, I'd say buy it. 
  
  Multiplayer: Not very good in this game. One game mode I believe and its not very fun. Haven't 
 played it much but I really didn't like it.
  
  Story: Another strong point in this game. The story is very cinematic and great, movie quality 
 in my opinion. I'm not big on game stories, but this one was too good to not pay attention to. 
 
  
  Replay Value: Not much here. Once since I beat it I haven't played it. Short but sweet story and 
 a bad multiplayer. Maybe in a couple days I'll give multiplayer another shot but, for now, I'm 
 done with this game.
  
  To conclude, this game is a fun and good game, but it doesn't stand out from any other game. This 
 game is a good filler until a new game comes out that you want. Once there's a demo, try it. If 
 you like it and think "I could play this for 8 hours.", go out and buy it, its fun but short lived. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  There are so many WWII games out there that no one could ever memorize them all. There are some 
 series which always brought something new to the table. Games like Medal of Honor, Call of Duty were 
 always considered to be the best in the genre. But a couple of years ago Ubisoft made Brothers in 
 Arms (BiA) . It was well received by the general public but I didn't like it much back then. BiA is 
 now at it's third game: Hell's Highway.
  Hell's Highway isn't really different from the other two games in the series. And for the fans, who 
 always enjoyed the new feeling and thrill the game had, everything is here too.
  The story want's to be grand but it just isn't, there aren't many FPS games with a good story. No 
 exception here but the cinematics are great. The characters are well done and the voice acting is 
 pretty good. On the other hand the drama which is more than apparent in this game can make you stop 
 playing the game as you feel nothing towards the story and characters. Speaking of characters, there 
 are a few from previous game which some of you will probably enjoy.
  The graphics are quite good, everything looks pretty good and the lightning effects are great. So 
 graphically the game looks good, somewhere near Battlefield Bad Company.
  The gameplay is the same from previous games. You take control of some soldiers and can give them 
 orders on what to do next, which enemy to attack, to hold their position and many more. Eventhough 
 the weapons aren't that great, you won't really mind as you won't be doing much shooting. If you 
 are used to ordinary FPS than this game will make you slow down and think a little before getting 
 outside of cover. This approach is different but it doesn't work for me.
  This is a great game for those who are fans of the series or like games like Rainbow Six Vegas 
 and such. For the rest it can be interesting but if you don't like this type of FPS than it's a 
 no no.
  
  My Score 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  When I first started up the game, I had high hopes for the experience. But after the second stage 
 (the first stage mostly being a tutorial and intro) I felt like throwing my controller. The controls 
 felt sticky and slightly over complicated. My squad mates seemed to enjoy running into incoming 
 fire instead of taking the obviously safer routes. But I persevered and continued on. By the end 
 of the third stage, I had figured out that with a certain amount of hand holding the AI squad members 
 could be effective in battle, and the controls where more than manageable with a little patience. 
 So I spent the next couple hours blasting on Nazi scum and enjoying the awesomeness that is the 
 action camera. It may seem a bit excessive, but I got a certine amount of satisfaction in seeing 
 a well placed head shot in slow motion splatter gore everywhere, or a devestating bazooka attack 
 send disembodied limbs fly this way and that. The stages came and went as stages do, and by the 
 end of the game the story had turned into the real prize of BIA. I really enjoyed the dialog and 
 the presentation felt very Band of Brother. The Cut scenes, while sometimes buggy with pop-ins, 
 where visually appealing. 
  I will not say that the game did not have its fair share of glitches. The controls took a bit to 
 get used to, and the AI could be suspect, and the cut scene pop-ins are just a little tiny bit 
 annoying. But if you can get past those minor issues (and in my opinion they are minor issues) 
 you may well be treated with a decent gaming experince, supported with a great story of human struggle 
 with the trials and hardships of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbronst
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  I am so disappointed with this game. The graphics are horrible, the gameplay is not too great, 
 the AI is flat out retarded sometimes, the voice acting is kinda embarrassing, the story is confusing, 
 and there's no effing melee. seriously. you sneak up on a soldier but you have to shoot him in 
 the back, which alerts the other soldiers. yeah thats always fun. 
  i'm just amazed at what happened to this game. i saw trailers and it looked amazing with a lot 
 of promise. in the end they just half-assed this game. I cant figure out how this game got such 
 good reviews from everyone and gamespot and how people say the graphics are amazing. WHAAT? the 
 leaves in trees are smudges. surfaces are blurry, some buildings are COMPLETELY EMPTY. no broken 
 chairs or tables or anything. what did the nazis need the broken chairs for something? and it is 
 so damn hard to hit someone. and before anyone says "thats cuz you suck" i dont haha. ive gotten 
 a kill cam headshot by randomly shooting at someone and when i tried to headshot him, i missed 
 4 times and then reloaded my garand? since when did garands reload midclip? good job cuz you guys 
 made other WW2 games right?
  The only thing left to say is dont believe the hype kids. traded this bad boy and got $20 for it. 
 thats ridiculous. I paid 60 and didnt even get half back 2 days after it came out.
  
  oh another thing, im reading other player's reviews and they are like "immersive, gripping, gorgeous", 
 etc etc. what the hell are they smoking? games from 2006 look better and play better and yet people 
 are giving this 10's. I got lost after the part where "Baker" for some reason had to attack a church. 
 it just threw me there after talking about driving jeeps. and then on that level, i killed every 
 nazi cuz my 1 team mate didnt help. every nazi on screen was dead and my team mate said "hold your 
 fire" while the AI squad behind me kept shooting at nothing for about 5 minutes. 
  10/10 my ass. this gets a 6. only fun thing was using the bazooka to rip apart nazis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnySN1P3R
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is the latest entry in Gearbox's series of World War 2 tactical 
 squad based shooters. Once again you are in the shoes of Matt Baker, except this time, instead 
 of fighting in Normandy, Gearbox is sending Baker to Holland to participate in Operation Market 
 Garden, the Allies doomed plan to capture key bridges across the Rhine river and punch right into 
 the Germany, too bad the Nazis best troops were in the way. Also returning are familiar old faces, 
 including, Hartsock, Corrion, Zanovich and Courtland. Mac also makes a return, solving the mystery 
 of what happened to him in Earned in Blood. That is the first problem in this game. One of the 
 underlying conflicts in this game concerns Matt Baker's pistol, many people in his squad believe 
 to be cursed since everyone has touched has died (including his father, Allan, Garnett and Legget) . 
 If this is your first BiA game, then you may be a bit confused as to whom those people are, as 
 most of them died in the first game. There is a cutscene at the beginning that will help some newcomers 
 but more may have been needed.
  
  As with the other games in the Brothers in Arms series, the single player is the true star of the 
 show. This is the best story in the series so far, it truly feels like an episode of Brothers in 
 Arms. Every character is memorable and the cutscenes are put together so well. The voice acting 
 is very impressive and well done. Matt Baker, with the deaths of men in his squad (particularly 
 Legget's death) are weighing on him heavily, and it shows. Many points in the game will have Baker 
 seeing Legget, or he will have flashbacks to his time in Normandy. These really make Baker feel 
 like a believable soldier and victim of the horrors of war. This is not to say the other characters 
 don't really matter. Whenever a man died in squad I couldn't help but restart the checkpoint to 
 make sure they got through the battle, that is how memorable they are. When one of the characters 
 gets paralyzed, and Matt has to tell him he is going home paralyzed, I really felt the sadness, 
 it was so palpable. This is a great game to show how VOs should be done.
  
  The graphics in this game are very impressive and realistic. After several days in conflict, the 
 men are dirty and unshaven which is a cool addition. Although the game does have some pop-up and 
 during cutscenes some of the textures pop in. With being so far into the next gen, you think they 
 would have fixed pop-up by now. Other than the occasional graphical glitches, they graphics are 
 great.
  
  The AI in this game is another great part about this game, but it still has its flaws. The enemies 
 are smarter this time around, and more than once I had to call upon my squad to bail me out. Your 
 teams battle chatter is fun to listen to, and indicates when the enemies fire is becoming too much. 
 The cover system works well and is a great addition to the game. The wood falls apart when bullets 
 pass through it, and sandbags are blown up by explosions. The AI does have its share of problems 
 though. More than once I had a teammate run out of cover and get shot. It's not as annoying as 
 when the AI will warp through cover and get shot and then warp back alive. If the devs release 
 a patch fixing this the AI would be close to perfect.
  
  Returning again to the game your assault team and fire team, and to survive Operation Market Garden, 
 you will need to rely on these heavily. As it says in the instruction manual, you need to learn 
 'The Four Fs: Find, Fix, Flank, Finish.' If you try to run and gun, you expect a bullet to come 
 your way real quick. The Base of Fire team is the team you will usually you use for suppressing 
 an enemy, then with your assault team, you will flank around and finish off the enemy. Now at your 
 disposal are several new fire teams. Now, you can get a Bazooka team and Machine Gun team. The 
 machine gun team is a superb team to use for suppressing and the Bazooka team is great for destroying 
 cover and getting those beloved Action Cameras. Action Cameras are the newest feature to Brothers 
 in Arms, whenever you get a headshot, or blow someone up, time slows down and the camera zooms 
 in so you can see it in all its 'glory.' Some might call this glorifying warfare, but I call it 
 awesome.
  
  This game also sports some multiplayer, but it is easy to see the focus was single player. But 
 by no means is the multiplayer not fun. You only have one game mode, a Call of Duty 4 style Search 
 and Destroy type game. The attackers have a designated flag carrier who must bring the flag to 
 one of two flags in the map, then the attackers must the defend the flag carrier while he raises 
 the flag. The defenders must try to stop the flag carrier. Every round you switch roles. While 
 playing the game there was a bit of lag, depends on the host. I didn't get to play every map, but 
 the ones I did play were fun. You can customize your character, albeit, not very much though. You 
 can also choose to get special weapons (sniper rifles, LMGs and rocket launchers) instead of the 
 normal selection and are able to drive tanks.
  
  Overall, this is a great game that should be played by anyone who plays World War 2 games, or any 
 shooter fan who is looking for a change of pace. I definitely recommend buying it and taking the 
 time to play it through. Here's hoping for a Brothers in Arms set during the Battle of The Bulge!
 
  
  9 our of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Monkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  After 3 years of waiting Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway has arrived. With a vengeance I might 
 add.
  
  This time around the boys of the 101st PiR are hitting the soil in Holland to punch through the 
 German lines and be home by Christmas.
  
  You assume the role of Sergeant Matthew Baker (BIA: H30) as he leads his Squad of men through hell. 
 This time with two new squads at your command you are fully armed to blast, shred and riddle the 
 Nazi invaders with bullets until it comes out their ears.
  
  The graphics this time around have been given a next Generation twist. The levels are beautifully 
 designed, and the character graphics have been given a visual upgrade. The lighting is spectacular 
 particularly in a mission where there is a thunderstorm in progress as you make your way through 
 the streets. 
  
  The gore system has been upgraded as well. In previous BIA games you could blow off a limb or two, 
 but in this installment grenades and artillery shred enemies to bits. limbs go flying off at the 
 joints, heads blow open, people get blown in half. And the slow motion action camera can make a 
 truly amazing kill stand out above the rest.
  
  The story is gripping and you can feel the pain as you lose men. At the end of the game there is 
 an emotional moment that will make you feel very sad if you find yourself getting attached to the 
 characters. You will laugh as well as the soldiers joke with each other. If you are reading this 
 review and have yet to play the game keep your attention on Corporal Paddock during the cutscenes 
 as he really makes them funny (EG- Writing Bullet magnet on the hood of a Jeep) .
  
  The negatives are there but are far outweighed by the positives. Sometimes your squad mates will 
 ignore your commands, they will not shoot in the direction you tell them to, they sometimes freeze 
 up and get stuck in walls and have a nasty habit of running out in the open in the middle of a 
 firefight instead of pathfinding a safe way to the next bit of cover. This problem can be fixed 
 with just a little more micromanagement of your squad (eg: moving them along cover manually to 
 the destination)
  
  All in all BIA Hell's Highway is the best in the series bar none. Now all we need to do is wait 
 for BIA 4. Bastogne here we come!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elchickendeluxe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 7.0
  
  If i could only choose one area where this game really lacks, it would be the graphics. The graphics 
 have teh same grainy, unpolished feel that we saw in Battlefield: Bad Company.
  This lack of graphics results in me not being able to say that this is one of the most immersive 
 games i have ever played.
  
  
  
  Audio - 9.0
  
  Great soundings guns and other great sound effects help this game to really draw you in and make 
 you feel as if you were actually in a war.
  
  
  Game-play - 9.7
  
  Unlike a lot of other war games, this one comes with a great cover system, and the addition of 
 a third person camera view when behind cover is great.
  
  Commanding multiple squads to lead attacks and supress Germans is both simple and easy, With the 
 only problem being that it might be a little too simple.
  
  The defualt controls in this game for me where pretty unbearable, But i was saved when i found 
 the "Tour of Duty" control setting, which is basiclly call of duty controls.
  
  The action cam is also a great addition and helps to bring you into the game.
  
  
  Longevity 
 - 7.5
  This Game is Fairly short, But replaying levels on different difficulties plus the addition of 
 multiplayer could keep you in the game for a while longer then you might expect
  
  
  Story - 7.0
  I didn't really get the story to much, It was pretty much a whole lot of random 
 crap with a cliche ending thrown in. The game also features very lengthy cutscenes, With no option 
 to skip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will_KutyerKawk
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  A solid game but nothing innovative. The strong points of the game come from its looks and sounds. 
 The graphics are bright and crisp in both the cut scenes and the game play. They use a zoom slash 
 slow mo "Action Camera" shot at times that a pretty cool. The surround sound on a 5.1 system is 
 great. Explosions make the room shake and environmental sounds give you a real sense of the action 
 going on all around you. The game play is entertaining but familiar. It would fit right in a Call 
 Of Duty family reunion. It tries to be different then other WWII games in its storyline, but that's 
 it. I was expecting more after benchmarks like COD 4 and Battlefield Bad Company. Destructible 
 environments should mean more than wooden fences and barrels. Trees, buildings and barriers should 
 all be destroyed when a grenade or bazooka hit them. The weapons are old and boring when compared 
 to today's tools of destruction. The missions all feel the same, moving from point a to b. You 
 do have the option of using squad commands to try a different approach, but it is not required. 
 Let's hope that the next Call of Duty does not feel the same. Maybe WWII has just been done too 
 many times. Brothers in Arms is not a bad game. It's just not an exciting game. Good effort, but 
 a game can not just be pretty to look at. If you still like the WWII atmosphere this is a game 
 you should check out. If your looking for a great new FPS I would wait for FarCry2 or Gears of 
 War 2 coming out in the next months 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  As a person that played and enjoyed the Call of Duty series, and then played a slew of the other 
 mediocre World War II shooters, I wasn't sure what to expect from Hell's Highway. I haven't played 
 the two PC-based prequels, either, so I was assuming nothing going in.
  
  Also, I'm generally terrible at the more frenetic run-n-gun shooters -- if I can't plod along and 
 make strategic moves, and I'm required to do quick aim/twitch shootouts on the run, I get flustered 
 and annoyed and ultimately give up.
  
  I'm pleased to say that BiA: HH seems to focus on the strategy element of battle, without losing 
 any of the intensity and drama of an FPS firefight. 
  
  It combines fairly intelligent AI-based teammates (which you can command a-la CoD4) with your own 
 ability to take effective cover, flank while your teammates provide cover fire, and gives you that 
 satisfying buzz as you slowly pluck away at the enemy's numbers, and you actually see them losing 
 confidence, hole-up and fall-back as you get the upper hand. Combat is very satisfying, and requires 
 some thinking and a bit of planning, but still keeps a sense of live urgency as you can't wait 
 around forever -- enemies will try to advance if you're not suppressing them, or they'll try to 
 team-up and gang-up on you and your guys.
  
  The graphics are very good, in general, but suffer from occasional frame rate, "tearing", and popping-textures 
 as the game tries to cram a lot of animation on screen in some scenes. Shadows can give away you 
 and your enemies' positions, and you can shoot through and destruct a lot of the scenery. It provides 
 a nice "living" environment in which to do battle.
  
  The audio is quite good, with top-notch voice acting, stirring orchestral music, and nice use of 
 ambient audio during missions.
  
  There's a lot of disc activity as you play, so if you play close to your console, you'll hear it 
 grinding away as you go, which reduces load times, though. (It will be REALLY nice when Microsoft 
 releases the November update and we can install the whole game to the hard drive!)
  
  Missions are nicely sliced into a lot of smaller goals (meaning: lots of checkpoints so you won't 
 have to replay much when you die, and you'll die... unlike other shooters, a pop in the head or 
 chest from a Nazi because you were walking across an open field, and you're dead instantly...) . 
 Your teammates AI seems pretty good, as they'll seek cover, retreat, use grenades fairly well, 
 etc. Occasionally when ordered to stay close, they'll wander into fire trying to get back to you, 
 but overall it's well done.
  
  So in a nutshell -- if you like WWII shooters with a little more of a tactical tilt, this is a 
 great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linusoscar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  8.5 is a fair rating to give BIA Hells Highway. I have read both sides of the reviews good and 
 bad before I laid down my hard earned money for this game. Both sides have valid points.
  The Bad side: I've read reviews that the textures can be glitchy and under developed, the story 
 is convoluted, the AI is faulty and the games controls clunky. This is true to a certain extent. 
 However you can easily get past these quirks, like I said, if you are a fan of this series or the 
 genre. One Issue I also noticed myself is that you can ony sprint in a straight line unable to 
 look side to side as you run like you can in Gears of War. This is a little disappointing at first, 
 but if you think about realistically if you were in a real firefight you would run and focus on 
 the cover you are trying to reach first.
  The Good side:
  Voice acting, sound fx, sound track, cut scenes are all great and help suck you into the game. When 
 your team commands work they work well and it is totally satisfying seeing your bazooka team take 
 out an MG emplacement from the opposite side of the battle field while you flank round. The slow 
 mo camera on head shots and explosions are less "realistic" and more "video game esk" but you'll 
 find yourself hooting when they happen.
  I would highly suggest picking this game up if you are a fan of this series and if you are into 
 WW2 in general. I'm having a ton of fun playing it and I know you will too. If you are still a 
 skeptic, go rent it... nothing's stopping you from giving BIA Hells Highway a test drive!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  Brothers in arms hells highway is yet another World war 2 shooter in an already crowded field but 
 gearbox have the next gen systems this time around so if your worried your buying another WW2 shooter 
 that does nothing new then you missing out.
  
  
  Story
  
  This is the only BIA i have played so i don't know much about what happened before so im going 
 to just say that the story is emotional and keeps you interested from start to finish. You play 
 through a pretty lenghy campaign that has nice sized levels that are challenging and are unique 
 so what does BIA HH offer that makes it worth your time? Well theres the cover system its pretty 
 amazing and without it you would be pretty much dead because this game requires patience and a 
 good bit of skill if you play through on veteran difficulty. Thr characters in BIA are very likeable 
 and bring humour at times that your not expecting and the weird thing is you start to care about 
 them and thats a first for me in video games. The locations you fight in are authentic and really 
 justify the title HELLS HIGHWAY but what about the tactics now in BIA you need them or your dead 
 so if you tell your squad to run at the enemy you are left on your own or if you tell them to get 
 closer then you progress much better and don't lose team mates.
  
  The graphics in BIA are at times very nice baker looks very real when you are behind cover and 
 some buildings are very detailed however you will run into bad textures and the frame rate can 
 drop now and then but overall it looks nice and has realistic detailed character models.
  
  Multiplayer
  Honestly why did gearbox included MP when its obvious it was tacked on look at bioshock 
 no MP but a fantastic SP that got the odd 10/10 and the graphics in BIA mp has been downgraded 
 probaly for the amount of players.
  
  The good 
  Fantastic deep SP
  excellent characters that you care about
  may be WW2 again but its so worth the money for the 
 SP
  a lenghy single player
  
  the bad
  Some framerate hickups 
  some bad textures
  Tacked on MP
  
  Verdict
  Brothers in arm hells highway has one of my favourite single players 
 this GEN it looks great it pulls you in its just a shame they added on a poor MP.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morechebba
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  this game is a nice change from your normal ww2 shooter. its squad based so if your in to run and 
 gun style shooters you best stick to call of duty. this is the thrid game in the series and my first 
 exsperiance of bros in arms but if like me your new to the story the game does a half decent job 
 of telling you what has come to pass in the first two games its very cinematic. i realy cant say 
 enougth good things about this game its squad based gun play feels very freash. it wont take you 
 long to finish but once you have you unlock the aurthentic difficulty setting which strips away 
 all on screen huds including your crosshairs which makes it very challanging so theres plenty of 
 replay value to be had plus there are recon spots and kilroys to be found on each map 3 on each 
 so that will keep you searching with achievements to reward you. so dont delay go buy today .trust 
 me you wont regret it. if you fancy a game of capture online send me an invite in game on xbl.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juan2370
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Generally speaking , it's a good game !! but the game play is not as exciting as E. I. B. or R. T. H 
 , I would say if E. I. B. were made in the same Graphic , it would be more fun comparing to Hell's 
 highway !! 
  
  Other thing, almost every B. I. A. fan love it's special control interface , but we don't see something 
 new in this one.... If GearBox can combine some control of "Spectrum Worriar- Ten Hammer" with the 
 current content , It would be the best one !! Hope we might able to see more special control in 
 next B. I. A. Series !! 
  
  Co-op game in Multi-play mode is the best part of E. I. B, but how sad this does not come out in 
 this one !! kind of disappointed , anyway I think it still deserve rating with 8.5 !! I am so far 
 enjoyed this new one !! 
  
  If you experienced "Road to Hill 30" and "Earn in Blood" , of course you don't want to miss this 
 one !! If you don't have any one of the old version. You got to give yourself a chance to Join 
 us , being one of the brothers !! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Althought BIA: HH is another WWII installment it brings and incredible story blended with great 
 tactical game play. However there are some bugs such as Friendly AI glitches, and online that hold 
 it back. 
  
  The Good: 
  
  Great graphics that bring a person as close as possible to the brutality and intensity of WWII. 
 The Slow mow camera when exploding and enemy or on a headshot show some of the best gore seen to 
 date.
  
  Tactical Gameplay and cover system makes the player feel like he is more of war senerio. The average 
 FPS makes a person feel like he's alone on the battle field with AI who do not contribute. However 
 in BIA your sqaud mates contribute to the battle and their loses are felt when they fall on the 
 battle field. Controlling multiple teams allows for great flanking manuevers and variables in approaches 
 to accomplishing missions.
  
  Sound effects are tremendous, with a solid sound system the base from explosions and screams of 
 soulders hit you like a sledge hammer. Voice acting is well done by it sounds and looks like Matt 
 baker is actually giving voice commands in the heat of battle. Your sqaud mates also give feedback 
 and re act to your orders, the stress in their voices when complaining about not manuevering and 
 how their sitting ducks in this area sounds real along with their statements about "jerry". Also 
 during cutscenes lips of charecters follow words very well. 
  
  Incredible story, in the continuation of the sage, more is revealed about charecters, for instance 
 the protaganist, matt bakers sucombin to stress of battle and how guilt of past occurences is effecting 
 him. 
  
  The bad:
  
  There are some texture problems for instance during cutscenes some textures on vegation, furniture, 
 most often wood emplacements looks odd, and then often shift to look like it fits, its hard to 
 explain until seen.
  
  Their are not enough german guns in the game, their are the conventional MP40's and MG42's, Kraq's 
 and they do not nessaricly stack up to the arsenal of allied weapons. Also, there are a lack of 
 Demolitions guns to use, you can comand a bazooka sqaud, but twice through hte game i have not 
 been able to encounter or use Panzerfaust or bazooka.
  
  Cover system is kinda stick and takes some time to get use to but isnt incredibly bad, just can 
 be improved.
  
  Multiplayer can seem thrown together. but isnt nessaricly a huge concern considering the campaign 
 is more of a draw than the pontential of MP. 
  
  No beatdown? its rare i know in a real battle wich it is depicting to come to hand to hand combat, 
 however the addition of a feirce knife battles would have been decent. 
  
  Tanks battles could have been more intense, istead of a solo tank, it would have been nice to command 
 a unit.
  
  Its odd how wooden cover can be destroyed excpet when it is bundled 2 by fours, and how bullets 
 go through wood but not couches or thin walls. 
  
  More agressive enemy AI would be nice, but still not nessasairy. 
  
  
  Conclusion:
  
 
  This game is a incredible experience, and the realization that people actually experienced such 
 horrors of war and percivered is a testament to human endurance. This game bring a great blend 
 of Story/gameplay/graphics to a diminishing genre. However there are a couple drawback such of 
 limited arsenal, texture issues. Some of things I listed are more recomendations than bad things 
 that are missing. The good cast a enormous shadow over the poor qaulities and this game is a must 
 check out for fall 2008, the shame is due to its gengre many will turn the other cheek. Thus, this 
 game gets a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyMP153rd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Storyline is solid, and the squad command control is very easy to get used to. Graphics and sound 
 are top notch, and the Semi destructible enviroment is nice as well. The only problem i have with 
 the game is that the controls seem sluggish sometimes.. feels like your moving to slow, or you 
 can't get the character moving in the right direction with urgency. another problem i have is that 
 you can't aim down the sights while "Dug in." feels like the B n A team went all out to make it 
 authentic, but i doubt there were cross hairs floating in the air in WW2. i like to use the sights, 
 but since you can't do that while dug in, i'm forced leave the dig in feature exposing me more 
 to fire. it gets frustrating getting picked off cuz i can't dig in fast enough after popping off 
 a few head shot attempts.
  
  Overall though i definately would recommend this game... it has a lengthy campaign, and is once 
 again a breath of fresh air from the conventional WW2 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomyDoomDoom
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  "Oh yee of little faith" - This is what I found saying to myself several missions into Gearbox's 
 latest installment of Brothers In Arms. The previous two games I have slated and despised for their 
 obvious lack of AI, challening gameplay and replay value. I feared the same for this version - 
 as explained to a previous colleague.
  
  Myself and my co-worker had often traded blows about the previous two BIA games, either side stating 
 the pros & cons of each title. I would explain that just trying to find out where an enemy was 
 you would often have to pause the game instead of looking upon the battlefield and decideding straight 
 away - his retort would often be a simple, **** off". I told him of the weak enemy intelligence, 
 stating - "If you have this prior knowledge of the area then surely you would know the position 
 your attacker would be advancing from and immediatly take up a counter posistion?". Again with 
 the **** off".
  
  These were my two biggest gripes with the previous two outings of what is an ambitious premise 
 for a game. Authentic settings? Authentic combat? Authentic anything?! What world war 2 buff gamer 
 wouldn't want that? As opposed to CoD your squad mates actually kill the Germans! They don't just 
 run around waiting to be shot, sticking you in that Private Ryan kind of environment. They're intelligent, 
 they're smart...... they're walking into a tank's line of fire. Another gripe, (earned in blood 
 right there, I hate the tanks in that game) .
  
  I suppose I digress somewhat, after all this blog is supposed to be about the latest iteration 
 of world war 2 gaming. First off, I should say, that once the real stuff gets going is when it 
 gets good. That's probably an understatement. If your playing the game in HD with a surround setting 
 then it is beyond brilliant - you actually play, ney live through the chaos of the battlefields 
 thrown in front of you. Mistakes may come often, yet you'll often find it's because you ordered 
 a team to move to a position rather than suppress them - more often than not because you yourself 
 are under fire from some obscure yet obvious enemy. The challenge of the previous two games was 
 to get your squad mates through the battle unscathed - and there should be a major achievement 
 for it here.
  
  Point in question is the Hell's Highway mission. Scouting ahead as far as you can go to work out 
 the enemy positions isn't enough, they're on you like a **** The canal/bridge part is the best 
 example of this. It was upon reaching the train station in this chapter that my only gripe with 
 this game came into fruition.
  
  Legget. The kid. The ghosts. A chapter or two before I was walking under a bombed out house in 
 Eindhoven and I was suddenly transported into F. E. A. R. The Baker traumatic-disorder is way to over 
 done, to an extent. In a game like this, in which you have several different environments/situations 
 and emotions to build upon - and considering the previous two games, (Baker and then Hartsock) 
 - why not play from the view point of both these characters? One, at first, viewing the others 
 actions - and then later on viewing from the seconds point of view, (along the same time line) ?
 
  
  In a continuity sense, it would be much better for this kind of format for a third installment 
 - considering the way Hell's Highway pans out, (the prospect of the battle of the bulge) , to carry 
 on this theme into the next game with Corrion replacing Hartsock in the other role - possibly proving 
 his worth as a squad leader.
  
  To some up - I dare say Brothers in Arms is one of the best shooters on the 360 - however, what 
 it lent from Band of Brothers, in terms of feel and story, in previous titles has sorely been missed. 
 The lack of this squad based story is it's only really downfall, (if you excuse the graphic/texture 
 'glitches', and sound glitches - a grenade going off sounds the same as an 88 impact?!) - but, 
 if you are looking for a game in which thinking under pressure is what turns you on, and gore... lot's 
 of gore, then this is for you. Even if you don't know what is going on story wise, go pick up the 
 other games and give them a whirl - and compare.
  
  9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopez5045
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  THE SAME OLD (GREAT) BROTHERS IN ARMS UPGRADED TO DATE. WITH
  A LITTLE OF RAINBOW SIX THIRD PERSON COVER SHOOT SYSTEM.
  
  I LIKE IT WHEN THE CAMERA SLOWS 
 DOWN WHEN YOU PULL OFF HEAD SHOTS OR GRENADES TAKE OUT MULTIPLE OPPONENTS.
  
  GAME PLAY/GUN PLAY IS VERY REALISTIC W RECOIL AND GOOD SOUND. AND ANIMATION.
  
  STORY SO FAR 
 IS GOOD .
  
  THE ONLY THING I THING THEY COULD HAVE DONE W/OUT IS THOSE AREAS WHEN YOU GO BY YOUR SELF INSIDE 
 BUILDINGS
  CHASING ANOTHER AI CHARACTER..
  
  THIS GAME IN MY OPINION IS THE EQUIVALENT OF COD4 SET IN A WW2 SETTING. VERY ENJOYABLE/REALISTIC. 
 
  
  EXECEPT THAT IS LESS LINEAR THAN COD4 .YOU ACTUALLY HAVE DIFFERENT PATHWAYS TO YOUR ENEMY FLANKS 
 .AND YOU ACCTUALY
  COMMAND MORE THAN ONE SQUAD THAT THEIR AI IS VERY GOOD.
  I WOULD SAY SAME IF NOT BETTER THAN THE FIRST GAMES.
  
  IF YOU WANT A WW2 SHOOTER AND DONT 
 KNOW FROM ALL THE ONCE OUT THERE PICK THIS ONE... WONT REGRET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4M203
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hells Highway, the third installment into the critically acclaimed shooter and 
 it (SP) only gets better.
  
  This time around we see new features introduced into HH, like the third person cover system which 
 really gives you a lot more options tactically to command your men. Other new features are the 
 slow mo action camera and the addition of new fire teams. The slow mo action cameras can be a load 
 of fun, but may get boring after a while. A slow mo action camera happens when you get a good headshot 
 or set of a good explosion, the camera will then zoom in on the enemy showing the gory even in 
 slow motion. Now, onto the new fire teams, in HH you will now be able to control a MG team and 
 a bazooka team, both with loads of fun and it adds to more tactical advantages under your command.
 
  
  The best part of the game isn't the features I mentioned above, it is the story. HH has plenty 
 of cut scenes to keep you up with the story and even has a "previously on brothers in arms" segment 
 which catches you up to the overall story and past games. The story has you playing as Matt Baker 
 trying to survive Operation Market Garden, and, well, not going insane. Can Baker and his squad 
 make it? Why don't you go find out!
  
  The graphics for the most part are very solid, but there tend to be lack of details and textures 
 in certain parts of the game, both cut scenes and gameplay.
  
  The sound is very well done and never gets old. I reccommend you get a solid surround sound system 
 before playing this game. The guns, voice chatter, explosions, all sound phenomenal. Perhaps one 
 of the best sounds in any video game to date.
  
  Now, the multiplayer, I can see why Gearbox has been hiding this. The graphics in the online are 
 very toned down and it seems as if it is still in alpha stage. The gameplay still can be fun, but 
 with the lack of a party system it is hard to play with your friends. There is only one game mode, 
 therefore it can get boring very quickly, also with only 6 maps. I expected more from MP for a 
 game that has been in development for so long. I expect BIG things in BIA4 regarding to MP.
  
  Still, with OK multiplyer the single player is let a lone a good reason to pick this game up. 
 Overall I give HH a 9 out of 10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I've been playing FPS games for a long time, and for most of it, I've also been playing WWII games. 
 As such, I like to think I know a good WWII FPS game when I see it.
  I had only had a few tastes of the Brothers In Arms series before, from Road to Hill 30. I'd heard 
 alot of good things about it, but I, if I'm honest, hated it. I hated the gameplay, I hated the 
 graphics, everything about it.
  From some of the earlier videos, Hell's Highway didn't look like too greater game either, but I 
 still wanted to play it due to the fact I am a fan of the Band of Brothers Series. Then, a month 
 or so before release, I checked out some more videos, and it had turned into a decent looking game.
 
  On release day, I went and picked up my copy during a break at college, went home, and played 
 the first couple of levels. Immediately, I fell in love with it. The graphics looked surprisingly 
 crisp, alot better than I expected, although slightly flawed. For example, the player's mouth doesn't 
 move in third person mode when shouting orders, but as a whole, the graphics are pretty damn good.
 
  The fighting is at times incredibly hectic, creating epic firefights that can last for surprisingly 
 long amounts of time. The suppression system is excellent, giving you the choice to suppress the 
 enemy, which makes them harder to kill, but lowers the chance of dying, or to let them remain un-suppressed, 
 giving yourself a bigger target to shoot in the process.
  Every now and again, with a perfectly aimed shot or grenade, the game slows down, to show your 
 target taking a bullet right in the face, or show them being blown apart by well thrown grenade.
 
  And one problem I had while playing through Vegas 2, was my tendency to just "Lone Wolf" some 
 missions. Hell's Highway on the other hand, has me using my teams all the time, to help force my 
 way through the enemies.
  One thing I dislike about some of the WWII Call of Duty games, is how enemies are pretty much infinite, 
 stopping only when you push forward to a certain point, which took away some of the realism. In 
 BiA, you don't need to charge into oncoming bullets just to stop the flow of enemies.
  
  The story isn't the best, but it's still pretty good. There's a fairly linear story, but there 
 seems to be a series of flashbacks including a character known as "Kevin", which I gotta say, was 
 fairly confusing, as the change between past and present was instant most of the time, and it failed 
 to flow well.
  The characters also seem fairly bland. From my team of men, I can probably only name about 1/3 
 of them, if that. When it comes up at the side of your screen that someones been shot, you don't 
 feel at all sad that your mans down, as you just didn't know who they were in the first place. 
 And you can be fairly sure, come the next completed objective, they'll be back on their feet anyway.
 
  
  It's a brilliant game, one I highly recommend to anyone, even if your not usually a fan of WWII 
 games, and prefer more modern shooters, I'd still give this title a try. Whether or not it will 
 match Call of Duty 5 remains to be seen, but, in my opinion anyway, it beats Call of Duty 4 hands 
 down.
  What it lacks in story and character depth, it more than makes up for with its brilliant squad 
 control, brilliant gameplay, and epic firefights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXGIxxJesusXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  BiA: Hell's Highway can be compared to Call of Duty 3, or the Medal of Honor series. I'll just 
 flat out say it, if you were not able to controll your squads, I would have taken the game back 
 and called it a failure. That is, until I joined a game in multiplayer. Multiplayer is fun, addicting, 
 and can easly kill 2-6 hours of your day! I beat the story mode on casual in 2 days, and beat it 
 on veteran in another 2 days. I am currently on the thrird last chapter on authentic mode and am 
 still loving story mode. I don't care who you are, if you throw a grenade and it goes to slow-mo 
 and you see someones legs and arms detach from their body, it's a good game!
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabi360
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  no comment just i say its a masterpiece. i m little disappoint because i wait too much for release 
 date but now its all right because i enjoy the game. sorry for my English. i learn from games. the 
 brother in arms hell highway its great but im afraid i wait too much for the next brother in arms. my 
 score is 10 but i give 10 for a good reason. i m not a occasional gamer and i now when a game its 
 good, really good. its my first comment but i now its horrible. for all gamers enjoy the game its 
 super cool and remained awry body the painful world war 2. i really live the game its a time machine. thanks 
 game spot for all email. talking about the game. a great story, the action is amazing, your tropes 
 is smart. now its ok? thanks. oh its very hard i must learn English. i writhe this in one hour. please 
 register my score. i promise next time i writhe whit outside help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Even if we had to wait a whole-hearty two years after it was projected to come out, it was worth 
 it. I honestly couldn't contain my excitement as it neared September, and then as it neared the 
 release date. As I popped in the game and saw the opening credits and heard the song, I got a little 
 giddy. 
  
  Campaign- Best of the series and what this entire game was made for. From the gore to the dialogue, 
 the game did not diminish in it's luster. There were a few dialogue spots that just made you think, 
 "that's a little silly" or "wow, give me better voiceovers," but nothing to the point of disliking 
 the entire dialogue. When you eventually get to the end of the game, it is a supreme tear jerker. 
 I've never ever teared up over a storyline in a game, until now. There's just a part in it that 
 just tugs at every tear, but this is only because it's true. Had it not been true, maybe it wouldn't 
 have been such a touching moment. The moments of Baker's flashbacks are a little frightening at 
 how dark they are. It just makes you wonder how many people actually endured the torment of trauma 
 during the war, both Germans and Allies. Nevertheless, the blood and gore introduced into the game 
 definitely made it what it is. I remember watching a webdoc on it and one of the lead designers 
 had stated that they weren't looking to make the deaths pretty and glamorous like most shooting 
 games do. They wanted to show what would really happen if a grenade or bazooka round landed or 
 hit beside you. Needless to say, it's very rewarding to see a guy blown in half in slow motion 
 after you threw a grenade into their little pow-wow. 
  
  Multiplayer- I don't have too many good things to say about this, but the game wasn't really made 
 for this part. With only one gametype to play, it wasn't very fulfilling. The squad leader feature 
 was kinda neat, but you didn't really get to do too much with it other than calling an air strike 
 or directing waypoints that hardly many people paid much attention too. Outside of this, the lag 
 was depressing. I played many games of 10v10 and it was just like asking for lag. But hey, I kept 
 in mind that the campaign made up for it.
  
  Campaign- A very hearty 10/10.
  Multiplayer- A disappointing yet decent 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanT001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I paid 15.99 for this game, having played it I would HAVE paid 40 if required. 
  
  Case & Packaging:
  
  The version I have got is the "Steel book case with plastic sleeve" I 
 must note that the plastic sleeve is the only part that has ANY Xbox 360 markings on it! all the 
 case has is the Xbox seal.
  
  I think this is a universal case made for all console releases with the plastic sleeve for each 
 console.
  
  Single Player:
  
  The view and feel of the game are rather good, the guns look nice compared to other games I have 
 played, they sound rather good, The Action Camera is a good on this that is If you like a close 
 up of someone's leg getting blown off with a Grenade, or watching someone's face get blown to bits 
 from a M1 Garand bullet.
  
  Achievements:
  
  These are quite easy to get if I must say so, I have got 305 Gamer Score on this in a matter of 
 4-5 hours! I the action Camera is funniest to get but some are annoying such as:
  
  "While connected to Xbox LIVE, play the game for once a day for 100 days"
  
  Go on: http://www. xbox360achievements. org/game/brothers-in-arms-hells-highway/achievements/
 
  
  If you want a list of them that is.
  
  Online Game Play:
  
  I have not been able to play online yet, due to Xbox Live being down for 24hours but I have been 
 told it rather laggy. (WILL UPDATE WHEN XBL WORKS) 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you LIKE WW2 shooters then this is the game for you! Well until COD5 comes out.
  
  Missions: 
 are ok to play through (I have got it on Casual; Take the mick if you want)
  
  Guns: Sound good. Look good and they do their Digital Job, they kill Germans or allies (ONLINE 
 when you are German) .
  
  Offline: Looks and feels good the towns are full of Germans to shoot unless they see you first 
 then ouch.
  
  Online: Not played yet but I have been told it is laggy but I do know it involves something called 
 TEAM-WORK! So help your fellow Xbox (ers) out. 
  
  Operation Market Garden might have been a failure in real life but on here we get to hopefully 
 change the outcome (Not real life... Unless anyone got a time-machine and lots of modern GUNS and 
 maybe a couple of NUKES)
  
  Loss of quality, The graphics aren't as good online.... Because Gearbox didn't make the online) RockStar 
 New England did (If you want Proof In the Game Manual in the credits, Look for Multiplayer... RockStar 
 New England) The online is STILL good I must admit 
  
  (I'm going by YouTube videos, Xbox Live still not back on yet 30/09/08 01:38-GMT)
  
  Pro's 
 and Con's
  
  Pros
  
  Good Story
  Powerful Weapons (tanks included which you can use)
  Good friendly AI (unlike COD4, sorry COD, 
 great game)
  Ok Achievements
  Funny Moments (Action Camera)
  Very Bloody (Action Camera shows it all)
  Great cut scenes (Little Spooky)
  
  Cons
  
 
  Laggy Online (FIX IT GEARBOX)
  Little Buggy (AI vanishing into walls, Full Auto KAR98K)
  Online takes a little downgrade 
  
  One Last Thing......
  
  Get this game you will enjoy 
 it, Missions are better than COD4 and if you like WW2 games then you will love this one! 
  
  See you online:
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is not like medal of honor or any previous call of duty game, this game bring to us a 
 lot of material not only to play.
  Since I start to play this game, I knew this franchise was special, I start to see the drama of 
 the war, this game is not the typical shooter of WWII where you have to shoot all the Germans.
 
  The game is goob because it have thta humor that you hear is WWII movies.
  This game is more tactic and is better than the others for some reasons.
  
  1: The Drama you 
 see the horror of war in this game like I say is not like the others because you fell more and 
 you feel sorrow for the characters.
  
  2: The tactics are the best you manage a squadron or two, that makes the game better and realistic.
 
  
  3: The game id like a movie and that worth a lot for me.
  
  In conclusion this game is the one you most play to see the other face of the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halowarrior_117
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Simply amazing. I've played Hill 30 and earned in blood (but didn't complete it) . The landscaping 
 and detail is fantastic and the weapons sound and feel authentic. The AI is amazing. If you don't 
 flank them or suppress them they will come out and kill you. your team AI is great but has a couple 
 of flaws but they get fixed when they realize they are being shot. The controls fit with the gameplay. 
 Its easy to get a hang of the squad orders. Honestly I love using the bazooka team. Seeing Nazis 
 getting blown to pieces is always fun. The game itself feels fun. the action is fast paced and weapons 
 can change the whole battle. As well as the your commands. There are different ways to win a battle. 
 And depending on the environment some are good tactics and some are bad.
  The Story fits in with the other 2 games perfectly. And it's also one reason I bought the game. 
 As Matt Baker seems to be going mad and I'm not going to say more. If you want to know more play 
 the game and find out. And just like a good game it leaves me at a point where I keep wondering 
 "What Happens After This" or "WHY DO YOU TORTURE ME WITH THIS UNFORGIVING ENDING?!?". Right now 
 I'm biting my nails wondering "will this be the end or the beginning of a new game?" Only time 
 will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely 
 best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its 
 a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely 
 best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its 
 a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely 
 best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its 
 a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely 
 best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_halo_king
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS 
 GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOTHIS GAME 
 IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELTHIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY 
 GOOD IEVABLY GOOD OD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS 
 UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABTHIS 
 GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD LY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD 
 THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS 
 GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME 
 IS UNBELIETHIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD VABLY GOOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashkan_pyro
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  what can i say nothing epic bad graphics boring gameplay same world war 2 stuff and the worst part 
 is the story. the only thing is new is the story and it's not worth watching. these guy's were working 
 on this game for too long and now nothing new!? at least if they want to make a ww2 game (that there 
 is two thousand of them) they must put something new in it. so boring. i played it for two hours and 
 the same thing level after level. for game like this if there were a character that people like 
 it would be something but there isn't and they copied the orginal BIA (that was boring as well) 
 with ps2 graphics even i could do that  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooch37
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  This game has an immersive story and fantastic gameplay. The graphics are good, but not the best 
 i have seen. The biggest complaint i have is the uniforms. they dont look even close to as realistic 
 as other shooters (COD4) . There is poor depth with magazine pouches and LBV gear, and the divisional, 
 rank, and american flag patches look like crap. Even in the cutscenes the graphics dont really 
 improve much from the gameplay. i think this game would have been much more impressive if it had 
 been released over a year ago when it was schedualed. It just doesnt blow me away in this post 
 COD4 world. Hopefully when ubi releases anouther sequal it will be a true showstopper in all areas. 
 But if the next gaem stayes in the same timeline i guess we will have to wait untill 2010 to see 
 if they can get the series back to the shock and awe' status that it heald on the original xbox 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleach190
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is far from perfect, but it also far from unplayable. Regardless of the fact that it 
 is "Just anohter WWII shooter", BIA: HH brings some new mechanics to the WWII genre. The cover feature, 
 although not perfectly executed, makes the series become a cross between RB6 and CoD. The graphics 
 are quite amazing, but has its hiccups at times, and the cutsceans are top-notch. Multiplayer is 
 great so long as your team works together as intended by the developers. You simply cannot bash 
 this game's multiplayer just because you can't play it like CoD, and thats mainly because ITS NOT 
 CALL OF DUTY. Truthfully, with a much needed patch to fix the major bugs and glitches, people will 
 take a whole new look at this game. 
  
  Please note that if you have not played either of the two previous games in the series the story 
 line will not make ant sense. Anf that is the only reason i would find trouble recommending this 
 game to others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caboose84
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is just plane fun, its easy to pick up and play, it offers great controlls, beuatiful 
 graphics, decent A. I., oh, and a pretty good story.
  I love squad based tactical shooters, and im a long time fan of the BIA series and this is the best 
 of the three, trust me, if ur into good  even some suspence, you 
 will love this title, its deffinatly a buy, but still rent it if your not sure.
  The squad ordering seems improved, but the A. I. is a bit dissapointing, it bothers me a bit the enemy 
 will just sit in cover at a fence while ur blowing it to hell with an MG42.
  The cover system is good but still needs adjustments, im not too fond of getting killed just because 
 the game wont let me go into cover at any specific part of a huge cement wall.
  Over all this is a great title, its a buy, I hope my review has been at least some form of help to 
 u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienhunter187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  As General Sherman once said, "War is Hell." 
  Nearly 150 years after the union destroyed Atlanta in the Civil War, war has become a game. Adults 
 and children alike sit down in front of televisions with controllers in-hand and wage war across 
 different time periods, both past and future, with little or no consequence.
  
  World War II has become the favorite time period to set first-person shooters in. I've lost count 
 of how many times I've stormed the beaches of Normandy. I've killed so many Nazis that they should 
 pin the Congressional Medal of Honor on me. And while many of the famous WWII games like "Medal 
 of Honor" and "Call of Duty" were fun, they were tame, watered-down and dare I say neutered visions 
 of what the Second World War was really like. "Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway" doesn't pull any 
 punches. It shows the true nature of WWII as best as can be done through a video game, even if 
 it is disturbing.
  
  "Hell's Highway" is the third chapter in Gearbox's "Brothers in Arms" series and it puts you right 
 back in the shoes of Sgt. Matt Baker and his ragtag group of soldiers in the 101st Airborne Division. 
 Unlike most WWII shooters, or video games in general, "Hell's Highway" is story-driven with numerous 
 cutscenes that dig deeper into the story beyond "look, Germans, shoot!"
  
  For those who have never played a "Brothers in Arms" game before, there's an opening cinematic 
 that sounds more like a daytime soap opera that begins with "previously on 'Brothers in Arms.'" 
 While the attempt at familiarizing new players with the story of the previous two games is noble, 
 without any kind of context, the random cutscenes have no real continuality. But the cinematic 
 isn't needed. There's enough character development to keep the story interesting throughout the 
 game. 
  
  "Hell's Highway" takes place during Operation Market Garden, which was the Allies attempt to have 
 the war ended by Christmas. It was the largest Airborne operation in the military's history. The 
 allies were to liberate Holland and push their way into Germany to bring a swift conclusion to 
 the war. History shows Market Garden was one of the worst blunders in American military history. 
 
  
  For the purposes of this game, you're a beat-down sergeant trying to keep himself and his men alive. 
 And while the story of "Hell's Highway" is its greatest strength, it's also the game's greatest 
 weakness.
  A lot of the story-telling is heavy-handed. Yes, war is Hell, everyone knows that. But the game 
 continues to beat you over the head with how bad the soldiers have taken the battle and how bad 
 they want to go home. Some times, it pulls on your heart-strings a little too much, like when you 
 have to rescue a kid from what seems like half of the German army. It's definitely darker than 
 the standard WWII game affair like but it could be too dark for many people.
  
  Just because the game's story is its greatest drawing card doesn't mean the gameplay isn't up to 
 par. Gearbox has had two previous games to polish up the "Brothers in Arms" formula, and it shows. 
 The shooting mechanics are smooth and intuitive. Unlike other shooters, "Hell's Highway" relies 
 more on squad mechanics. It's not as tactical as games like "Ghost Recon" or "Rainbow 6," but you 
 have to keep your squads alive if you really want to have a smooth time during the campaign. 
 
  
  Each mission gives you a different set of teams to order. You have the assault team, which is your 
 standard group of soldiers with infantry weapons; the MG team, which carries a MG-42 machine gun 
 to lay down suppressing fire; the bazooka team, which carries a powerful bazooka to destroy emplacements 
 and the fire team, which uses heavier infantry weapons. 
  
  How you use these teams is entirely up to you. You can order them to suppress a squad of Germans 
 while you flank around behind them, or you can have your teams lob grenades into an emplacement 
 or you can order them to flank while you draw the enemy fire. The options are endless. But you 
 do need to use them, otherwise you will die quickly. And there's nothing like the feeling of flanking 
 around behind a squad of Germans and killing them all with your Thompson machine gun. 
  
  As with most squad-based shooters, your squad are a bunch of morons. You tell them to take cover 
 behind a wall in the middle of a large firefight and instead of staying behind cover up until they 
 get to that wall, they will jump over the cover they're hiding behind, run out into the line of 
 fire, and then jump back over the cover they're moving to and crouch down. It becomes so frustratingly 
 annoying, that you will want to put a bullet in their heads just because they are so stupid. At 
 least the Germans will flank around behind you or turn tail and run if you get the jump on them. 
 Your squadmates will stand there and say "why aren't we moving?"
  
  There's a new cover system in "Hell's Highway" that will keep your head out of the line of fire 
 if used properly. If you get near any solid, flat object, you can press the left bumper button 
 and go into a third-person view, kind of like "Rainbow 6: Vegas." When fighting three or four squads 
 of Germans in an open area, you'll wonder how you ever survived without a cover system. 
  
  The controls can be overwhelming in the beginning. You'll send your soldiers off to get killed 
 and you'll find yourself flanked and killed numerous times. But you'll soon get the hang of it. 
 And Gearbox has added a "training" option that will help you hit the ground running with different 
 popup boxes that will walk you through the basics of the gameplay.
  
  Sooner, rather than later, you'll be popping headshots and placing grenades perfectly. In fact, 
 after a while, the game becomes a cakewalk. That's why Gearbox added the "Authentic" game mode. 
 After you complete the game on one of the two starting difficulties, you can go through the game 
 again without crosshairs or any other identifying markers that helped you out during your previous 
 playthrough. It gives fans an added challenge to an already fun game.
  
  The health system isn't as punishing as the previous games. Instead of hunting for medpacks to 
 heal, there's a "Halo" style health system. If you get shot, the screen will turn red and you need 
 to find cover. You'll heal quickly, but you can also be killed by two or three bullets. Just because 
 your health recharges, doesn't mean you can turn into the WWII equivalent of Rambo. 
  
  Graphically, the game is impressive, but not mind-blowing. It runs on the Unreal 3 engine, and 
 like other games on the engine, there is some very bad texture pop-in. Beautiful cinematics are 
 some times ruined by areas that look horribly blurry before the textures load. Even with the install 
 on the Playstation 3, the textures don't load any faster. 
  
  The character models look impressive, as would be expected from a UE3 game. But the lip synching 
 during cutscenes leaves a lot to be desired and can even pull you out of the moment. 
  
  "Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway" is probably the most authentic WWII experience you can get on 
 a video game console. The game carries a Mature rating from the Entertainment Software Ratings 
 Board. Not only is there a lot of bad language, as you would expect from a group of soldiers during 
 WWII, there is an insane amount of blood and gore. 
  
  The game also has "kill cam" moments that emphasize the brutal nature of the war. Land a headshot 
 properly, throw a grenade in the right spot or shoot a group of the enemy with a tank shell and 
 the game will zoom in on their bodies and slow down so you can see their limbs fly off or their 
 heads burst like a watermelon. Think the infamous head exploding scene in "Scanners," only over 
 the course of 25 to 30 times in a playthrough. It almost becomes too grotesque after a while. But 
 there is an option to turn off the kill cams as well as the gore and the language. 
  
  There is a multiplayer component to the game, which was developed by a team from Rockstar Studios. 
 While it supports up to 20 players in a similar style to the campaign, the graphics are downgraded 
 and there are a lot of bugs. The game constantly lags, no matter how great your connection is, 
 and the hit detection is worse than "Halo 3," and that's bad. For all intents and purposes, "Hell's 
 Highway" is a single-player game. If you want a multiplayer WWII game, look up "Call of Duty 2." 
 
  
  Like the previous entries in the "Brothers in Arms" series, "Hell's Highway" is not for everyone. 
 The gameplay is slow and methodically paced. There's no running and gunning. You have a sprint 
 button, but it's only there to move from cover to cover. 
  
  There are no John Wayne moments in "Hell's Highway." It's a dark, gritty game that's almost depressing. 
 It truly is the "Band of Brothers" of video games. And with high production values and some of 
 the most refined gameplay of squad-based shooters, it's a game you should really look into if you're 
 a WWII shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dsking41
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway isn't bad.
  Not at all to be more specific.
  So, the game got an overall Critic Score of 7.8 which is pretty low 
  
  but look at the bright 
 side:
  They don't know a damn about this phenomenal game.
  Now we all know (well most of us) that the game isn't a straight A+ 
  
  but it's not a 7.8 at 
 all.
  First of all, the game is great at some moments and at the other it 
  
  just flows or boring.
  Most of the time you will get to command Sgt. Baker with his teams
  
 
  (AKA Bazooka, MG and Assault) .
  However, sometimes you will go Solo and that's a little bit of a 
  
  stupid idea considering 
 the fact that it is a Command-FPS game 
  
  and not "Doom" or "Wolfenstein".
  Let's be more specific and talk about some features of the game.
  Graphics:
  Well actually 
 the game looks good and even better then good! alot!
  I mean all of the cut-scenes, the effects during gameplay, the gore is wonderful although the grass, flowers 
 and etc. are just well, bad or very mediocre for this kind of game.
  But, overall the graphics rules here, i mean the game just looks good and you shouldn't think of 
 not buying this game all because of BIA getting 5.5 in the Graphics at IGN.
  The Graphics get a 8.0 from Me.
  The sound is Very good in this game.
  The voice overs are 
 wonderful and cut-scenes with all Booms around is just authentic.
  It gets a 10 from me.
  Gameplay is simple and yet very complicated.
  I mean it will be very familiar to the fans of 
 the series but it will also be combined with some new elements being added to game such as the 
 cover system and the command of new teams in specific locations.
  You can expect alot of fun shooting around although it's not the main idea but it's still fun but 
 most of the time your head will be focusing on commanding your squad.
  It gets a 9 from me.
  Overall:
  Well overall Brothers in Arms Hell's highway is a great game.
 
  It's right, it's not like the previous titles but it sure as hell alot of fun and a good game 
 to spend your time in the afternoon.
  If you like Hollywood like games you must buy it.
  If you're a fan of the series you should definitely buy it.
  If you're a WW2 fan you should try 
 it out.
  If you like FPS's you should give it a shot and maybe rent the game.
  Great game, not perfect but far away from Abysmal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightimes420
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  They came so close to getting me, so close.
  
  Even with fresh memories of purchasing Mercs 2 I would have still bought this the day it came out.
 
  
  With all the recent let downs, Brothers in arms HH was the one thing I had been looking forward 
 to until Fallout 3. How could they mess it up?
  
  However due to shipping delays in my area I was forced to wait several days, and during that time 
 I came across a very disturbing review from Xbox Magazine.
  
  In their review, tucked to the side I casually read over the phrase "... and the total absence of 
 co-op.".
  
  I almost did a double take, and immediately took my name off the order list.
  
  As someone who generally flies through games with ease, the lack of a co-op feature on a game 
 like this, which had managed a BRILLIANT version of co-op in EIB, instantly demotes it to a rental.
 
  
  Am I the only one wondering what the hell is going on will all these sequels leaving out old content 
 from previous titles?
  
  This aside, I did end up renting the game (I still highly enjoyed the previous brothers in arms 
 SP) and was in for a double shock.
  
  this does not feel like Brothers in arms, more so some strange perversion of COD.
  
  Authenticity? 
 
  
  If your so authentic why can't I immediately play on the mode.
  
  why do my men look and act like sup par androids. (who glitch during cut scenes)
  
  why can 
 I -RELOAD- a Garand when it still has half a clip in it?
  
  why are the graphics unpolished? (I would have even settled for the previous games graphics updated, 
 over this twitchy mess of texturing)
  
  why are the authentic soldiers I'm fighting poorly scripted and full of AI holes? how authentic 
 is it for a guy to be completely unaware my grenade went off directly behind him? (I re created 
 this from the IGN video review with ease)
  
  I could go on and on. From the lame destructible cover to a poorly implemented 'dig in' system. 
 
  
  As harsh as this review is, the game isn't without it's charms. For three years development though, 
 and a bar set high, (with an image to uphold from their last games as well) this was a big disappointment 
 for me. It just doesn't feel like the same experience as I had earlier with BIA's titles.
  
  I wont even get into the solo segments.
  
  so to wrap it up, I hope they go in a different 
 direction with BIA4, back to what they were best at. Leave flashy call of duty play to the people 
 who are good at making it, and sticking to the tactical war simulations they did so well.
  
  Maybe I'm just bitter from Mercs 2/GTA4/Too Human/AItD, Etc.
  
  -I'd like to note, I'm 
 not trying to flame this effort, but to reinforce the idea that our standards should be a hell 
 of a lot higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in BIA is very well executed and offers a refreshing experience from other shooters 
 out there. You can command squads on the fly without breaking up the gameplay in anyway. You then 
 use these squads to suppress the enemy while you, or another squad, run onto their flank and take 
 them out. The game has no health system for you which means one bullet can and will kill you. This 
 is balanced out by making the screen turn slightly more and more red as you are taking fire giving 
 you time to take cover and wiat for the heat to die down. BIA no has a new Gears of War style cover 
 sytem which works incredibly well even though i doubt the crosshairs are accurate to where you 
 are aiming. Quite a few times, you will question the hit-boxes of the enemy. Aside from this the 
 gameplay is very solid and it remains challenging without being frustrating.
  By far the best effects are the sound effects. The mgs all sound very authentic and sometimes you 
 can lose yourself in the ratatatat of gunfire.
  My biggest complaint is the mutliplayer. While one mode with no respawns is a fine concept by me 
 (it causes one to be more cautious) the online, as of yet is completely broken. I gurantee you 
 will never encounter a lag-free game.
  Overall i would say wait and see if Gearbox releases a patch for multiplayer because otherwise 
 the singleplayer (while still being exceptionally good) is not worth 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  BIA: HH is the newest installment in the WW2 squad-based shooter series. It takes everything you 
 loved and hated in the previous games and fixes/adds to it.
  
  I won't give away any of the plot, but it's the same immersive storyline you would except from 
 a BIA game. All the action takes place with you playing as Sgt. Matt Baker, or a British Tank Commander. 
 You'll fight all over the German countryside, Urban areas, Factories and Train Yards. All locations 
 are accurate to what te 101st Airbourne Paratroopers did during Operation Market Garden. 
  
  Now what were really all waiting on the how good is the gameplay? Well for the most part its 
 exactly what you would want for this type of FPS. This time the guys at Ubisoft/Gearbox added a 
 new cover system which is very well done. My only complaint is that sometimes you'll try to dig 
 into cover and Baker will slide into a different postion resulting in you getting shredded by German 
 fire. But for the most part its extremely helpful and only adds to the tactics you can use. 
  
  Your squad also got a makeover and they are much more effective in combat. I've only encounterd 
 them running to the wrong side of cover once of twice while playing through the entire game.
  
  The game also has an action cam, so if you get a well placed shot of, bazooka shell, or grenade 
 off the camera goes in for a slo-mo shot of all the carnage. It's really satisfying to see limbs 
 flying everywhere of a head exploding, its a little over the top, but only adds to the fun.
  
  
  BIA is short. I was able to beat it on veteran difficulty within 2 days. However after 
 you beat the game an Authentic difficulty is unlocked which is sure to make you want to play through 
 it again. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Technical Improvements-
  The graphics are amazing. Faces are war-torn and unshaven. Explosions are ear shattering and realistic. 
 The game does a great job at immersing you into each firefight. The sound adds to the drama and 
 frantic combat. There are a few glitches that doesnt really effect gameplay. For example, you can 
 run through bits of fence or the machine gun is floating in mid-air as you squad fires it from 
 a stationary position.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is the game's weakest point. Online is confusing and not fun. Tanks are overpowering 
 and games are never full. BIA just isnt made for a good multiplayer experience. So if you thought 
 you and your buddies were going to be able to go online and use tactics, youre going to be very 
 dissapointed.
  
  Overall-
  If you liked the first games you will Love this one.
  Any WW2 fan of tactical fPS fan needs to check this game out it doesnt dissapoint.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachBdude
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  basically its exactly what the videos on gamespot show down to the gameplay. multiplayer was just 
 thown in there so people could play with frineds so if that why your getting it then dont bother. 
 the campaign is very deferent from any other brothers in arms and it seems to be a unique worl 
 warII shooter. definitly something i will play over and over and over for a thousand years. the 
 story relies antirely on the pref=vious games so if you havent play any others in the trilogy then 
 you probably wont understand anything. but it will still be fun to play. the campaign is somewhat 
 short, actually its shorter than road to hill 30 but longer than earned in blood. and much like 
 the other brothers in arms, the begining of the game starts off in an important part later on, 
 then goes back and you have to play up to that part again. things make almost no sense in the begining 
 and the antisipation of what will happen keeps you playing all night. unless ofcourse you ruin 
 it by asking people what happens. the overall game actually gets creepy when baker seems to be 
 going crazy when he starts seeing the men that have died under his command. everything comes together 
 at the middle and the end rather than just the end. the special squad is most fun to use, blowing 
 stuff up with the bazooka or shredding picket fences with the machine gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkeManFoSho
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  The story is great, i dont remember the other BIA games so the small recap reminds me of some parts, 
 not servicable to tell the ENTIRE story so far but its okay. 
  
  The story is pretty much standard fare of WWII shooters, your a character going through hell and 
 every1 is dying around you etc. But the twist in the story is that the main character, Baker, is 
 hallucinating and a bit insane, so it gives the story a creep factor unseen in a wwII shooter. 
 Deaths from past games continue to haunt him with him hearing voices of the fallen and they confront 
 him. A great story but the game ends with a dissapointing cliff hanger but not as bad as say Assassin's 
 Creed or Halo 2.
  
  The game mechanics is all about cover, squad leadership, suppresion and flanking. This is very 
 fun to do and new scenarios emerge constantly, such as there is a flak in the area or a tank emerges. 
 IMO the sound and animation is what makes this game great, the weapons sound just right and has 
 that satisfaction to it when you shoot it and the controller rumbles, making it feel oh so right. 
 The graphics were dissapointing especially when in first person, it looks like CoD1 in first person, 
 but when in third person in cover, Baker animates well and looks good too so it balances out. One 
 last thing, the authentic difficulty is not fair, with the crosshairs gone its very hard to aim 
 with anything other than scoped rifle or machine gun. Your mostly in cover in the game, and when 
 you aim out of cover its still third person, and w/o cross hairs you cant aim properly and you 
 cant look down iron sights either.
  
  Here comes the worst part of the game, the multiplayer. First of all, the multiplayer degrades 
 the graphics, prob to relive the connection, but that leads to another problem. The connections 
 terrible, it is unacceptable to play with that much lag in a console game. When the game reaches 
 or is close to the cap of 20 player the lag picks up even if everyone has 3 green dots as a connection 
 in a 20 player match. very promising but does not work right.
  
  overall good game, if multiplayer had better lag control it would be a buy but i recommend just 
 a rent.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I apologize for the review deck above this text.
  
  Moving on
  
  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is a very fun game with an appealing storyline. That being said, 
 players who have not played the preceding games in the series most likely will not understand what's 
 going on, since most of the storyline revolves around the events in the past games. If you HAVE 
 played both games all the way through, then you will enjoy the ride. What I noticed almost right 
 away was how the cutscenes reminded me of the show "Band of Brothers" (favorite series) but also 
 knocked me off my feet with the great voice acting and how much more effort Gearbox put into the 
 cutscenes then they had in previous games. The graphics are also much better now, especially the 
 fire. Wow, it looks awesome! The facial expressions and emotions of the character models were also 
 pretty neat. The review by gamespot of this game showed a problem with the character faces (they 
 would sometimes turn "blob-like") but for some reason I never encountered this problem (thankfully!) 
 . The gameplay hasn't changed much, except where in previous titles the player would tell the tank 
 where to go, you now have full control over the tank. The tank's movement reminds me of some other 
 ww2 game I can't really remember which one but I know I've definitely seen it before... (Call of 
 Duty: United Offensive maybe? I don't know.) 
  Back to the gameplay.. Fighting has not changed much either, with the exception of the awesome 
 action camera, and the Rainbow Six Las Vegas ability to put yourself up against cover (where the 
 camera goes in 3rd person) . Your squad can be incapacitated, but they will recover once you reach 
 a checkpoint. I usually restart the mission if someone dies though... feels like im inadaquate or 
 somethin i guess (OCD) . The game is pretty exciting and fun when you first play it, but unfortunately, 
 there isn't much replay value to it. I haven't played the multi-player, probably won't, but I'll 
 still enjoy goin back to find all the killroys. 
  
  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is a fun game with great voice acting and an interesting storyline 
 that leaves me in anticipation for the next Brothers in Arms game (It will be in the Battle of 
 the Bulge WOOT!) . It's a good game, but it's not really worth paying fifty-sixty bucks for it. 
 Rent it first, beat it, and play online and if you like all of the game, then by all means go out 
 and purchase a copy. Otherwise, just rent it, beat it, and wait for the next one ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift118
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Great WWII tactical shooter, It is deffintly the best in the series. The single players as well 
 as mp are very well done. the best thing is the gore system its just freaken awsome. The graphics 
 for the game may not be the best but deffintly fit the style of game. The audio is the best ive 
 ever had in anygame. And the realism of the tactics, overall detail of everything. The only thing 
 i have bad to say is that the speech is goofy and there is no emotion.
  
  Great WWII tactical shooter, It is deffintly the best in the series. The single players as well 
 as mp are very well done. the best thing is the gore system its just freaken awsome. The graphics 
 for the game may not be the best but deffintly fit the style of game. The audio is the best ive 
 ever had in anygame. And the realism of the tactics, overall detail of everything. The only thing 
 i have bad to say is that the speech is goofy and there is no emotion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosaki3752
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This offering is better then the first two in the set. On my 70 inch HD TV it was a real treat. 
 The detail , graphics, and the movement and shooting where all a cut above. I guess i have to say 
 it was worth the wait. The extra mayhem in the head shoots and explosive actions was enough to 
 set off a flash back. Yours truly is combat vet of vietnam vintage so that is enough said on the 
 reality front. Anyone who liked the first two BIA will surly like Hells Highway. I have read some 
 unfavorable reviews but have a hard time understanding most of the criticism. Until somebody does 
 one better this gets a 9.5 plus from me. I have played every WWII game of any worth and this is 
 clearly the best to date. All the details in the game a cut above anything on the market to date. 
 Plus its one of the only games that has stayed very close to the the actual history of the events. This 
 old Jarhead gives it a semper fi.
  
  I wish someone had done a walk through like COD had Is there one out There for an old timer? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SQUIGLEY101
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Here we have the amazing third instalment of Brothers in Arms. This is a very well put together 
 game. The shooting is very realistic, having just moved your cross hairs the gun still moves a 
 fraction. The realism of the audio is quite fantastic. Yet everything human made still has flaws. 
 sometimes the landscapes don't look absolutely amazing or the trees don't look good or the texture 
 of there face doesn't load for a little bit. but if that bothers you enough to not play the game 
 there's some thing wrong with your mind. some things that will bug you but yet shouldn't stop you 
 playing it is that your team sometimes won't be on the right side of the cover you just sent them 
 to or they will stand up, easy solution, the cover you sent them to is not big enought to support 
 them or you put your team icon on the very edge of the cover, just pick a good spot. the only thing 
 that i have trouble with is that sometimes it takes more than the nessecary amount of bullets to 
 kill the nazi, like 2 or 3. but with just this i would easily give it a 9.8.... however the reason 
 i brought it down to 9.0 was the multiplayer. it is an amazing idea but everyone has to cooperate, 
 and you know how that is on xboxlive. the only, and i mean only, wish i had for that game was they 
 had a more rainbow 6 vegas feel on multiplayer. just have a team death match and this would have 
 a 9.9 out of 10 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms is the game i specificaly brought my 360 for, iv waited close on two years for 
 it. Two years of seeing snippets here and there of this continuing story, a story that i got hooked 
 on pretty much from day one of road to hill 30. So the games finaly here and how do i feel about 
 it? Well if you had have asked me a yr ago what marks id be expecting to give this game on release 
 then id have said 10/10, now though im not so sure. There somthing not quite right about this game. 
 Dont get me wrong it is still a very good game. Excelent even, and it maybe that iv just spent too 
 long hyping this up in my own head. But there is a little niggling doubt as to whether or not this 
 was really ready to be put out or even if the finished article in mind with gearbox was a step 
 to far in reality. I dont know im not a software desgner. The faults it does have though are minor 
 its just to me in comparison with the other games, i dont think its as good or as engaging. There 
 is one point that im not really amused about is the fact that the detail that was put into this 
 game, the research it must of involved and they couldnt even be bothered to put the British para's 
 in the right gear for the era. What is lets it down is the helmets of the british army are the 
 same as used in the 70's, the weapons are American! The reason this grates so much is in the unlockable 
 information on the map page (select button) there is metion of the Bren Gun carriers yet later in 
 a battle the British paras are seen using American BAR's, not accurate. Like i said though my gripes 
 are minor and probably down to nothing more than building it up to much pre-release. It is a very 
 good game and as the Gamespot review says "its definatly replayable" and i think thats the point 
 at which im going to get the most out of it. I have not played it online yet so i can not really 
 give an opinion on that. I have noticed things missing from the videos that were online about a 
 yr ago. Stuff like the scene were the squad were on patrol and a dutch citezen indicated the presence 
 of germans (by mirror) on the otherside of washing hanging up, he was duly dispatched by a shot 
 threw a sheet drying in the wind. Also missing is the incident were by a german tank trundles down 
 a road and the squad quickly rush to use a german pak38 to destroy or imobolise it and where was 
 the little detail of squads going quiet in surprise attacks/ambushes of unaware enemies? Personaly 
 i think that gear box had just speant to much time on this game and had to recoup some costs hence 
 its unfinished feel. It could have been excelent instead its just good. From the to be continued 
 ending im hoping the next game will be battle of the bulge based (remember Leggets prophecey? somthing 
 about snow?) and im hoping that what didnt make this game is put back because somehow i feel that 
 this one was just an experiment as to what gearbox could do when it comes to the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms Hells Highway review single player. Keep in mind I don't normally play MP, and 
 I don't rate games based on its inclusion or lack of inclusion or how that plays. I am looking 
 for a great Single Player experience. 
  
  GRAPHICS: At first I thought they were not very good, but not as bad as others felt. After I got 
 into the game, the refreshing brighter color pallet and a number of wow-that-was-cool moments won 
 me over so I will now rate them as GOOD. The cut scenes may not be up to snuff with some "next-gen" 
 games but they certainly are not "last-gen" and they portray the emotion they are supposed to.
 
  
  SOUND: Sound was GREAT. VO, environmentals, music, and fighting sounds were all top notch IMHO. 
 The only potential drawback (and this occurs in almost every game with squad) is your squadmates 
 screaming the same crp at you when you KNOW what you are doing is dangerous. "Just shut the hell 
 up and worry about suppressing the enemy you igit". However, even those sounds added to the stress 
 and confusion of what a real battle may be like, sometimes annoying enough I just wanted them to 
 shut up so I could think and that's good as it's supposed to be stressful like a war.
  
  STORY: I like the BiA story so I will call it GREAT. This one kind of adds a little creepiness 
 as Baker starts to lose it a little it seems. It plays like an episode of Band of Brothers. The 
 only downside here is remembering the previous installments of the "show". They do have a previously 
 on feature at the beginning but that may not be entirely helpful. (It was more helpful when I started 
 my second play through) . It would be nice if the previous versions of the game were backward compatible.
 
  
  GAME PLAY: I really enjoyed this so I will call it GREAT. I really like squad based games, I like 
 cover, I like WWII confusing battles. The default controls took some getting used to but in the 
 end I am glad I didn't mess with them. I like the battles the best but some of the single missions 
 were fun too. 
  
  I DID NOT like the stupid obstacle course through fire mission, thankfully it's short (after your 
 figure out what's going on and where to go) . I also thought the tank missions were a little out 
 of character. They were fine, fun enough, they broke up the intense action and let you spam shells 
 and blow the crp out of everything. I just like the intense action and the tanks didn't really 
 have that as they were somewhat arcade like. 
  
  Lastly (for gameplay) I just started on Authentic and I do not like the fact you do not have iron 
 sites in cover. They tell you to kneel or "dig in" to steady the weapon the best, so I am not sure 
 why you can't have the iron sites when "dug in". I understand no cursor and if you are going to 
 run and gun no indicator, but if I am actually dug in and aiming I should get some sights. 
  
  Anyway, I liked the WWII war feel in the fighting, I liked the recon points and hunt for Kilroy 
 side items. Squad AI seemed about the same as my squad in RB6 or GRAWsometimes they were good 
 at getting into cover, sometimes they needed babysitting. Once I figured out their quirks I never 
 had an issue (well except sometimes accidentally sending them to their deaths when I hit the LT 
 subconsciously thinking it would put me into cover or zoom or something) :) . The game does have 
 a lot of cut scenes but unlike COD3 they did not annoy me as I was interested in the story and 
 none seemed disruptive or overly long (except the ending but the short credits compensated for 
 that) .
  
  In the end I am happy I got this game and would recommend it at full price for anyone that likes 
 this type of WWII squad based, story heavy, single player experience it's the best one this gen 
 (so far) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneofthefall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This is probably now my favorite world war 2 game for the xbox 360 and possibly the best ever made! 
 ok COD Started the craze of World war 2 games and Brothers in Arms aint nothing like it which IMO 
 is a great thing! Im not saying COD is bad or anything like that far from it i had many years of 
 great online and offline play with them all! but i do now prefer this game and the fact the idea 
 is to not get shot is the way to go IMO because that was the idea! no health packs here that heal 
 you if you take a bullet to the arm or leg, in fact that is what is awesome about Brothers in Arms 
 Hells Highway the fact that if your in too much fire the screen turns red & team mates will Scream 
 at you things like "are you trying to get shot" which makes you sit back and think out how to plan 
 the situation instead of alot of shooters where it is "RAMBO can never die stylee" and rush rush 
 rush game done! if it weren't for a few little flaws which i hope get fixed like.. "A. I Running 
 to the other side of the wall straight into deaths hands" (but not very often i would like to add) 
 then i would have probably gave this a ten! reminds me of my favorite world war 2 Series Band of 
 Brothers! Ubisoft has got to get a Reward or Something for this, SERIOUSLY BUY THIS GAME! you will 
 not be disappointed, you may have to have a heart and open mind to understand the cut scenes luckily 
 i have Both and im half way through the game and love it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiGuBoT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game is just awesome. It's not only about shooting some enemies and run to another place and 
 shoot again. I think It's really cool to command your squads, It's not just run and gun. There's 
 also a very good storyline and If you're closing to the end of the game you notice how Baker really 
 Is starting to lose it. I think Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway Is a little too short but overall 
 I think the game is really awesome among the cover-, gore and the slow-motion system. Well I'm gonna 
 say that this game isn't easy, not hard but still kind of hard. Well at least it's much harder 
 on Casual than like Call of Duty 4's recruit difficulty. Myself i haven't played through the game 
 yet because of the end is kind of hard. There's a few bugs in the game at least on the Xbox360. 
 Here's one of them: I ordered my base-of-fire team to move to position and then one of my squad-leaders 
 (Zanowich) died. I didn't see an enemy shoot and nothing like that he just died. 
  
  BTW sorry if there's any misspelled words! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  I knew I wasn't going to buy this game right off the bat because of call of duty world at war and 
 far cry 2, and fable 2, and gears of war 2. I just didn't want to waste the money on an average 
 game. But I had to rent it when I heard of the squad commands. So as soon as I rented it I sat 
 down and started playing, there minor glitches and voice soundtrack glitches. It was trying to 
 be an emotional game but it didn't work for me. i actually felt kinda bad not being sad when tons 
 of guys just died. But for me call of duty 4 was way more emotional on the last level. But moving 
 on the game was average, I didn't enjoy the story line very much it was to boring not enough action. 
 The multiplayer was very boring also. I don't know how multiplayer can be boring but some way they 
 managed a way to do so. Overall I was glad that I didn't buy this game. I'm glad i saved my money 
 for all the games I mentioned before. The one thing I did like was the slo motion deaths when you 
 got a headshot or threw a grenade or something. I didn't like this game and I don't think you will 
 like this game. DO NOT BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ---brookesy ---
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  story mode is fantastic. But online isnt that great but if your not bothered by online BUY IT!
 
  The storyline has twists and turns and really puts you in the action. The gameplay is challenging 
 but is extremely fun. online is a downer and nothing like CoD4 but this game is in a class of its 
 own, a definate buy! But like many games there are some bugs, the AI isnt always responsive realistically 
 but this happens very rarely but when you are playing it you dont notice that much. the control 
 are easy to get with and the cover system works well. The regeneration of yhealth makes the game 
 easier than having to find health packs all the time. The audio is superb aswell and really adds 
 the extra dimension to the game. the surroundings are well put together the graphiccs are great! 
 The campaign isnt too long but will take you about 10+ on authentic difficulty, but i havent tryed 
 this yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malkinuk07
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  I've recently brought a copy of BIA, played it and its a pretty smart game except for 1 or 2 graphic 
 glitches but that does'nt bother you when your commanding your team in hectic and fierce gun battles! The 
 sounds are really good makes you feel like your really there specially if your playing it with 
 a surround system. But when you go to play it online the game goes downhill, The graphics seem to 
 be not as good the levels are tiny and the gameplay is shocking its more like a game from playstation 
 1, You play in squads trying to capture each others flags, And in some levels there is a tank?? Unless 
 you can talk to everyone on the headset it just does'nt work right! Which is aright disapointment!! 
 and if bad company can make a decent 1 player game and a excellent online mode then why could'nt 
 they with this. But apart from the pants online mode the single player is excellent.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  from the hit brothers in arms series comes another solid world war shooter any fps fan should lay 
 his hands on. first thing anyone will notice is the truly well detailed and made environments and 
 the next gen graphics given liberally for the old series. the new improvements look amazing, the 
 3rd person view in covers which reminds us of the vegas series and the intense gore effects added 
 to combat gives this a sweet yet violent look. the pace of the game is slow offering great possibilities 
 of flanking and covering before shooting yet effects of explosions and bullet hits makes it look 
 quite a mature game. anyone will be easily impressed by the first introductory level when our comrade 
 is turned into ashes by fire and the visuals offered for the same. the game is impressive throughout 
 and is very entertaining giving us memories of the old series but yet stands out on its own new 
 campaign and brilliantly crafted visuals and gameplay. sound is again excellent and so is the physics. a 
 lot to explore and so this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SturmGeschuetZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  After having played the first 2 Brothers in Arms ( Hill 30 and Earned in Blood ) I could not wait 
 to see what gearbox software had in store for its 3rd installation , Hells Highway. Although delayed 
 several times the game came out and did what it said it was going to do. 
  
  Visually this game looks beautiful, with wide open fields you feel as if you really are in the 
 middle of a dutch field in 1944. Characters from the original bakers dozen appear to look war torn; scars 
 and the fatigue of battle show on their faces. The plot is second to none as it is the first fps 
 that I have ever played to have an in depth story. You really do get the sense that these characters 
 have some sense of life and you feel like you know them like a friend after a while. If you have 
 played the first two games you will understand what I mean and you will feel what these guys go 
 through. 
  
  The game-play itself is very fun and challenging which makes it way more interesting. In this game 
 players will not run over the enemy by running and shooting a 71 round sub machine gun at someone, 
 but rather using tactics , teamwork , and cover, the choices are yours to make and the game will 
 punish you if you are wrong. This also stops you from rushing through the game and makes you play 
 it the way it was supposed to have been played. The camera close up you might have heard of that 
 zooms in at the sight of a long distance head shot or a grenade explosion is a wonderful idea for 
 the gamer. While not realistic, it lets players see what they did and it is very rewarding, trust 
 me. I have not played the online multiplayer yet but I have heard it is open ended as far as the 
 teamwork. Unfortunately, players will most likely go lone wolf rather than use teamwork because 
 of their past fps experiences. 
  
  It takes an extra step to make the cut-scenes for BIA: HH but gearbox did it and exceeded everyones 
 expectations in doing so and that is why they stand out amongst other FPS's like the Call Of Duty 
 franchise, which has a sub par story or the Rainbow Six franchise. The cut-scenes make the game 
 feel like an interactive movie and it makes it all that much better. You will probably find yourself 
 saying "noooooooooo!!!" at the end of this game because you will not want the story to end. 
  
  Overall this game is a MUST HAVE if you like games with any in depth story or if you have played 
 the first two games in the series. Just trust me , this game will not let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HESSLER1960
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  At wast. At wast, at wast, at wast! The boys are back in town! After having this game reserved and 
 paid for since March of 2007, it's proven itself to be well worth the wait. The graphics are phenomenal 
 and my personal fave KAR98 is as accurate and deadly as ever. Gotta love that head shot slo-mo! 
 There is still a bit of a problem with the squad going exactly where I try to position them, but 
 I love the extra firepower in the bazooka squad. This has led to some pretty early demises for 
 my squad-mates if I don't keep them back a bit. I've also noticed my machine gunner seems to be 
 a little gun shy. More than once, I've found myself finishing a map completely alone. But I nit-pick. 
 I'm drinking loads of coffee and having a blast! To the gamers out there who think the WWII genre 
 is dead and overdone, you don't know what your missing. It's the poorly developed WWII games that 
 everyone is tired of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcusbartlett
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Please pardon the horrible clich, but this game truly hits the center of the target. It may have 
 taken them FOREVER to get this game to market, but it was truly worth the wait, and you can really 
 see what they were working on.
  
  As an avid player of FPS games, a WWII history nut, an accomplished designer, and a lover of all 
 things historically accurate, I can say without equivocation that Ubisoft and Gearbox really got 
 it right in this, their latest installment of the Brothers in Arms franchise.
  
  From the beautiful details across the dutch countryside (designer love) , to the particulars of 
 combat (WWII nut) , to the dramatic portrayal of the human condition presented throughout the game 
 in cut-scenes and in-game dialogue (lover of life's realities) , this game is truly the industry's 
 first attempt at marrying the excitement of a FPS with the depth, grandeur and character dimensionality 
 of a good RPG.
  
  The controls have been cleaned up substantially from the previous two installments, allowing you 
 better control of your squads, a group of soldiers who's collective AI is finally up to snuff.
 
  
  The sound editing is spot-on. The "battle-camera" work, though irritatingly exaggerated for me, 
 is very well done, and adds a nice layer of action for those who need a bit more "gore." 
  
  All in all, I can't say enough good things about this game. From design to narrative, I am 
 extremely critical of the so-called "authentic" games, often times finding them to be anything 
 but. However, with Hell's Highway, the whole package has come together beautifully, and the statement 
 should be shouted from the "dutch" rooftops! Well done guys, truly, well done.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  From the moment u pick up the controler you will fear for you life, as Hell's Highway places u 
 in the middle of the war... making you care for the lives of your team mates and of Matt Baker.. one 
 may describe it more as a movie, cut scenes are lengthy and very deep, as the game tries to built 
 a meanigfull story line... finaly releasing some secrets from "hill 30". The Gameplay has not changed 
 much since the original, one still needs to rely on his team and flanki9ng tactics to eliminate 
 the german opposition. The major change was the inclusion of "special teams" such as Mg and Rocket 
 launcher, which adds a spin in the fighting.
  
  new comands have been added and graphics have greatly imporved ( although it does not match the 
 one of GoW or Halo3) . The Ai is good most of the times.. with minor glitches mainly concerning you 
 team movement.. however both enemy and friendly Ai move if being flank, place suppressing fire on 
 enemies and shout in battle information.
  
  The bigest down side of the game is the cinametic graphics, as it is often late.. making the scene 
 poorly rendered for a few seconds... also new comers of the series will feel out of place... as the 
 game heavly reliese on the previous games for its story line.. and as the recap at the begeining 
 does not give a clear view of things.
  
  In Genreal BiA: HH is on of the best war game out there, and anybody which loves this era.. or just 
 plan old chaos need to get his hands on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulletsnOctane
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  There are flaws, as in many games this generation, sadly, but these are not major flaws - more 
 so on the visual side. The games' "flaws" DO NOT take way from the game play -- which, for me, 
 is why I game.
  
  As an admirer of the BIA franchise and of the war itself, it definitely captures the essence of 
 war (fare) .
  
  Thankfully, with the help of tutorials new gamers can learn how to properly outflank, hold down 
 and setup their position for the "advantage" that every soldier needs to come home safely. ;)
 
  
  As I mentioned before, the game has it's flaws, but there is a deep and a rather interesting storyline 
 that keeps pulling you in. If you're a gamer that does not let the visuals make or break the game 
 for you; If
  you're not a gamer that has been waiting for an authentic WWII shooter to come of age; Then this 
 game is for you. 
  
  Now, if you choose to buy it or rent it... that's up to you. I think it's a definitely play. Either 
 way.
  
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 and Earned in Blood were great games that stuck to the World 
 War 2 era, but had a unique tactical/strategical element of being able to control other units; 
 they both had a pretty good single player campaign as well as co-op missions and multiplayer; obviously, 
 the variety both games offered, they gave the game high replay values.
  
  Where can we go from here? Unfortunately, instead of keeping the high standard of gaming, they 
 choose to leave out many of the features that made the first two games great. You want to play 
 the game co-op? Well, this game doesn't offer it on-line or off-line.
  
  The game offers a pretty good single player campaign, but, if you've played any WW2 shooters, this 
 doesn't deviate from the norm. If you've played most of the shooters this generation, then the 
 MP seems all to familiar.
  
  I would suggest, if you are new to the series, to buy the first two games; they are cheap and much 
 better. I hate to say it, but this game is a huge disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_moneyboy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  The game will will give you something to do while you wait for another new release. Same ol' same 
 'ol WWII stuff... If you need a fresh game for about five hours, pick it up. The controls suck, 
 very stickey. Press ONE WRONG button the whole mission is SNAFU. The AI are unimpressive and your 
 team needs 24/7 babysitting, they find cover, but thats about it. Would be nice to a HUD as to 
 there position and health, but I guess it would be GRAW then wouldn't it... Micro management and 
 constant map and mission checks make for choppy play. The instnat raply and slow mo head shot are 
 cool and I seem to play with the hopes of getting more. This is the best part... achievements pop 
 up every 10 seconds. Want some easy points, get it. Otherwise wait for SOCOM comming to PS3 like 
 me and kill some time. and cash with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoughryderGT
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  To start this off I want to say that I'm a huge fan of the series. To this day I still own the 
 first two, and I've been waiting (a long time) for this game to release. Now its here and just as 
 my classification describes, almost, but not quite. The story takes place after Earned in Blood, 
 so this makes it part 3 in the series. The opening scenes start off emotional and exciting. You 
 see the soldiers as they prepare before their big drop. You also see some flash backs from Matt 
 Baker (main character) as a child. Let me start with the Pros. Cinematics are nicely detailed and 
 dialogue is spot on. Enough action and strategy to keep you on your toes and constantly thinking. 
 Ok, now the Cons. Gameplay is seriously glitchy. Its really difficult to get my character to perform 
 a certain action. I'm pressed against cover and I want hop over and sprint to the next cover, but 
 the game decides I want to pop my head out and begin firing. I would go back and forth trying to 
 perform the action and after the 4th try it does what I wanted. The guns look badly animated. The 
 weapons look like they came straight from the original Xbox. On that note, graphics are sub-par. 
 Gameplay animation looks fake, environments are awful and you cant help to laugh at your weapon 
 with its horrible graphics. I'm going to finish only for the story and thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duplex1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out great its really very fun. the single plyer and multiplayer are great but they 
 missed the one thing alot of gamers were wishing. They got rid of the coop experience. Now there 
 is absolutely no coop at all. No skirmish, no guests no nothing. Where the game focuses on they 
 did very well but im still shocked that there is no coop what so ever. So be careful when you buy 
 the game don't buy it for the same reason i did. which was to ply with a buddy and constantly mow 
 guys down left and right. Instead expect a great time by yourself, the single player story and 
 gameplay rank up there like the predecessors before, and the multiplayer is just as good. I will 
 definitely be playing for some time, but i would have waited another three months if they had returned 
 with some coop action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PMThor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  While this game does all that this series has done, there are glitches galore. Ordering teams around 
 gets redundant, and then there are the jumps, cuts, and obvious flaws where things aren't adding 
 up, no less the enemy that does weird things. One enemy runs behind you while all your teams crush 
 his squadmates? Yeah, that happens. Enemies die, pile up in a gigantic group hug? Enemies die in 
 houses yet their stiff bodies lie on windowsills? Yes.
  
  I am merely speaking to the single player too.
  
  It's Ok. Not great, not bad. It really is 
 nothing new. Fans of the series will like it, otherwise I say pass. This game is simply stale, 
 there is really no innovations to keep players enthralled and looking forward to the next board. 
 Too bad really, because this series has really been my favorite series in the past few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluch9
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Simply put Brothers In Arms Hells Highway is great. Honestly, not perfect, not going to win awards, 
 but is a great game. After waiting 2 years and a bit since the first trailers came out i have been 
 excited about this game, Ive played the past two in the series and they were great, but by far, 
 Hell`s Highway takes the cake. Crisp but not OUTSTANDING graphics, but a solid example of what 
 the Unreal Engine 3 can do.
  
  Graphics-8.0- not quite `next gen` but solid nonetheless.
  Sound-8.5- voice acting is great, but other parts of the game seem... not so ambient as the past 
 two.
  Game-play-9.5- there is a cover system, simple squad commands, easy Rainbow Six Vegas controls, 
 and a kick ass gore system.
  Bang-for-your-buck-7- the multi-player isn't that great, anybody who buys this game will get it 
 for the single player though probably.
  
  OVERALL: 9.0 not an average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bman2k8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Now, this game had a lot of hype to it when it was announced. After being dragged on for nearly 
 2 years of devolopement, you'd expect this to be good. Well folks, all that time and effort that's 
 been put into this has payed off. Beautiful, stunning graphics await you at cut scenes, along with 
 in-game play. Sqaud control feels natural, with some noticeable shotty AI sometimes though. The 
 key to surviving in this game is cover. If you don't find cover, then paint a target on your head 
 to make it easier for them. I was very disappointed in the multiplayer I might add. I was expecting 
 a nice online play, but graphics are somewhat bad online. With only one game mode, it starts to 
 piss you off after a while. This is the game thats single player will most likely keep you playing. 
 It tells the story as a Hollywood film would, deep and detailed. This game really goes deep into 
 what it's like in being a true soldier, such as the emotional feelings. Other then the online, 
 this game has me hooked, and will entertain me for hours on end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Note: Play this game on Veteran. It makes a huge difference. Only real beginners to First Person 
 Tactical shooters should play this on the lower difficulty level.
  
  The BIA franchise was built on historical accuracy and attention to detail as well as a kind of 
 tactial realism that no other WWII shooter has been able to capture. Don't expect this game to 
 stray from that general model. The game makes you really feel like one is a part of the real band 
 of brothers in Holland ready to fight the Nazi's. It reeks of realism as opposed to the slick COD 
 scripted approach. With BIA this is how the war was faught. Small groups with intense skirmihes. 
 Battles could be long and protracted where it is easy to get pinned down unless you use your head. 
 I love the model and, as I have moved through the game, it is considerably more brilliant as I 
 go along. Note: The first few levels of the game may seem a bit tame because of the training aspects 
 that kick in to help you learn all the games features. First impressions are sometimes not to be 
 trusted. This game is the ultimate realization of the franchise... and I guarantee you when after 
 a long and drawn out firefight you score that headshot you will know what I am taling about. 
 
  
  
  This is a really another fun and intersting chapter in the BIA series. It has many good points 
 The story is great, the player models are great, the attention to Historical detail is great. Some 
 of the special effects involving hits on opponents are magnificent 
  
  I know that tremendous effort went into the attention to historical detail. Some of these sets 
 really capture the reality of a war ravaged once idyllic countryside. I give the BIA team high 
 marks for this and the great story and player models with great battles and skirmishes. Ultimately 
 they stuck with what has worked so well in the past and it does have many really great moments.
 
  
  Single Player Campaign = 10.0
  Multiplayer... I don't really know because I never played it for the Multiplayer mode and who needs 
 it when the single player campaign is so superior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbrack03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, the game seems like it's a repeat of previous titles that pit American's against 
 Germans. Then you read that there is supposed to be awesome special effects and destructible environments. 
 So, you decide that you're going to give it a try. The graphics don't tend to hurt your eyes, but 
 they're nothing special either. It's what you would expect from a next-gen game. What does immediately 
 stand out is the inspired cut scenes that give the player a look at previous titles and give a 
 spoiler about what is to come. The cinematics are impressive. Then you start playing. The destructible 
 environments that were promised are essentially non-existent. Yes, if you shoot a sand bag obstacle 
 with a bazooka, it goes away. But, the whole shooting individual planks off of a fence did not 
 happen in a realistic fashion. This game was supposed to provide realistic physics. In real life, 
 if you shoot a fence with a 50 caliber weapon, it should shatter instantly. This was not my experience. 
 You also can't shoot through cover like in the Call of Duty series. As far as the controls are 
 concerned, there are several options to customize the controls to your playing style (there is 
 even a setup that is reminiscent of the Call of Duty control scheme) . What I did miss is a jump 
 button. While you're trying to navigate across a field filled with obstacles and bullets flying 
 past your head, you really want to be able to jump over things. This is not possible. You can walk 
 up to an obstacle and look at it and then an option to vault the obstacle is flashed on the screen. 
 This would be fine if we were playing a slow-paced tactical shooter, but for battlefield combat 
 it doesn't quite cut it. They do attempt a hide-behind-cover option that was first seen in Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. They pull it off without too many problems. This is the only thing that you really see 
 in this game that you haven't seen before in a World War II shooter. 
  
  Multiplayer in this game was a huge disappointment. It appears to have been thrown in as an after-thought. 
 There is only one game mode: Control the flag territory. You have to choose a class before you 
 begin the match. There are a very limited number of weapon options, and the only vehicle that you 
 can drive is the tank. There are no weapon upgrades, and the rank changes bring nothing new to 
 the table. The environments in multiplayer are bland and lifeless. Also, when you are creating 
 a room to play in, you have no option in ranked mode to invite your friends to join the battle. 
 If a friend is going to play with you, then you have to hope that they can find your game hidden 
 within the list of all the other games that are available. There is no split screen option for 
 either online or local gameplay. There is also no Cooperative gameplay for the campaign (which 
 might have saved this title) . 
  
  Here's the bottom line about Brothers In Arms Hell's Highway. It's got nice graphics, but they're 
 nothing that really stands out to you. The single player campaign is nothing new. We've all battled 
 the Germans in Europe before and this game brings nothing new to the table in that aspect. The 
 controls get the job done, but they could have been better. The multiplayer was an after-thought 
 that is deeply disappointing. With games right around the corner like Call of Duty World at War, 
 Hell's Highway will quickly become an after-thought. This might warrant a rental to experience 
 a new take on the single player campaign, but it would be wrong to recommend this as a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrugh
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Today is one of few days whereby a grown adult can feel excited, like a child on Christmas' eve, 
 only to be disappointed with the reality that there are no presents under the tree. Having concealed 
 the multiplayer experience and details from the BIA community, with quotes like, "We're so excited 
 for multiplayer, that we have to wait to tell you," at the end of the day, is a blatant misleading 
 marketing ploy to create hype over what is a terrible multi-player experience. As a graduate student 
 studying for his M. F. A. in Cinematography and Film Production, I used to want to work for your 
 company, but I feel so offended by your companies blatant lies, that I now completely disrespect 
 you as developers.
  
  I want to touch on the Multi-player experience first, not that the single-player isn't important, 
 it's just that this game could have stirred up a community rivaling Halo, but now will sit at the 
 bottom-rung with games like Shadowrun. 
  
  First MP problem: It's been how many years since Halo 2? 5 years? One thing that I completely don't 
 understand, is how a company can create a multiplayer game, in a post Halo 2 world, that can leave 
 out something so basic as a PARTY SYSTEM. Yes, a party system is no where to be found this 21st 
 Century game. As many of you know, the lack of a party system is so detrimental to the LIVE experience, 
 that without it, it renders an online experience with friends a house-chore, rather than a fun 
 game.
  
  Second MP problem: this game lacks a complete sense of innovation for online play. I don't know 
 about you, but after having played both BIA: Road to Hill 30 and BIA: Earned in Blood, I imagined 
 the great potential a game like this could have online, especially in High-def. In Hell's Highway, 
 the online experience is so pathetic, that it's hard to believe that this game is being released 
 in the next-gen. 
  
  Here are some examples of what I think would have made a better online experience. 1. 4vs4, where 
 each person has two/three squads of three people. Each squad could be loaded out differently, e. g. 
 mortar squad, bazooka squad, Heavy MG Squad, Support Squad, Assualt Squad, Tank Squad. Each player 
 could choose differently how to load-out their squads. So, say if you and I, and two others, played 
 together, we could strategize very easily, opposed to the mayhem that ensues online in BF: Bad 
 Company. Communication between 4 players is so much more effective than in teams of 8+, but what 
 would be more amazing, is that most would be AI, therefore, the communication would be so much 
 more effective and fun, and tactical. Imagine, I could load-out my squads with purely support troops, 
 another player with handling mortar teams, and the other two players could load-out their squads 
 with assault and bazooka teams. It would be like warfare, more like a BF experience, or a COD4 
 experience, but with the controlled/tactical aspects of BIA. A customization and ranking system 
 (similar to Halo 3) , an XP system like COD4/BF: BC, and this game could have shattered the online 
 expectations. Instead, the Hell's Highway online is doomed an stark decrease of the LIVE community.
 
  
  The animation online is last-gen. For example, when someone is kneeling, they don't pivot from 
 knee to foot, like you would assume they'd do, like they do in any other game that's come out in 
 the past few years, instead, you see a soldier swiveling around on a virtual "lazy-susan," just 
 spinning around. No head turn, to gun turn, the whole body just slides around like a rigamortis 
 corpse. The textures were dulled down considerably online, so don't expect to find the beauty of 
 SP here. The 10v10 mode is so poorly executed to the point of boredom, and the lack of realism 
 in MP is ridiculous. The guy who has the MG42 can just run around and shoot it by himself. This 
 is just the beginning of the slippery slope that players will feel when logging online with this 
 game. Bugs and Glitches litter most players experience online, and the lag makes almost impossible 
 to snipe. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
