-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bully: Scholarship Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/bullyscholarshipedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Matchless, amazingly crafted gameworld.
 Fantastic, funny dialogue.
 Great voice acting and overall sound design.
 Solid extra content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frequent crashes, bugs, and glitches.
 Inconsistent frame rate and other minor annoyances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,818 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar Vancouver
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Mar 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bully's enhanced rerelease is raucously entertaining, but you may need to look past some frustrating 
 glitches to get the most out of it. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Bully: Scholarship Edition Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                
    function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video 
 Review               

 Return to school to see if Jimmy has learned any new tricks in Bully: Scholarship Edition.      
  Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Matchless, amazingly crafted gameworld 
  &nbsp;      Fantastic, funny dialogue  &nbsp;      Great voice acting and overall sound design 
  &nbsp;      Solid extra content.                The Bad            Frequent crashes, bugs, and 
 glitches  &nbsp;      Inconsistent frame rate and other minor annoyances.                      
 After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Bug Fixes    Posted: 
 Nov 4, 2008 12:26 pm PT      After multiple patches, the Xbox 360 version of Bully is a lot less 
 broken than it was at the time of our original review. There are still plenty of glitches in there, 
 but its at least conceivable now that you might make it through the entire game without it 
 ever causing your console to freeze up. &nbsp;               

  Jimmy Hopkins is not your standard video game hero. In Bully: Scholarship Edition, he breaks a 
 drunken schoolteacher out of an asylum, helps the lunch lady drug her date, steals panties from 
 the girls' dorm, and takes pictures of snotty kids sitting on a homeless Santa's lap. But this 
 is not your typical game, and 15 months after its release on the PlayStation 2, Bully's gameplay 
 stands tall and proud. On its own, the original was already an embarrassment of pleasures, but 
 additional features have been added to this enhanced version, including some local two-player minigames, 
 new missions, new classes, and other less-noticeable goodies. If you haven't yet played Bully, 
 now is the time to catch up with one of the better gaming experiences in recent years. However, 
 Xbox 360 owners should stand warned: though Rockstar Games has promised that a patch is in the 
 works, we experienced major bugs on that platform on multiple machines.  

           Jimmy Hopkins is smooth with the ladeez.      

  Provided that you play on the Wii 
 or escape the wrath of the Xbox 360 version's bounteous bugs, you'll find an insanely entertaining 
 experience that overcomes its small gameplay frustrations with heavy doses of humor and attitude. 
 As new-kid-on-the-block Jimmy, you find your sneering self dumped at Bullworth Academy, a private 
 school populated by the usual cliques we all came to know and hate in our own adolescences. By 
 fulfilling missions, you'll progress from one chapter to the next, alternately gaining sway over 
 one social circle while alienating another. One of Bully's many brilliant aspects is the variety 
 it throws into these tasks. At one point, you'll man a potato-spewing turret to defend arm-flailing, 
 bedwetting nerds from invading jocks; at another, a professor instructs you to infiltrate the preppies' 
 dorm and kill a prized Venus flytrap. In fact, some of the most amusing missions were created specifically 
 for the Scholarship Edition and revolve around a Kriss Kringle gone bad.  

  The story at the heart of Bully is incredibly involving, and Jimmy is both charming and exasperatingly 
 cocky. He's also believable, and likely to remind you of at least one person you know or knew in 
 your younger years. The enormous surrounding cast of goofball nerds and slick-haired greasers deserves 
 equal praise, from the obese and enuretic Algie to Mandy, the head cheerleader with a surprising 
 streak of insecurity. The success here is twofold. Firstly, you have an incredible script bursting 
 with both cringe-inducing realism and snort-out-loud one-liners. A romantic interest says "I'm 
 such a player" after flowers and a kiss; cafeteria cook Edna tells you that hawking a loogie into 
 the mystery stew gives it flavor. At first glance, these moments seem to play to stereotype, but 
 each character transcends labels and comes across as remarkably individual. Secondly, the voice 
 acting is utterly spectacular, from the main cast to the hysterical quips from minor characters 
 you overhear in your travels.  

  You're hardly stuck moving in a straight march from one mission to the next. As you play, more 
 and more of the academy and its surrounding community open up, giving you plenty of leeway to explore 
 Bully's many unique nooks and crannies. If you choose to stay on campus, you can attend class in 
 the morning or afternoon. Standbys such as gym (dodgeball time!) and chemistry are still here, 
 but four new classes have been added, and they are arguably more entertaining than the holdovers. 
 In biology class, you must carve open a specimen and remove its vital organs in an allotted amount 
 of time -- and it's much tougher than it sounds. In geography, you must place the appropriate flag 
 on its corresponding country. Math takes a Brain Age approach by asking you to quickly solve simple 
 math problems, whereas music class involves a rhythm-based minigame. Passing your lesson means 
 gaining a new reward, whether it be new clothing, new melee combos, or better aim with your slingshot. 

  Of course, you can skip class entirely (and risk being seen by the keen eyes of prefects and police 
 officers) and tool around on your own. Here, you can bully other kids to your heart's content, 
 or save the meeker students from their own bullies by beating up the aggressors. Close combat is 
 on the simple side, especially after you unlock various combinations. However, there are times 
 when you'll need to handle multiple enemies at once, which makes for a greater challenge. If you 
 choose to explore your inner intimidator, there are plenty of ways to do it outside of fisticuffs, 
 though. You can shoot bottle rockets at fellow students, give wedgies, stuff them into lockers 
 or garbage cans, or taunt them once you've sufficiently whittled down their health bars. If you'd 
 rather follow the straight (mostly) and narrow, you can romance the ladies (and a few gents) by 
 giving them flowers -- or chocolates, in the case of the big-boned gals -- which usually merits a sloppy-sounding 
 kiss. Alternately, you can run quick errands for townspeople, mow lawns for extra cash, participate 
 in bike races, drop some quarters into arcade machines and gun for a high score, egg cars, take 
 yearbook photos, or head to the local carnival and lounge with the little people. You could probably 
 sprint through the main quest in 10 hours or so, but could easily spend four times that number 
 if you wanted to see everything Bully has to offer.  

  If you want to extend the value even further, you can try out the local two-player minigames that 
 are exclusive to this edition of Bully. These games take classes and arcade games from the single-player 
 experience and transform them into competitive minitournaments. There are 10 of these events in 
 total, ranging from photography and geography to English and Consumo. These minigames are good 
 for some quick entertainment, though they don't add a lot to the overall package. But given that 
 they tie in nicely with the game proper and use all four of the new classes, they serve as more 
 than just contrived add-ons.  

  As you move from one task to the next, you will discover some of Bully's idiosyncrasies. This is 
 a game that does a lot, though mechanically speaking, not every aspect of the game works as well 
 as every other. Triggering an event or opening a door can sometimes be a pain because, for whatever 
 reason, even standing right on top of the marker won't always generate the prompt; bicycle and 
 skateboard controls can be loose, which in turn leads to some frustration on certain missions; 
 and some targeting foibles can make it a pain to punch or aim, among other small peculiarities. 
 Some of these quirks are specific to the Wii version. Motion controls are used in place of standard 
 button pressing for such activities as punching, aiming ranged weapons, throwing off tackles, and 
 more. In some cases, such as with the biology minigame or standard scuffles, these work out really 
 well. In other cases, such as a series of boxing missions, they are repetitive and annoying. Overall, 
 however, the addition of the Wii Remote is neither an improvement nor a liability.  

  On the other side of things, the Xbox 360 version lacks the stability of the Wii release. During 
 our testing period, we experienced multiple crashes and system freezes. Additionally, we saw bugs 
 that caused Jimmy to get stuck in place in the middle of the street for no apparent reason, twice 
 had mission NPCs freeze while running (which forced us to reset the task) , and encountered countless 
 examples of blinking geometry, three- or four-second freezes, and sound hiccups. Similar reports 
 are widespread, so if you are considering a purchase, you may want to wait for the announced patch 
 to be released, or better yet, grab the Wii iteration, which exhibited a few small glitches but 
 nothing to the extent of the Xbox 360 version.  

           The new classes are a welcome addition.      

  Of course, the high-definition capabilities 
 of the Xbox 360 make it easier to see the visual hiccups, and in general, Bully: Scholarship Edition 
 doesn't live up to current-day standards from a visual point of view. However, there's something 
 to be said for seeing every bursting pustule on Edna's face. Bullworth is rendered with incredible 
 skill and style, from restrooms dingy enough to make you wrinkle your nose to a beautifully designed 
 carnival funhouse that hits all the right notes. On the Wii, you won't get an equally crisp presentation, 
 but the hardware's performance capabilities make Bully a more comfortable fit on the Wii and better 
 hide the awkward animations and pixelated shadows that are obvious on the Xbox 360. Both versions 
 have an occasionally erratic frame rate, though the Xbox 360 version seems to be harder hit in 
 this regard. Regardless of the platform, you'll get an equally amazing sonic experience. As previously 
 mentioned, the voice acting is outstanding, and everything from ambient sound effects to the eccentric 
 minimalist soundtrack strikes just the right chord.  

  If you've played Bully already on the PlayStation 2, the extras in the Scholarship Edition may 
 amuse you, but they don't justify purchasing the game all over again. On the other hand, if you 
 skipped it the first time around, this is a great excuse to catch up on what you missed. Bully 
 offers plenty of memorable moments and crafts an adolescent world that is both surreal and painfully 
 truthful, so don't be surprised if it causes you to relive portions of your own painful youth. 
 Xbox 360 technical issues and other peculiarities aside, this is a fun and boisterous game that 
 will ring true for anyone who has endured the unique adventures of student life.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (107 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing bully, its not the bestest game ever made though there are elements of this game 
 not found in most of my collection. I am generally a FPS, RTS, and RPG fan, never have i enjoyed 
 GTA (except Lost and the damned) it was just so irritating that guns and gang culture where being 
 popularised so much. So Bully is a different take on that sandbox gen, lots of jokes on the stiff 
 upper lips, quaint location set in Mass far far away from the raging problems in San Andreas and 
 an almost animated graphics interface makes it incredibley simple to understand just exactly needs 
 to be done, and for a game sake, this is perfect.
  
  If you are one of those people like myself that love the sheer awesomeness of games, the gameplay 
 that isn't overtly complicated and have time to chill out with a pina colada and your controller 
 then Bully is a game that must be sitting in your game collection wishing to played every so often.
 
  
  Bargain prices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Bullworth Academy! Come and enjoy a game of Grottoes n' Gremlins with your friendly 
 neighborhood Nerds, discuss about financial profits and plummets with the outgoing Preps, whip 
 out that oil and smother it on your face as you work on vehicles with the talented Greasers, or 
 play a quick game of FoosBall with the shirt tearing Jocks. Bullworth Academy has it all, or does 
 it?
  
  In Bully: Scholarship Edition you play as Jimmy Hopkins, a 15 year old boy who has just enrolled 
 into one of the most prestigious boarding schools in New England, Bullworth Academy. He soon discovers 
 that Bullworth isn't your average learning center. The school is overrun with enraged bullies, 
 psychopathic nerds, stuck up snobbish preps, attitude driven greasers, and large brainless jocks. 
 As the new kid, everyone decides to pick on Jimmy; they pull pranks on him, call him names, push 
 him around, whatever you can think of you name it. Jimmy decides to teach every one of these cliques 
 a lesson, a lesson in public humiliation. He comes to the conclusion that in order to bring peace 
 to this deteriorating school he needs to put each clique in its place, one nosebleed at a time. 
 Everybody gets what's coming to themeverybody.
  
  If you've ever played a Grand Theft Auto game you should know what to expect if you play Bully, 
 if you haven't played a Grand Theft Auto game well.. good. that's why I'm here. Bully can best 
 be described as a sandbox game. You are given the freedom to do anything you want whenever you 
 want. If you want to shove a nerd in a garbage can then go shove a nerd in a garbage can, if you 
 want to slap a "Kick Me" sign on a teacher's back go slap a "Kick Me" sign on a teacher's back. 
 It's just like that Burger King Quote "Have it you way". 
  
  Aside from your ummmm "extracurricular activities" you can choose to go to class; it is a school 
 after all. Bully offers a variety of classes from simple mathematics (get ready for a brain malfunction) 
 to a nicely orchestrated musical course. Each time you pass a class you are awarded handsomely. 
 Art class, for example, allows you to receive large health bonuses if you can get a girl to exchange 
 oxygen with you. (You know what I mean) Going to class is essential if you want to get through 
 the more difficult parts of the game, and can prove to be a very valuable asset when you least 
 expect it. 
  
  After you're done messing arou- I mean taking care of business you can complete various missions 
 to progress through the story line. The missions often range from beating down a certain number 
 of opponents to collecting a specific number of items within the allotted time. The missions are 
 well varied, and are surprisingly fun to accomplish. One moment you'll find yourself tipping over 
 a portable bathroom with a teacher in it, and next you'll find yourself egging some rich kid's 
 house; the fun factor is definitely there assuming that you enjoy that kind of stuff. 
  
  If you've played Bully for the Playstation 2 you aren't missing much with Bully: Scholarship edition 
 for the Xbox 360. Aside from the enhanced graphics, new classes, and missions, Bully offers the 
 same experience as before if not better. The world of Bullworth Academy is beautifully rendered 
 and gives off that unique vibe of an actual school- minus the deranged cliques of course. There 
 are quite a few glitches here and there, and a little bit of texture popping; however, the in-game 
 soundtrack is absolutely phenomenal and compensates for it. 
  
  Overall: If Grand Theft Auto had a younger (sort of) kid friendly brother, Bully would be it. It 
 offers an experience unparallel to any other, and it shows that not all games need blood to be 
 a smash hit. With its absurd humor, free roaming gameplay, and nicely constructed musical score, 
 Bully is game that you won't soon forget. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnydoubt
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  Although there's no online play, Bully is a great game as you take the role of a kid, A kid named 
 Jimmy Hopkins. The story line-
  Jimmy is dropped off at a school named Bullworth Academy, as his mum has married another man (who, 
 quite honestly is old enough to be her Father) , and now you - Jimmy Hopkins has gotta work your 
 way up to the top of the school.
  SOME activities-
  = Racing
  #Go-kart #bike
  =fare-ground
  =Kissing
  = Dodge ball
  =& of course, CLASSES
  You will fight your way through 
 different cliks You will try to win that special girl, OR boy.
  
  This game will keep you occupied for A LONG TIME
  
  just watch out for the prefects!
  
 
  there is new missions, new classes, new mini games, new characters, & ACHIEVEMENTS!
  
  There are 5 areas, Bullworth Academy, Old Bullworth Vale, Bullworth Town, New Coventry & Blue Skies 
 Industrial Area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slicktopick
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  RuneScape es un MMORPG (Massive Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game en ingls) (juego de rol multijugador 
 masivo online) comercializado por Jagex, e implementado en lenguaje Java. Existen ms de 15 millones 
 de cuentas gratuitas activas, y han sido creadas ms de 136 millones de cuentas. RuneScape fue 
 creado por Andrew Gower, el creador de DeviousMUD, predecesor de Runescape, en 1998. Una vez reescrito 
 y renombrado, la primera versin de RuneScape fue lanzada al pblico el 4 de enero de 2001 en versin 
 beta. Dispone de la opcin de jugar gratis y la opcin de pago. La interfaz del juego es simple 
 y se puede acceder desde la mayora de los navegadores.
  
  RuneScape tiene lugar en un mundo de fantasa llamado Gielinor, el cual est dividido en varios 
 reinos, regiones y ciudades. Los jugadores pueden viajar a travs de Gielinor a pie, mediante hechizos 
 de teletransportacin y otros mecanismos. Cada regin ofrece diferentes tipos de monstruos, recursos 
 y aventuras que desafan a los jugadores. A diferencia de muchos MMORPG, no tiene una historia 
 lineal que debe ser seguida. Los jugadores en la pantalla son avatares personalizables, con sus 
 propias metas y objetivos. Los jugadores pueden pelear tanto contra monstruos como contra otros 
 jugadores, completar aventuras ("quests") , aumentar su experiencia en cada una de las habilidades 
 ("skills") , o conseguir oro y metas fsicas. Los jugadores pueden interactuar entre ellos mediante 
 el comercio, conversando o jugando minijuegos (de combate o cooperativos) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 1:10 am PT
Review:  It's very easy to say that Bully is just like Grand Theft Auto, but at school. This does go a long 
 way to giving an impression of the basic gameplay, but there are a few differences. It's a fun 
 look at school rivalries and some of the immature backstabbing, mouthing off and general behaviour 
 that you might see at school, though often exagerrated and elevated to the edge of satire. Much 
 ballyhoo was made of glitches when the game was released; as my console is generally offline all 
 the time I don't usually patch games, but knowing it's history I did patch this game before playing 
 it, and came across no major glitches.
  
  Bully has you play as Jimmy Hopkins, being dropped off at Bullworth Academy by your mother and 
 your billionth step-dad. The initial sequence proves Jimmy is not afraid to mouth off and doesn't 
 like listening much to authority. The principal takes you into his office and gives you a good 
 talking to, advising you to behave yourself. Then you are introduced to a few of your dorm mates 
 who you befriend. The game is relatively open-ended, allowing you to explore at your own leisure, 
 and take on missions as they unlock. The game is on a daily cycle, and some missions and activities 
 may only be started during specific times. You will also need to go to sleep by 2am, or you will 
 pass out. Classes at Bullworth Academy also occur twice per day, though you do not need to attend. 
 It is beneficial to do so, as you can gain bonuses from completing them.
  
  Each class plays out like a minigame of sorts. A few of these are quick time events and aren't 
 very inspired, but there are a few fun ones as well. English gives you a handful of letters and 
 you have to make as many words as possible before the time limit runs out, and Biology has you 
 choosing utensils such as a scalpel or forceps and dissecting animals. Geography presents an unlabeled 
 map and requires you drag the correct flags onto the appropriate countries or territories. Completing 
 the class earns you a bonus of some kind. Completing Geography can reveal collectible items on 
 your map, and English helps with your taunts or apologies so you are better at intimidating people 
 or getting out of trouble. You can complete each class 5 times, and they get harder as you go along 
 while offering better advantages.
  
  While you aren't required to attend class at the specified time, prefects on the school campus 
 are on the lookout for truants, and will also bust you for other indiscretions. For example, if 
 you hit someone, break into a locker or are walking around after curfew, they will chase after 
 you. You can usually just tap a button to escape if they get hold of you, though some actions will 
 get you busted straight away if they get their hands on you, such as hitting girls. You can venture 
 outside of Bullworth Academy into town, and the same indiscretions will have the police after you. 
 Neither of them are hard to get away from, but are a deterrent from getting into fights unecessarily.
 
  
  At first it seems Jimmy is a bit of a delinquent, and he is. He certainly doesn't mind breaking 
 the rules, but usually he is not with evil intent. Often his acts of violence are to prove a point, 
 even if it is a little misguided. Jimmy's run-ins with the various groups in the game (such as 
 the Nerds, Jocks and Townies) is usually to teach them a lesson. In truth Jimmy is not the real 
 bully of the game; often he instigates violence as a result of someone picking on somebody else. 
 Often it seems Jimmy accepts the missions presented to him by others not because he really likes 
 to help out, but because he knows that if he doesn't stand up for these people, they aren't going 
 to stand up for themselves. There were a few head scratching moments where I couldn't figure out 
 why he would accept a mission presented to him, but for the most part it makes sense.
  
  You can load up your map that will show you the location of the current class and missions you 
 can activate. It will also show other points of interest, such as shops around town, jobs you can 
 do to earn money, and bike races. Money can be used to buy items, but I never found myself out 
 of cash. The game provides you plenty and you don't need to spend it too often. Sometimes you can 
 help people by doing a simple errand to earn more bonuses.
  
  Holding down the left trigger will target people, and you can taunt them, talk to them, attack 
 them or tackle them. This makes combat easy to control and you can block incoming attacks. Throughout 
 the game you also learn combos from the local hobo which can have different effects such as knocking 
 down your opponent, which can be handy when you are faced with several opponents. You can also 
 select weapons to use which are unlocked as the game progresses. These start with basics such as 
 marbles you can drop to trip up pursuers and fire crackers, to the slingshot which will be your 
 mainstay ranged weapon, to bottle rockets. You can also pick up objects such as bats, or even throw 
 garbage lids at your opponents. There are a few 'boss' fights in the game where your opponent reacts 
 a little different than normal, such as the big bruiser who will attempt to ram you and require 
 you to run out of the way, or someone wielding a sledge hammer.
  
  It's the characters that really standout in Bully. All of the main characters that you will meet 
 for missions are quite distinct and entertaining in their exaggerated mannerisms, such as the drunk 
 teacher, the lunch lady Edna who spits in the food, the strict headmaster, the slimy Gary and the 
 tepid Petie. Missions are quite varied, and completion of missions usually makes more missions 
 available to you. The game is broken into chapters, and the beginning of each chapter represents 
 a major progression in the story. Some missions may call for collecting things, whether they be 
 panties from the girls dorm (because a teacher wants them to do their laundry...) or buying Edna 
 some items for a date. Others are combat oriented, where you have to defend a position or protect 
 a person or group of people. There are even a few stealth missions where you have to avoid teachers 
 in the school after dark, or employees in the local mental asylum. All told there is a lot of variety, 
 and a few missions have their own mechanics that are outside of the general sandbox gameplay, such 
 as riding on the back of a bike firing your slingshot at enemies chasing you on their bikes.
  
  There are a few 'vehicles' you can use in the game. You can whip out your skateboard at just 
 about any time. A nice touch is that you can hitch a ride on cars, but seeing as you can skate 
 faster than them, you never will after the first time. You can steal peoples bikes, or buy your 
 own which you can access at garages around the town and school. It is possible to ride scooters 
 if you can get a hold of them, but the cops will bust you if you aren't wearing a helmet. There 
 is plenty of clothing to unlock or buy as you play the game, and while minor it does have effects 
 on the gameplay. The game advises during loading screens that prefects will enforce wearing your 
 uniform, but I never ran into trouble for not wearing it. However if you wear an odd headpiece, 
 people will stop and laugh at you for wearing something so dorky, and girls won't kiss you if you 
 aren't dressed nice. Kissing girls grants you a health bonus. While getting cozy with girls (or 
 boys) doesn't affect the story in any way, it is funny to kiss one girl, then kiss another and 
 see the first one run away in disgust.
  
  As a remake of a PS2 game, graphically Bully isn't up to par with what the Xbox 360 is capable 
 of, but it doesn't look bad. During cutscenes the facial animations and subtle body movements are 
 enough to help convey the message. The voice acting is delivered with gusto and suits the tone 
 of the game well. As mentioned, there were very few glitches once the game was patched, and mainly 
 these were 'twitching' graphical hitches, or Jimmy doing a full spin in his chair on the odd occassion 
 in a cutscene when he went to class. The camera is usually fine as you can control it in most places, 
 but in a few places it switches between fixed places, such as in some tight corridors. When being 
 chased, this switch can lead you to double back into your pursuers and get busted. I also wish 
 that when you had finished the main story, that unfinished classes were made available for you 
 to complete at any time. Otherwise you will have to leave your console on and wait for the allotted 
 time to roll around. There is a 2 player mode, but this is just a gauntlet of some of the minigames 
 you do in classes, or arcade games you can play in certain locations in the main game. A few of 
 them are exclusive to this mode. However they won't hold your interest for long.
  
  Bully is a solid game, and will keep you busy for 15 to 20 hours depending on how much of a completionist 
 you are, as there are a number of collectibles and unlockables if you want to go the extra distance. 
 However what will drive you is the ineractions between the characters, and finding out what mess 
 Jimmy is going to get himself into next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyConstantin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  No, just kidding. Bully: Scholarship Edition is a great and cool game, that lets the player do 
 want ever he wants. It's like dropping the Grand Theft Auto series in an high school.
  
  The original Bully, a. k. a. Canis Canem Edit, came out in 2006. It was a fun and great game for 
 one player. The Scholarship Edition is even better. It contains new missions, new classes, new 
 mini-games and an alright co-op mode for two players. Too bad that you can't walk around thru the 
 city like in GTA: San Andreas, but the mini-games are still fun.
  
  For the people that didn't played the first Bully, the game is about becoming the boss over 4 different 
 gangs, and I ain't talkin' about Crips or Bloods, but about groups like nerds, jockey's, preps 
 and a bunch of Rock 'n' Roll dude's.
  
  But what's really unique about this game are the possibilities of f*ckin' around. You can simply 
 pull wedgies, throw up graffiti, egg cars, steal bikes, trespass, kick the crap out of little kids 
 and other crazy stuff like skateboard thru school and picking lockers.
  
  Bully: Scholarschip Edition is an great game with many possibilities and a lot of fun things to 
 do. It's a must have for every free-roam lover or Grand Theft Auto fan. It's out now for the PS3 
 and Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korrupt-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Ever been that kid. pea brained jock? or were you the nerd with thick frame glasses? or the rich 
 inbred kid? or, i bet alot of you were the kid who got smashed by all of the above. well, its payback 
 time friends, and it is fun.
  
  Your gold-digger skank mum has dropped you off at the worst school ever. think of your school and 
 times it by 100 in badness. everyone is filled with steriods, rage or something else. and your 
 the new kid, plump, good looking with a shaved head. a mini turnbull AC [for those who seen the 
 Warriors] , and boy, can you fight. your only friends are a psychopath named Gary and a loner-loser 
 named Petey. one by one you must take over the Cliques of the school including:
  
  Nerds
  Preppys
  Bullys
  Jocks
  Greasers
  Townies
  
  and win the school! 
  
  the game, 
 as any rockstar game is, is open ended. Chapter 1 may seem a bit stupid and clausterphobic, but 
 dont give up, cause when you hit chapter 2 the gates of Bullworth acadmey swing open, and the world 
 is yours.
  
  The first part of the game is very Hand holding, the most for any Rockstar game ive played, but 
 this is good, because theres alot to digest. 
  
  as per Rockstar game some moron has dropped a bunch of collectables, Eg, Gnomes need to be smashed, 
 Rubber bands need to be picked up, and Grettos and Goblins cards need to be collected. All these 
 things equals alot of time spent doing stuff trying to get that almighty 100%. 
  
  Charaters: 10 
  [from the nerds to the townies, all of the charaters are mental or great... and 
 all realitable to]
  
  Gameplay: 9.5 
  
  Achievments: 8.5 
  [a sweet mix of easy (pick 50 flowers) hard (win all go kart races) and throw xbox controller at 
 TV (break 300 bottles) . problem: not enough, 20g off each achievments too easy
  
  Story: 10 
  [Helping the local weirdo get his books? or cutting a frog open? its all good and 
 gross at bullworth, and the missions are as if the Bard wrote them 
  himself
  
  Online: N-A 
  [no online, could have had a little 1 on 1 battle online thing going, but no. there 
 is a two player choice though, so thats good.]
  
  Difficulty: 5 
  [not to easy, not to hard, goldilocks kinda game]
  
  Collectables: 10
  [Lots to find, hours 
 of goodys in there]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestarter911
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  To be honest, i didn't think the people of Rockstar Games, the kings of debauchery and sin in the 
 gaming industry, the men behind the infamous Hot Coffee incident, Manhunt, and the trip square to 
 hell that is Grand Theft Auto, could honestly pull this off. Sure it had some controversy (encourages 
 bulling, allows you the option of kissing another male, etc) . But i dont care this game is excellent. 
 Good combat, decent graphics, and memorable characters. The Ai is easy to beat, bosses arent memorable 
 and missions are easy but i still think its a good game. Theres a ton of content and a good amount 
 of achievements that keep you there and there are some cool weapons and classes as well. But it 
 is TOO EASY. Serioulsy they practically give it to you. But all in all its a good game tih alot of 
 content and soem memorable characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  The game Bully is a quality game, first off. This is a game which suffers from a number of bugs, 
 for whatever reason, but it still is a very funny, enjoyable game. It isn't GTA IV, in graphics, 
 sound quality, storyline, or anything like that. It obviously won't compare to any GTA game considering 
 all of those are classics. What it can do, though, is be a game of merit on its own. It does share 
 some similarities to GTA, though, such as the load screen. Jimmy also handles just like Claude 
 or Tommy Vercetti did, which is both good and bad; good because it makes the game less challenging 
 (really, this game isn't meant to keep people stuck on a level) , and it is bad because it can get 
 clumsy.
  
  There are many times where goals won't show up. There are times when Jimmy sits down and does a 
 360 degree spin on his chair. There are times when the game freezes up. Do any of these problems 
 lead to a person not being able to play? Well, they can... but generally will not. Anyone who puts 
 this game down because of technical issues is really missing out on an otherwise quality story 
 which is often hilarious. The game is clearly based on Catcher in the Rye, which is an excellent 
 book with an enjoyable protagonist. Jimmy does just as good a job as Holden does in showing the 
 weird times that high school can be.
  
  The game is structured in a series of mini-games, each one surprisingly enjoyable. Classes are 
 actually pretty fun and not really a chore at all like one would think. All of them are very engaging 
 and original, except for English class, which is just a common variation of any scrambled word 
 game. Most of the combat is easy, and whether you are boxing, or racing bikes, or egging the rich 
 kids' houses (or being a bully) , everything feels like it fits. This game's only fault is technical 
 proficiency. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Now most people have probably played this game or heard of it. Its made by the same people who 
 made GTA so you pretty much know the drill. First things first no killing in this game. You can 
 knock people out but no killing and of course no guns. You play a young man who goes to a private 
 school who is being bullied. You go through missions GTA style to help win over the various groups 
 in the school. The missions are your run of the mill again GTA ones. They help you build yourself 
 up but they are nothing special. To be honest if you played this before I really do not see anything 
 major added to this game. The graphics are obviously better and the music is the same. The gameplay 
 is fun as is the game. This is a good game but if you have played the game before there is not 
 much here. If you can get the game on the cheap then I say get it if not wait. No real new ground 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  What a great idea! Make a game about almost everyone's worst portion of his or her life. Make it 
 chock full of clichs, which make it feel like a cross between West Side Story, The Outcasts and 
 Revenge of the Nerds. Give it an outstanding combat system along with tons of extras and you have 
 Bully: SE. 
  
  Bully tells the story of one Jimmy Hopkins, a juvenile delinquent whom an unfit mother and her 
 new husband drop off at the gates of his newest school. Everything under the sun is represented 
 here: jocks, greasers, nerds, and preppies. He also meets a couple lone wolves right off the bat 
 named Gary Smith and Pete. They opt to show Jimmy around his new stomping ground and help to build 
 the main focus of the game, which is taking over the school. 
  
  Bully plays as a free roaming action/adventure game similar to Grand Theft Auto. This time you 
 will not be killing anyone, but instead given the option to beat the snot out of anyone you come 
 across. You also have access to an array of unique weapons such as a gun that shoots bottle rockets, 
 marbles, eggs, and a trusty potato gun. That doesn't mean their won't be consequences, as authoritarian 
 figures run ramped around the campus and outside in the small surrounding town.
  
  The gameplay is well done but is almost always too easy. In fact, most of the game's side missions 
 should not take you more then a single try to complete. My favorite was the arcade games, which 
 take some ideas from arcade classics and give them a dose of Rockstar's famous humor. You will 
 also need to attend classes, but they can be fun too. The SE addition adds new classes and other 
 mini-games to draw the game out a few more hours, but again these are all quite simple. 
  
  Bully: SE has one major issue and that is glitches. One of these major glitches is missing errands 
 from npcs. These are mini quests that are given to you in order to reach a perfect 100% game. The 
 only way to fix this issue is to reload a saved game, and for some they may have to turn off their 
 Xbox and restart. There are also some minor graphical glitches, which show up in cut scenes, while 
 these are fully passable they are still quite annoying. 
  
  The replayability of Bully: SE is quite low. Even after completing all 38 achievements, there wasn't 
 anything else to motivate me to keep playing. The game is worth a look, even if it is only a rental; 
 just don't expect much after that though. Bully: SE is a unique game, but needs some bugs squashed 
 and more content to bring it to perfection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgrady
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition is an entertaining game that is generally easy, and leaves very little 
 reason to keep playing once you beat it.
  
  The story is a little better than I expected since the main character is ultimately attempting 
 to bring peace to the school even though his methods do not entirely make sense. But just because 
 the story has a good premise, that does not mean that it is well written. The dialogue is incredibly 
 cheesy and over-the-top with only a few funny lines in the entire game. Most of the humor came 
 from they types of missions that you get to perform and the actions of NPCs (like girls getting 
 jealous of one another when you go around kissing a bunch of them, and watching them either kick 
 you in the nads or beat each other up in a pretty fierce cat fight) . And while each group of students 
 reacts differently to the main character based on dynamic respect, that "dynamic" respect changes 
 only according to predetermined amounts based on mission that you do and not according to how you 
 treat the people directly. And wearing silly clothes will make people ridicule you, but that is 
 the only change. Dressing up or dressing like a particular clique will not grant you any extra 
 respect. Also, the music is pretty good but can become severely annoying after a few hours of the 
 same stuff.
  
  There are definitely some bugs in this game. The most common one keeps some of the errands from 
 showing up when they should, so that can make completing errands take longer. That is frustrating, 
 but it isn't too much of a problem. Another that occurred several times was that people, namely 
 girls, would take about 30 seconds to respond to my complements which meant that I'd be stuck unable 
 to do anything until they decided to respond. The problem that was the most annoying for me was 
 getting into the fight against the jocks and having the screen go black except for my health meter 
 and simultaneously having my directional control removed so that I could only move in the direction 
 I was facing and only turn when I got hit. You would think that since the 360 version released 
 much later than the original PS2 version of the game, and it came with extra content, that they 
 would have worked out some of the bugs, but appears that they haven't.
  
  For this new version of Bully, they added offline multiplayer that just lets you compete with a 
 friend for high scores in various mini-games from the single-player game (like arcade games and 
 mini-games from some of the classes) . The multiplayer adds nothing exciting, especially since it 
 is entirely offline and has no leaderboards. It takes my least favorite portion of the single player 
 game and allows me to play through that with someone else. And with nothing to unlock from the 
 multiplayer games, there is really no reason to even consider the multiplayer games unless you 
 and a friend are just that bored. Really, though, your friend would most likely be more entertained 
 watching you play through the story than playing with you in these contrived add-ons.
  
  One of the annoyances in the game is that it is easy to hit innocent bystanders unintentionally 
 if they are too close when you get in a fight with someone else. If that bystander is a younger 
 kid or a girl, it generally means you'll get busted pretty soon. It is also slightly annoying that 
 the prefects will usually completely ignore someone who is bullying you, and they automatically 
 turn against you when you fight even if it is only in response to someone else trying to fight 
 you. However, getting busted, even by the cops, really does nothing to set you back unless you 
 were in the middle of a mission. Similarly, getting knocked out in a fight or passing out from 
 staying up too late don't do much of anything. So the only motivation for not getting busted is 
 personal pride or, at worst, a bit of time put into a mission that is probably pretty easy anyway. 
 Getting busted by the cops can actually be used to transport yourself back to the campus if you 
 are in a hurry, so once you start using that, there is even less motivation to evade the authorities.
 
  
  The game is very easy with the most difficult parts being a few of the classes (the high levels 
 of music and biology took me a few tries, and shop was just annoying because the joystick rotation 
 would only work about half the time for me even when I was rotating it the right direction before 
 the prompt even came up) . Only a couple of the fights were difficult, and the hardest by far was 
 against the preps, but that was fairly early in the game. The later fights got significantly easier, 
 and all of the bike races and errands were easy. The go-kart races were difficult until I stopped 
 braking completely (including power slides) , and then I started consistently winning by at least 
 5 seconds on every race. The arcade games were a complete joke, and one was so easy that on my 
 first attempt, I got over seven times the required high score before growing insanely bored and 
 intentionally ending the game (I would have done that much sooner if I had known what the high 
 score was) . So Bully really does not present any kind of challenge, and the length comes primarily 
 from fairly tedious repetition and the inability to go directly from one mission to the next because 
 of class and curfew. But once I finished classes and stopped trying to make money at dodge ball 
 and keep-ups, the game went much faster. I actually completed over a third of the game (33% completion 
 according to the game saves) in one night after that, so it is not a very long game except when 
 you only have time to do two classes and one or two missions each day.
  
  As for the achievements, none of them are hard, but some take a lot of time and horrible repetition. 
 For instance, the running and biking 100km will both probably be unlocked late in the story, but 
 there is really no reason to use the skateboard except for the achievement. Since it is basically 
 the same speed but more difficult to control than running, after the first 8km, I just skitched 
 behind a car on Christmas day (so there was no clock) and read a book occasionally looking up to 
 ensure everything was still moving. I finally got the achievement after a few hours of that mindless 
 garbage, but I was happy to not have to use the skateboard anymore. And to get all the clothing 
 required for the 100% completion, be prepared to play about 150 games of dodge ball/keep-ups. Kickin' 
 the balls? That one didn't take too long, but since there is absolutely no other reason to kick 
 them, why should you have to kick them so many times for the achievement? And 300 bottles at the 
 carnival shooting range? Why not 10 badges, since those are mildly difficult to hit, but would 
 not be quite so boring? The point is just that the achievements are not in any way challenging 
 unless you happen to be one of the unfortunate people whose game requires over 40 of the errands 
 to be completed for the Perfection achievement (that's right, the biggest achievement in the game 
 is glitched to require a varying amount of actual completion) , and even then the only difficulty 
 is getting enough of the errands to appear.
  
  Bully is a mildly entertaining game that can keep your attention for all of a couple weeks assuming 
 you have a full time job and a life away from video games. And that is pretty sad considering that 
 included getting every single tedious achievement the game had to offer. There is just not enough 
 content to justify replaying this game, and the bugs that have not yet been corrected only serve 
 to counteract that wee bit of enjoyment that can be had when the game works. So Bully: Scholarship 
 Edition is fun, but not nearly good enough to justify paying full price to acquire. I suggest trying 
 to find someone to borrow it from, or possibly split the cost with a close friend since neither 
 of you will need it for more than a few weeks. I would like to rate it at a 7.3, but since Gamespot 
 changed the rating system, I'll have to bump it down to a 7.0 because I can not justify moving 
 up with the games I have rated at 7.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  First off.. Rockstar is known for its well known gta series (better than this game) this game Bully 
 is interesting because it takes place during school... The game for the 360 at least looks like 
 an exact port... also the game freezes up, has bad load times especially when going back and forth 
 through school and has some characters that are really annoying... Although it is based on school... 
 I wish they would have added more classes, more groups of people, (goths, emos, preps) and more 
 stuff to do... The missions are ridiculously easy and your character can take on alot of people 
 with his moves and win easily... The game is linear to a fault and is almost like fable in some 
 ways..... I wish you could do more or if it was in an urban setting instead of a private school.... 
 But for what it is its worth a rental and the xbox points from it are easy to get.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Bully is a Action, Adventure and sandbox game made my Rockstar Games and Mad Doc Software. Bully 
 had been released on PS2 and XBOX on the 25th October in 2006, and a year and a half later, "Bully: 
 Scholarship Edition" has been released for the Wii and 360 console.
  
  The Gameplay has not changed a great deal, there is a few new missions and the fact you can play 
 Mini-Games with 2 player. 
  
  You play as Jimmy Hopkins, who is a very poor behaved student. His Mum has abandoned him in one 
 of the worst schools ever and you have to attend the school. The school is full of bully's and 
 is a tough place to be. The school has 4 different style of pupils, such as jock, nerd, townie, 
 bully and like that. Whilst in the school you have to attend classes (or truant them) and you can 
 also do story missions. 
  
  The game is sandbox, meaning you can explore the world and do other things. You have a bit of a 
 schedule in the game. You go to sleep at anytime (after 8pm) and wake up at 8am in the morning. 
 Your first class starts at 9:00 and lasts until 11:30, However, class is opinionated so you can 
 skip it if you want but you will have to avoid prefixes and police trying to get you back to class. 
 After class is over you have 1:30 to play around, start a mission if you want to then you are back 
 at class again until 3. After 3 you have more time to do as you wish, and longer time to complete 
 the story. After 8pm you have the opinion to go to bed, which you don't have to but you will pass 
 out after 2 in the morning and wake up at 8.
  
  You have classes which is an opinion if you want to attend them or not and I would say it is best 
 to do so as you can get rewards. You have a variety of classes, such as geography, math, English, 
 chemistry, biology and so on. Some other classes unlock later on in the game like Photography. 
 Going to class is the best thing to do, as you are rewarded for each class you complete. The best 
 class to attend is gym and you learn fighting moves and combo moves to help you in a fight. Some 
 classes like Biology are very hard to pass and take a lot of trying, I always use to truant Biology 
 classes because I just couldn't do it.
  
  The cons against this game are the freeze issues. If you are not hooked up to Xbox-Live then your 
 screwed, and this game will not play good on your machine. I patched the game up by Xbox Live and 
 it runs fine, except I did encounter one freeze after patching it. Due to the fact it is actually 
 the console which freezes aswell as the game, you will need to restart the console quite often.
 
  
  My overall impressions:
  If you had the PS2 version then it might not be worth a Pickup, there is not a whole lot new here. 
 It looks better to look at, has 8 new story missions but the story missions are just like every 
 other in the game. The freezing is a issue too, If you don't have at least Xbox Silver then its 
 not worth getting the game, just to prevent the freezing. I'd like to say that its not the game 
 that freezes, its the console.
  
  9/10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  When Rockstar and Mad Doc software teamed up to bring Bully: Scholarship Edition to the 360, they 
 handed us a good last-generation port with a complimentary bucket of bugs that was completely unbearable 
 and inexcusable. Sound glitches, camera issues, and freezes were all common-place in the game, 
 and why a game like this was even allowed on store shelves completely boggles the mind.
  
  At least Rockstar admitted the mistake and quickly released a patch that took care of most of the 
 issues, but that isn't to say that they took care of everything. Some of the cutscenes are still 
 very jumpy, and the background sound-effects often skip like a scratched record. Not to mention 
 that watching the characters lips move when they speak is like watching bad anime'and that's if 
 their lips even move at all. But the most annoying of the remaining glitches is the camera, as 
 it just takes off on its own and completely blocks the view. 
  
  What blows me away, and I can't believe I'm saying this, is how good the game plays despite all 
 of the issues. A lesser game would have been kicked to the curb before I was even half-way through, 
 but this one manages to suck you into its little world before you have a chance to give its problems 
 a second thought.
  
  Bully's finer qualities: the storyline, attitude, humor, and ruckus gameplay all save the game 
 from going right down the toilet like a lit firecracker. While running around the schoolyard playing 
 as Jimmy Hopkins feels juvenile at first, the humor soon turns the game sophomoric. Helping alcoholic 
 teachers and taking nude pictures of the cheerleading squad might not be everybody's thing, but 
 Rockstar does a great job of showing you how stereotypical and ridiculous it all is. This is to 
 say that it doesn't just have you shoving nerds into lockers; it actually gives you a good reason 
 to shove nerds into lockers. 
  
  Overall this is good game that shouldn't be missed, especially if you weren't able to play the 
 original on the PS2. It certainly has issues, but they're easily overlooked given the great gameplay 
 and lowered price point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Bully is a rare beast. No matter how much you want to like it, ( and believe me there is a lot 
 to like ) you can't help but spot the flaws, of which there are too many, and this severly detracts 
 from the experience. I can't praise two things enough, the story and the sound. Both really stand 
 out from the crowd in terms of originality and enjoyablility and it is a real pleasure following 
 the escapades of Jimmy. The game does genuinly make you want to play on through the story, and 
 the unlockable areas also keep you playing.
  There is a great cast of characters with very high quality voice acting and on the whole, the gameplay 
 is varied, fun and exciting with a classic soundtrack.
  So, why only 8.0?
  Because no matter how hard i try, i can't keep locking on to the wrong target.
  The targeting 
 system is outdated and very poorly devised and a real pain in the butt.
  The graphics are basically unacceptable for XBOX360. The enviroments and characters textures are 
 as jaggedy as many PS2 games, and it completely detracts from the experience, which is a shame, 
 because Rockstar really have crafted an enjoyable tale here.
  Personally, i'd rent it and breeze through it on a weekend. There's not much to come back too, 
 and you can always play GTA, so why would you want to play this?
  
  +
  
  Great story
  Enjoyable characters
  Fantastic soundtrack
  Varied fun gameplay
  
  -
  
  Nothing new 
 afer GTA for Rockstar
  Horrendous targeting system
  Outdated graphics with too many graphical glitches to count.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlasmaBeam44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  Bully is one of the most entertaining games ever made. Why this is is fairly apparent. It's a Rockstar 
 game that plays like GTA and who better than to rip off GTA than Rockstar themselves? But that's 
 not what Bully is all about. Sure, it's another open world game and that's been done a million 
 times before but that's beside the point. Bully offers an experiance that many other games strive 
 for but fail to accomplish. It offers an engaging story that will keep you playing just to see 
 what will happen next and who in the wonderful cast of characters you'll be able to trade punches 
 with. It also offers up the tried and true gameplay that has made Rockstar one of the most beloved 
 and recognizable game developers out there.
  
  You play as a 15 year old boy named Jimmy Hopkins. He's been expelled from multiple schools and 
 his mother has been remarried more than five times. It's apparent Jimmy has had a rough life and 
 he copes with it by beating people up and acting like a real delinquent. His mother has gotten 
 married yet again and she and her new husband dump Jimmy off at a boarding school know has Bullworth 
 Academy forgetting he even exists in the process.
  
  Bully is a misleading name. You don't play as a bully (although you can if you so choose) but rather 
 you go out of your way to stop all the bullying at Bullworth. Within the first few minutes of the 
 game you see what kind of a school Bullworth really is and Jimmy wants to clean it up. Along the 
 way you'll meet an amazing cast of characters that feel real and alive within the game. You'll 
 meet Algernon, the nerd who frequently wets himself; Gary, the boy you come to trust but soon realize 
 is a maniac only out for himself; and many others who all of which are perfectly voiced by a talented 
 cast of actors.
  
  Your in an open world were you can do pretty much anything you feel like doing. Want to beat up 
 a teacher? Well go right ahead. How about skipping class? You have the choice to do so. But keep 
 in mind that doing such things does come at a price. School prefects will chase you down and if 
 you don't get away or find a place to hide then there will be trouble. The first couple of times 
 your caught you'll just get a slap on the hand, but if you continue to misbehave then it's off 
 to detention with you.
  
  During your term at Bullworth you can attend classes. Scholarship Edition adds new classes that 
 were not found in the original game. Those are Math, Geography, Biology, and Music class. All of 
 the original classes from the initial release also make a return in the form of Art, Gym, Shop, 
 English, Chemistry, and Photography. Classes play out like minigames and are generally fun. In 
 Chemistry you'll be doing button presses as they scroll across the screen to mix chemicals akin 
 to San Andreas's dancing minigames, English class will have you making word out of jumbled letters, 
 and so on. You'll want to attend classes not only because they are fun, but because they reward 
 you with new moves, and skills that are essential to game progression.
  
  There are also eight new missions added to Scholarship Edition. None of them are terribly exciting 
 but if you've played the game on the PS2 then they'll stick out as something new. Most of them 
 take place during Christmas time and as such have a Christmas theme to them. You'll help a bum 
 who thinks honest to God thinks he Santa teach some punk kids a lesson and you'll also help him 
 take out the rival Santa so kids will come to him for their Christmas photos.
  
  Bully takes place over 5 distinct chapters. Each has it's own feel and theme. In chapter one you'll 
 work your way up to the leader of the bullies and take him out making all of the bullies respect 
 you. The same happens in chapter two through four with you taking out the leaders of each clique. 
 The story in the game is a bit predictable but not in a particularly bad way. It's all satisfying 
 and extremely exciting.
  
  Bully has gotten a bit of an upgrade graphically since it's outing on the PS2. The lighting has 
 been improved and doesn't make the game look so dark. Character models have also been somewhat 
 improved. But even with the improvements Bully still looks like a last gen game. It also suffers 
 from frequent crashes and a lot of framerate issues. So take this into consideration if you plan 
 on buying the 360 version. A patch has been released and with it installed I only encountered a 
 game crash once and it was halfway through the game.
  
  All in all Bully is an amazing experience that you shouldn't miss. It was a classic in 2006 and 
 it's still a classic now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maninatrunk
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  
  This game does look a LITTLE bit cleaner, graphics wise now. They added new classes to attend. 
 Which definitely helped the game feel a little more difficult. I flew through the ps2 version it 
 didn't seem to be hard at all. I noticed a few new missions added which is nice, I mean I would 
 be mad if they didn't add any content of that sort. Of course with this edition out for the 360, 
 comes acheivements. Which is also nice. 
  
  THE BAD
  
  Well I know every other reviewer has probably said this but there are mad glitches. and The downloadable 
 patch probably didn't fix a single thing. The thing about all the new content, It just wasn't enough 
 additions for me to want to play even half way through the game! I mean come on you added new classes 
 that are actually difficult, so you'll find yourself having beaten all of the classes except the 
 new ones, because they are pretty rediculous. Geography, is the hardest, I mean if I really wanted 
 to take classes again, like actual classes that require you to learn and stuff I might as well 
 go to back to school.
  
  Considering the capibilities of the Xbox360, You would think that graphics would be very polished, 
 but they are not. In fact sometimes shading effects and daytime/nighttime; facotors in to be absolute 
 horrible. I found myself during the "Day" in certain areas with extremely dark toned character 
 models that looked really odd. Usually when you have art work and graphics models of this sort, 
 you expect colorful bright images, but not here. During the night time you might as well go find 
 a bed and sleep by around 10 because 75% of the city is un-navigatable because it's just pitch 
 black, I mean give me a break, even in lit up area's you end up running into stuff.
  
  This game was OBVIOUSLY thrown together, all the new missions suck, and never have anything to 
 dow ith the main story-line. Pretty much every unlockable is pointless because of the fact that 
 by the time you collect everything or win all the races your all ready about done with the game, 
 and when you beat the game all those things you unlock are just there, with no more purpose in 
 the game.
  
  OVER-ALL
  
  This game was a waste, it might have even ruined my original experiance on the playstation 2. I 
 would suggest that you might as well just take the pass card on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceofspades187
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  this game was really good i didnt play it for ps2 on the next gen it was great. i know there was 
 some bugs and glitchs but it didnt really messed up the gameplay at all. if you havent played this 
 game on any system i would def say rent. it this game is a lil different from what we are used 
 to from rockstar, but you still feel like your play gta with a kid in high school middle school 
 prive school. give this game a try you shouldnt be disappointed. we all need something to play 
 until Left 4 Dead Fallout 3 Gears of War 2 and all the other heavy games comming out this year. 
 so rent it rent it or buy it buy it play it play it play it love it love it love it lolz it keeps 
 on saying The minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 654 characters 
 long wow would this thing work i just one more word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Bully: Scholarship Edition
  
  Review 144
  
  Released: March 4, 2008
  Publisher: Rockstar Games
  Developer: Rockstar Vancouver, Mad Doc 
 Software
  Game Genre: Modern Action Adventure
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Animated Blood, Crude Humor, Language, Sexual 
  Themes, Use of Alcohol and 
 Tobacco, Violence
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (8/10)
  You play as Jimmy, a young man who is sent to boarding school by his mother. It 
 is your job to help Jimmy survive amongst jocks, bullies, and yes, even nerds. The mission system 
 is very similar to other Rockstar titles (i. e. the GTA series) .
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  Jimmy must attend class every day and keep his grades up, aside from completing missions and, as 
 his pal Gary puts it, taking over the school. The classes, unlike a real boarding school, can be 
 very entertainingmostly because there is no studying involved. The depth of the game goes beyond 
 the campus as well, into the city and the beach.
  
  Graphics (7/10)
  The graphics are disappointing for a Rockstar title. There is a noticeable amount of lag and a 
 surprising lack of smoothness.
  
  Durability (8/10)
  
  Overall Score (8.2/10)
  Rounded Score (8/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  A surprisingly entertaining game that is worth the 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cx2t
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  ok, first off... this game rocks, it's basically a gta for vinnie vercetti in his teenage years. 
 That being said, anything related to gta it's good.
  
  You play as a bully in a pretty crazy school. The game is a crossover from the ps2 version, and 
 you can tell by the amazing amount of glitches this game has. From the bus driver that appears 
 and reappears from his seat as a ghost and the funny 360 turn you make everytime you sit this game 
 is buggy as hell, and i mean it.
  
  Nevertheless with this tecnichal issues bully it's still a good and fun game that you can really 
 enjoy.
  
  The over the top characters, the variaty of missions and the good length of the game surely will 
 live up to the dollars you spent buying it.
  
  Back again to the tech stuff, the loading times are ridiculous, everytime you leave a place, you 
 enter a mission, you talk to someone, you save, you go to sleep, whatever the hell you are doing 
 there is a tedious loading time that just kills the feel of the game, every 2 seconds you will 
 be seeing a loading screen and that is pretty much unacceptable for a game like this.
  
  This amazing amount of bugs and technical issues make bully a 6.5, but if you can pass that you 
 might as well be buying a premature grand theft auto sequel, and that is a good thing. Bottomline, 
 better in the ps2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Bully scholarship editon is basically an add on to the original on ps2 but exclusive to the wii 
 and x360 so whats changed since the 2006 PS2 version well read on.
  
  Single player
  
  Bully gives the player tons to do you can go to class go down the street egg cars and so on but 
 the classes are not that enjoyable i often failed some but the problem was there was no replay 
 value apart from certain subjects like maths. The game lets you date girls do jobs for teachers 
 but none of these tasks are that fun most are easy and uninteresting but with that said the odd 
 mission like sneaking into the girls dorm is a good laugh. You can buy objects at stores like clothes 
 eggs and so on for certain missions but their is a surprising lack of satisfaction using the weapons 
 and even the slingshot loses it appeal.
  
  Extra content
  The extra content is extra classes missions etc oh and a HD bullsworth which looks ok but is very 
 clear the graphics are just dipped in HD and then taken straight back out.
  
  Pros
  Loads to do
  interesting characters
  fun interesting missions
  
  cons
  Most tasks are 
 boring 
  Constant loading screens
  some very annoying characters
  
  Verdict
  Bully on the ps2 was fun at the time but rockstar have hardly made enough changes for players to 
 come back but with that said its still a fun experience and is at least worth playing if you like 
 open world games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  In 2006, Rockstar graced the PS2 with another one of their highly controversial titles with Bully. 
 In fear that this game would spark an outbreak of high school bullying (no thanks in part to the 
 alarming rise of school shootings) , anti-violent video game activist Jack Thompson was all over 
 it like vultures on carrion. Fortunately, not stopping its release became yet another failure Thompson 
 could add to his resume.
  
  There's nothing even remotely that bad in Bully. The game revolves around Jimmy Hopkins, a 15 year 
 old kid who seems to make being kicked out every school he's attended a life-time achievement. 
 His mother's fed up, and takes him to a new charter school called Bullworth Academy, and leaves 
 him to the wolves while she takes off on a year long cruise with her new husband. The story unfolds 
 during an entire school year, and will see Jimmy make new friends and new enemies, all the while 
 making as much mischief as he can.
  
  And speaking of mischief, Jimmy can do so in spades. He can give people wedgies, stuff kids in 
 lockers and trash cans, drop marbles for people to slip on, pull fire alarms, and much much more. 
 And that's just the kind of every day stuff you can do outside of missions. The missions themselves 
 have you doing all sorts of high school hijinks, and they also progress the story very nicely as 
 well. The tasks that Jimmy takes on really helps to establish character, which is paramount to 
 telling a great story. The theme of the game isn't just about being a bully or causing mischief, 
 and you'll see a side of Jimmy develop over time by actually wanting to help people who need help. 
 
  
  Another parallel that can be drawn to Grand Theft Auto is that the game world is open-ended. Although 
 it's no where near on the same scale as GTA, it does function similarily. You can pretty much go 
 where you please (provided you unlock certain areas during the story) and watch life in Bullworth 
 move on. Unlike GTA, however, you can actually interact with each person you come across. You can 
 give them compliments, insults, or even bully them if you wish. 
  
  Just like GTA, you can't do something bad without grabbing the attention of local authorities. 
 When you're on school grounds, these authorities are known as prefects, where as outside of school 
 grounds, you can be grabbed police officers, or even by pursuing adults whom you've cheesed off. 
 One such way to get into trouble is to yank someone of their bike and ride off with it. Since Jimmy's 
 15 and has no license, it's only fitting that there's no carjacking in this game. When you get 
 in trouble, however, you can lose authorities by just outrunning them, hiding in trash cans or 
 lockers, or even apologizing to them for minor infractions, if you've unlocked that skill.
  
  And you unlock several skills and upgrades. You do so by attending classes. There are all sorts 
 of classes, such as gym, chemistry, and photography. Scholarship Edition actually has four new 
 classes for you to take. There are two classes each day, one at 9 and one, and there are five levels 
 of each class. Once you finish all the levels of a class, you don't need to attend it anymore, 
 but if there's one you haven't taken yet, you will be truant and they'll be watching for you. Get 
 caught, and you'll immediatley be taken to that class, or brought to the school if you're pinched 
 off campus. 
  
  You can also violate curfew by not being in bed by 11 pm. If you're still out past two in the morning, 
 you'll pass out and if you're outside when this happens, you'll most likely be robbed in your sleep. 
 It's best to be aware of the time at all times and accomplish what you can when you can.
  
  If you like collecting clothes and customizing your character, you'll be heaven with Bully, as 
 the game contains more than 330 clothing items. Most of these garments can be purchased from stores 
 all across Bullworth, but some can only be attained by accomplishing certain missions or errands. 
 There are so many whacky costumes and outfits for Jimmy to wear, you just want to keep putting 
 him in something different each time to see how ridiculous he looks in cutscenes; definately a 
 greatly appreciated feature of the game.
  
  Scholarship Edition also features extra missions and greatly improved graphics. The game looks 
 worlds better on the 360 as opposed to its PS2 counterpart. The textures are more detailed and 
 crisp. And even though the visual improvements are apparent, it still could have used a bit more 
 work, as it's just not in the same league as say, Saint's Row or Grand Theft Auto 4.
  
  One addition in Scholarship Edition is rampant glitches that plague the game throughout. They range 
 from anything as benign as locking on to the wrong person to as malignant as locking up your entire 
 system. There's even glitches that cause major delays in achievements unlocking, sometimes not 
 even unlocking until you start up the game again. Your enjoyment of this version of the game can 
 be entirely dependant on how forgiving your personality is when it comes to glitches. Clearly, 
 this game could have spent a month or two more in the play testing department.
  
  A stand out feature of Bully would have to be the game's audio presentation. Boasting a voice acting 
 cast with wonderful performances and a very memorable soundtrack, Bully is a treat to the ears. 
 Sound effects wise, nothing really is worth writing home to, but considering the most you'll do 
 that warrants impressive sound effects is a pop from a firecracker, it's really not that important.
 
  
  Bully is a game that should be played by everyone who enjoys action games. The story is excellent 
 with great voice acting. It's clever and the writing is hilarious. The gameplay - although not 
 as smooth as the PS2's version thanks to translation - is deep and rewarding with tons of things 
 to do. It's a very solid, well-rounded game with just the minor annoyance of frequent glitches 
 dampening your experience. If you can only try one version of the game, it's recommended you play 
 you the PS2 version even though it's missing the extra content. If your PS2 happens to be in storage, 
 though, you really can't go wrong by playing the 360 version either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition is basically Grand Theft Auto: Bullworth Academy. It's a solid game 
 but you do the same sort of things you can do in Grand Theft Auto but instead of shooting and stealing 
 cars you can bully and steal bikes. 
  
  You play as Jimmy Hopkins and slowly but surely you will take over the school. The game is roughly 
 16 hours so you'll get your money worth but its pretty short for a sandbox type game. Theres some 
 sidemissions to do but not enough to keep you going back. 
  
  The graphics are not stunning at all. They look a bit better than the original PS2 version and 
 the graphical experience hurts the experience. Also, the game suffers from many technical issues. 
 Everytime I take out a camera theres massive lag. Theres glitches everywhere on the screen and 
 some random AI Characters just reappear and appear in different places.
  
  The achievements in the game were pretty fun to do. They give you a lot of replay value especially 
 if you want to go for the 100% Completion Achievement. For achievement fans out there the game 
 will take 26 hours (give or take an hour or two) to get all the achievements.
  
  Overall, Bully would make for a very fun and thrilling PS2 experience (which it did) but the game 
 just doesn't hold its own against amazing sandbox games like Grand Theft Auto IV and Saints Row. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdemoboy52
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  
  Ahh, school. Everyone remembers the times when you ran around trying to get to math class while 
 being chased by bigger kids with minds that are more full of 
  ego rather than smarts. Okay, well maybe that was just me but, nonetheless, we know what school 
 is. Some of us are done with it others, such as myself, are
  nearing the end. But we all know the basic principles. Rockstar takes all those principles and, 
 as they usually do, expands them and makes them full of
  crude, yet humorous, moments and puts them into Bully.
  
  Bully was originally released for 
 the PS2 in October 2006 and was ported over to the Xbox 360 in March of 2008. I haven't played 
 the original Bully but from
  what I've seen of it, Scholarship Edition is pretty much the same thing. There are a few new classes 
 in Scholarship Edition, but that's about it. Now let's
  get to the game. You take on the role of Jimmy Hopkins, a failing student who has been expelled 
 from every other school and is being dropped off by his mom
  and his "new" step-dad right before they go off on a honeymoon. Jimmy goes into the school and 
 befriends a sociopath named Gary who quickly betrays him and
  Jimmy, along with his "side-kick" Petie, is left to take control of all the different cliques and 
 try to take down Gary. The game slowly progresses to allow
  you to go through more and more of Bullsworth, the city that the school is set in. Along with the 
 missions there are side missions you can do such as mowing
  lawns and doing paper routes. There are also bike races and go kart races that you can do for fun. 
 You can also "woo" girls, or guys if you want that
  achievement. Overall the game is fun because of it's unique story and gameplay. The graphics are 
 good for a 360 game but definitely not great. The controls
  are good but can be glitchy at times when aiming the slingshot. Also, some of the classes you can 
 attend in the game tend to be glitchy and the characters
  seem to say the same thing over and over again. The game is worth a rent but I wouldn't buy it 
 unless you really like it or are into this kind of game.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed this game on the PS2 half as much as me, you're going to love it on the 360. There's 
 tons of new content including 8 new missions, 4 new classes, new characters, two-player classes/mini 
 games, new unlockables, new rewards and achievements. In total you get 82 missions, 45 lessons, 
 loads of mini games and collectibles. 40+ hours of gameplay easy. 
  
  Its an open world sandbox game with deeper combat options than most, full of options to dispatch 
 your enemies, including tackles, headbutts, and a few wresting grapples. The world is pretty massive, 
 and will take some time to fully explore. Maybe its just me, but the environments seem to be expanded 
 pretty majorly from the PS2 version. There are a few vehicles you can use to explore the campus 
 and the surrounding town including a skateboard, bicycles, go-carts, and scooters. 
  
  The graphics have been revamped significantly. An all new lighting/shadow system has been added, 
 along with high resolution textures. It still doesn't compare to most Xbox 360 games, but thats 
 not the point, and that's probably a big part of its price. 
  
  This game has more general character and spirit than almost any other game I've played. NPC's are 
 all pretty believable characters in their universe. Playing this really takes you back. Its like 
 being in high school all over again, but if you want to shove someone into a locker you can, you 
 want to pinch your teachers behind as she walks past? go for it! you wanna watch the hall monitor 
 (prefect) fall in your scattered marbles, only to be shot down by your bottle rockets when he chases 
 after you?? no problem! There is great variety of people to interact with, each group with their 
 own members and unique personalities: jocks, nerds, preppies, bullies, greasers, teachers, townies, 
 carnies. 
  
  Its the Grand Theft Auto of the schoolyard, complete with no killing, and the lack of anything 
 too offensive. During its development, this was quickly becoming one of the most controversial 
 games in years. Upon its release, all the soccer moms and political wives with nothing better to 
 do than scapegoat video games were slapped in the face by a harmless romp down memory lane, with 
 a few complimentary wedgies. 
  
  Add in a surprisingly good story full of twists that goes through the whole school year and a cast 
 rivaled by very few games, and you have yourself the answer to your open-world thirst. Next to 
 GTA IV and Just Cause, this is your best bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philiptroaca
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  I love this game so much because because you can relate to it and you can do things that you can 
 never do at your school. the missions you do are so fun Eg you have to start a fight under the 
 school at night to fight for your girlfriend and do so many cool things. it just no only in the 
 school you can also go out side an around the town and go to shops, get a hair cut, got to the 
 fair or help some people and get pocket money by doing the papers, get some food some someone. 
 If you pass a mission with the bike races you get a light house as your house,
  you can go to class and get better at talking making friends or do some science classes and be 
 able to make so stink booms, lighters, fire crackers and more.
  or do some art class to get you flowers and chocolates to make out with some chicks
  the games 
 AWSOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blastalot5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I would argue that even the hardest core gamer needs to take break from the blood lust once in 
 a blue moon. After washing my latest slaughter out of my boxers I threw Bully in the 360 and gave 
 it a go.
  
  The environment, characters, & missions in Bully all blend together to bring a light hearted good 
 time with lots of random fun to be had. Side missions like classes and Paper Route are interesting 
 and just challenging enough. And kicking the crap out of jerks is a heck of a good time.
  
  Two complaints though. One is the camera control... it's not that smooth especially in tight spaces 
 like stairwells. The other is how your movement through the game is a little restricted by the 
 clock. Niether of these are a big deal though.
  
  Overall I'm really glad I went out and gave Bully a go. I like it so much I'm skipping the latest 
 GTA at least for now. Rockstar scores again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  When all was said and done after my first play through I thought Bully was a decent game.
  
  There wasn't alot of stuff in it I hadn't seen before but I must admit that the game play itself 
 was addictive. I really felt compelled to play through it entirely.
  
  The graphics were ok though they definitely felt a bit last-gen compared to other titles out there...
 
  
  The game would also occasionally freeze but wasn't a big deal unless you were in the middle of 
 a particularly annoying mission.
  
  The sound was good though nothing to scream about.
  
  Once thing worth mentioning is that the Achievements were among the easiest I've come across. 
 You'll probably end up with 800 ish points if not more when you first finish it and it's not too 
 hard to go back and get all 1000.
  
  Overall I'd say if you were thinking about this game, just go ahead and get it. You won't be disappointed 
 especially if you pick up a nice clean used disk at a reduced price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  welcome to my review on bully scolarship edition. theis game is my faviroute such a fun game to 
 play its like grand theft auto nearly but as a kid. i have no bad stuff to say about this game. 
 this game is slightly diffrent to the first bully game it has better graphics better gameplay and 
 better rewards and achevemants loads of stuff to do out side of missions like clothshops, bike 
 shops, vending machines and beating people up. 
  THE STORY. the story is about 15 year old jimmy hopkins who goes to bullworth academy because his 
 mum (who has married 7 men) is going on a honey moon with her 8th husband when jimmy makes it there 
 every one hates him apart from the nerds and at the end of the game everyone likes you. CLASSES 
 biolagy, maths, english, geography, chemistry, gym, art and phototography. so as you can see bully 
 scolarship edition is one of the best games out in the games market. thanks for reading my review 
 on bully scolarship edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  One thing is for certain - applying the sandbox environment Rockstar is famous for to a boarding 
 school concept filled with school bullies, jocks, nerds, cheerleaders, greasers and townies is 
 a great idea and for the most part, it works wonderfully. There is alot to see and do on the campus 
 of Bullworth and the surrounding towns, and the game will keep you entertained and busy for the 
 25-30 hours it will take you to reach the end.
  
  You play through the game as Jimmy Hopkins, a smart-mouthed but enlightened 15 year old who has 
 been expelled from a number of schools and is unceremoniously dumped on the Bullworth campus by 
 his mother and her 8th husband as they head off for their honeymoon. It's up to you from that point 
 forward to make the best of the situation, befriend your classmates or defend yourself from them, 
 attend or cut classes and ultimately rise to the top of the school food chain.
  
  To make your mark on the school your main objective wil be to complete missions spread out over 
 the game world. If you've played a number of sandbox games in the past, many of these will be familiar 
 to you - fetch quests, timed missions, pranks, undermining rivals, and a whole lot of fighting. 
 None of these missions are particularly difficult and I had no problem getting through the majority 
 of them on the first attempt. For this reason, Bully is a more relaxing game than others in the 
 genre. You won't find yourself getting terribly stressed out.
  
  In addition to the core missions there are many, many other things to do in the game to keep you 
 occupied - bike races, go kart races, carnival games, paper routes, cutting grass, egging cars, 
 giving wedgies, playing a variety of video games, boxing, kissing girls (or boys if you prefer) ... 
 and alot of these have achievements attached to them. 
  
  Key to making your way through school is actually attending classes - chemistry, english, math, 
 music, shop, biology, and geography. All of the classes are fun and fairly easy. It may take you 
 a few tries to get through some of them (math in particular) and the final biology class seems 
 to be nearly impossible to pull off in the time they give you. When you complete 5 classes of each 
 discipline you'll be rewarded with some funky clothing or a perk within the game. For instance, 
 shop classes give you access to better and better bikes, and geography classes will reveal locations 
 for secret items on your map.
  
  What really adds to the overall experience is Rockstar's well known approach to humor - the game 
 is very funny and will have you chuckling at what is said and done in cut scenes, as well as in 
 the game world itself. In addition, you will appreciate the well done combat mechanics - Jimmy 
 can brawl and you will be asked to defend yourself many times throughout the game.
  
  Unfortunately we also need to focus on what Bully does not do well... the glitchy nature of the 
 game is an aspect that has gotten alot of attention since it's release. The duty of porting the 
 game from the PS2 to the 360 was handled by Mad Doc Software and the port job is a bit of a mess 
 (even after the March update) . It's obvious that the focus was just getting it to run on the 360, 
 not in making it run better.
  
  It's tough to tell you what areas the glitches occur in because they can hit at any time and effect 
 just about anything in the game world. That said, I did not fail a single core mission due to a 
 glitch - in fact the game did not freeze on me at all. Most of the glitches are cosmetic (NPC skitzouts 
 being most common) but some effect the camera and controls. At one point the camera was stuck in 
 one position above Jimmy's head and I couldn't control him, but then some random NPC walked up 
 and knocked me off my bike and the camera reverted to normal again.
  
  The worst glitch however, happened to me at the end of the game - achievements just stopped coming. 
 I did not get the achievement for completing the game and the Endless Summer bonus missions never 
 unlocked. I didn't get the achievement for 250 clothing items, even though I had 307. I reloaded 
 an earlier save and re-bought the clothing items, but got the same result. I'm not a hardcore achievement 
 junkie, but I lost out on 160 points in the end. Upon finishing the game I felt a bit like I had 
 gotten punched in the face and it was a disappointing way to finish a game I had enjoyed.
  
  Playing games isn't all about achievements however, it's about the experiences you have with 
 the game itself. In this regard Bully succeeds as an enjoyable and funny game that won't stress 
 you out. It's too bad the port could not have been handled better and some of these issues couldn't 
 have been ironed out before it hit shelves. I would have scored Bully an 8.5, but I gave it a half 
 point deduction for the glitches and another half point for the punch to the snout it gave me at 
 the end, but don't let that stop you from buying the game if you're interested in it, you will 
 be entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Before I go into the review, I would like to mention that this review was written after the update 
 that fixed many of this game's problems including the random framerate drops.
  
  We all know that kid. The one who thinks he's so tough and is a jerk to everyone. Well, now he's 
 you. You play as Jimmy Hopkins, the newest future prisoner attending Bullworth Academy. Jimmy has 
 been expelled from school after school and now Bullworth is the only school that will take him. 
 Of course Jimmy does what every other kid in his situation would do, try and take over the school. 
 As Jimmy, you have to attend classes, avoid preps and cops, work jobs, and try and unite the social 
 groups, which are your stereotypical jocks, nerds, greasers, and preps, all in an attempt to be 
 number 1 and leave your mark.
  
  As you can see, the story is kind've basic but throughout the game, you will build stories within 
 each social group and it provides some interesting stories of vandalism, betrayal, and panty raids? 
 The story should keep you entertained as it will last you a good 10-15 hours if you just go straight 
 through it. It's nothing deep but it's humourous, engaging, and satisfying all the way to the end.
 
  
  The graphics aren't going to blow you away with this one but they aren't a complete eyesore as 
 well. The textures are done fairly well and the character models are one of the best out there 
 as characters are made with great detail.
  
  The sound is done almost to perfection. Great voice acting only add to the great dialogue in this 
 game. The nerds sound like a stereotypical nerd, the jocks sound like hard asses, the gym teacher 
 sounds like a complete jackass. Objects make the noises you would assume they would make when you 
 collide or make contact with them. This was definently one of the major achievements they made 
 with this game.
  
  The gameplay is alot of fun. You can run around, ride a skateboard, bikes, mopeds or steal any 
 of those. You can give kids wedgies, throw stink bombs at them, trip them with marbles, the list 
 just goes on. You can always find creativity in the gameplay especially in the variety of missions 
 there are. There's everything from go to the teacher's lounge and light a bag of dog do-do in front 
 of the door to fighting huge groups of people and the game never seems to give you too many of 
 the same missions over and over which is usually the problem with free roaming/sandbox games. There's 
 obviously fighting too which they keep very basic and let you learn as you progress through the 
 game. Instead of giving you a bunch of combos you have to learn right away, you learn them over 
 the course of the game through gym class and helping an old bum find some transistor radios. But 
 to keep the combat very basic to hit, grab, and punch, all the way to combos really helps make 
 the gameplay strong and keeping it from becoming boring.
  
  What amazes me the most in this game is the variety in this game. There's just so much that you 
 can do that you can do in this game that it will keep you playing and finding new things to do. 
 There's things for every type of gamer in this. You can attend classes, play through the missions, 
 beat kids up for no reason, search for rubber bands, cards, radios, play arcade games, go to the 
 carnival and race or play the games there, and the list keeps going. While alot of this was in 
 the original Bully for the Playstation 2, they've added enough that it can feel like a completely 
 new game and even those who played through Bully can find something new here.
  
  One of the sad things is tough, it is rather short for a free roam game. The story will only last 
 10-15 hours and you can get everything done in around 30-40 hours. But if you are trying to find 
 a way to burn that amount of time or you enjoy this type of game, then this game is definently 
 for you. Also, for as cheap as you can get it now, I recommend this game as a buy. You can just 
 find so many things to do that this game is easy for any gamer, casual to hardcore, to engage in. 
 There are its faults but there was an update that fixed almost all of them and there's only the 
 occasional hitch now so there's not too much to complain about. So I can easily, and happily say 
 that this game deserves an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I like sandbox type games, and this was one of those types. Was this game worth getting? Yes!
 
  Story -- Trouble-maker Jimmy Hopkins gets dumped at Bullworth Academy, a boarding school in New 
 England. Basically, he changes the social hierarchy in the school. Jimmy either bullies people 
 or helps people throughout the game. Other than that, there isn't much of an actual story so much 
 as Jimmy just going through varies missions to help or hinder a variety of people.
  Graphics -- the worst part about this game is the presentation. The graphics could easily pass as 
 a PS2 game, but they aren't terrible. The models do look mildly deformed, but the environments 
 look good enough. However this game is full of glitches. The frame rate can slow down tremendously 
 at times, which can be vary annoying and frustrating. This game doesn't have awful graphics, but 
 they aren't something you'd want to represent Xbox 360 graphics with.
  Gameplay -- the gameplay is a lot of fun. There's an open-world environment to freely roam around 
 in. You can take a stroll through the town of Bullworth, beating up adults or jocks. You do have 
 a trouble meter, and if it goes up cops and prefects will try and bust you for your actions. The 
 button layout is great, but the camera sometimes gets in the way, even with the ability to turn 
 the camera around behind you, then you won't see who's in front of you. Missions are fun to do, 
 though they do get repetitive. You can say taunts to people or just be friendly with them. I don't 
 want to spoil the whole game for you, so those are just a few things to do in this game.
  Story: 7/10 -- It's basic but also adds some humor to it as well.
  Graphics -- 6.8/10 -- they look 
 like a good PS2 game, and the frame rate slows down a lot plus glitches, but the environments do 
 look good.
  Gameplay: 8.8/10 -- lots of fun, lots to do, and it's fun to be mean to people.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you like action games or sandbox-type games, then pick this one up. There's 
 lots to do, and it's so fun to be a bully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this strange new game set in a high school i thought it was absurd. I go 
 to school and I hate it so why would I want to come home and play a game about a school, complete 
 with actual lessons? Now despite my pessimism, Rockstar games has turned a weird idea into an entirely 
 fun game and to play it for 10 minutes, you'd know which company made it.
  
  Now for those who still aren't too keen on the concept of Bully just think of it like this. What 
 do people hate about school? I can think of a few reasons, lessons, homework, and confinement. 
 In Bully there is no homework. You'd have to be mad to think that people would like to play a game 
 in which you had to do that. In real life, students write essays for English, complete whole sheets 
 of algebra and long multiplication for maths and providing you live in the UK you have to do total 
 cack in art. You don't even get to paint pictures on an easel until your in 10th grade. Yes, you 
 read that correctly but let's not go into that. In Bully, the lessons only last for 2 minutes. 
 English is like the TV show countdown where you have a certain time to rearange letters to spell 
 words. Not to taxing and kind of fun. Art is sort of like pack man but I can't really explain it.. 
 Biology is 100% about the dissection of animals. No written work. The lessons are basically just 
 mini games, refined and shortened versions of real life school lessons without the boring bits. 
 Granted Maths aint exactly fun but if you really hate it that much, skip it! You can mitch off 
 lessons and drop out of school and explore the town. If the cops catch you and drop you back off 
 at school then you can just go back out to town again. No confinement. Now let's move on.
  
  Now as you may know when your not in lessons you can take on missions or piss about. Since 
 the game's story is often about rising through the ranks of the school cliques, aka beating up 
 the higher up clique, getting them to work for you, beating up the next and so on, you'll be doing 
 loads of fighting. A decent variety of moves, weapons and bullying techniques make fighting fun 
 and it is occasionally pretty dramatic. Fighting the other students is far from the only thing 
 you are tasked with doing in Bully. It's one of those games that is hard to summarize becasue the 
 sheer variety of things you'll be getting up to is huge. Seriously, I have never played a game 
 before in my life that gave me so many different things to do. You'll be racing on bicycles, dating 
 girls, seriously messing up the jocks football training and invading the nerds' observatory stronghold, 
 wich is defended by a huge spud machine gun. Unlike on GTA, you'll never feel like what your doing 
 at one moment is too similar to what you have been doing before. All the story missions are extremely 
 enjoyable and are rounded off nicely with an exciting climax and a breathtaking finale.
  
  Bully was originally a PS2 game and it shows, but the dated graphics are compensated for by very 
 smooth edges, uncharictaristic of anything but the PC. All of the bugs that were mentioned in gamespot 
 review are basically gone. Sometimes your skateboard will move a little too fast and you will occasionally 
 get stuck in the things but it really is nothing to worry about as long as you have downloaded 
 the patch off Xbox Live
  
  Unfortunately, when the game is over and you have nothing left to do but easy achievements and 
 trivial side missions, the fun will wear off. The game is pretty easy and it took me just a handful 
 of afternoons to beat, but it's all worth doing again . Even if you just play it a couple of times 
 and then add it to your Xbox 360 library, Bully Scholarship Edition will give you a good run for 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is sort of like GTA but in school. This game was made by Rockstar so basically you 
 go around the school doing missions for other students or teachers and eventually people around 
 the city. You have to go to two classes per day which are all very fun. On the other hand you can 
 skip school and be a total "Bully". There are loads of side missions to earn money and there is 
 lots of stuff to buy such as clothes, weapons such as eggs, firecrackers and lots more. You can 
 rise a skateboard or a bike and free-roam around the fairly small city.
  
  Graphics: For 360 standards these are pretty bad, the frame rate isn't very good but for a couple 
 seconds sometimes it goes good. The game freezes once in a while but if you don't mind those kind 
 of things then this game is still worth buying.
  
  Sound: No complaints
  
  Overall this game is worth buying defiantly if you like RPG games and if you haven't played Bully 
 for the PS2. I played Bully for PS2 and i still bought this and it was worth it for the $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the GTA games I had an interest in Bully last year but I ended up purchasing a 360 
 last September and I just didn't have the desire to invest in anymore PS2 games. So when Rockstar 
 ported Bully over to the 360 that was ideal for me and I picked up a copy several weeks ago. Overall 
 I have to say that it was money well spent.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8 ) - As you probably already know your protagonist is Jimmy, who has basically been 
 dumped off at a rather sinister private school by his Mom and new Step-Dad. In many ways this is 
 similar to the GTA games. You have missions that are related to the main story and need to be finished 
 before the story moves along. You'll also have plenty of errands which are not necessary but are 
 generally quite easy and will give you some extra cash. In addition to these are the classes to 
 attend. These are also not necessary but most of them are enjoyable minigames and some will give 
 you handy bonuses upon completion. You also have the ability to simply leave the school and explore 
 the town of Bullworth. While you can't do some of the over-the-top actions from the GTA games you 
 can still confiscate bikes and get into fights with other teenagers. There just won't be any deaths 
 or dismemberments! Overall all of the missions and errands tend to be on the easy side but are 
 still fun due to the fact that they are usually set in humorous situations.
  
  GRAPHICS (7) - Graphics are not bad but basically look like a PS2 game with higher resolutions. 
 This is certainly not a game you'd use to show off the capabilities of the 360 but they more than 
 get the job done. Upon release it was reported that there were some serious glitches with the game 
 but when I first installed it Xbox Live automatically downloaded a patch and I did not experience 
 any problems.
  
  SOUND (9) - Both music and voices are excellent. Hard to describe the different background themes. 
 They almost feel like something from the sixties or seventies, but were very catchy and seem to 
 fit the game perfectly. One of the game's biggest strengths is the voice work. All of the different 
 characters sounded very believable, which was important since the missions always start with a 
 cutscene that involve a fair amount of talking. One of the better jobs of voicework I've heard 
 in a game.
  
  VALUE (9) - Just as in the GTA and other "sandbox" games, you can spend an almost infinite amount 
 of time here even if you complete the main story. There are plenty of extra-curricular activities 
 to keep you busy for a long time. Of course gathering achievements can take a decent amount of 
 time but there was also an amazing amount of different outfits to either find or buy for Jimmy, 
 many of which will give you a good laugh at Jimmy's expense! Anyone should be able to get this 
 game for under $30 at this point and you will get more than your money's worth.
  
  Overall (8.5) - As I stated before, if you enjoy the GTA games then you'll most likely enjoy Bully. 
 Though it certainly doesn't have some of the mature themes from those games there will still be 
 plenty of fun (and funny) things to do that will keep you entertained and laughing. Recommended 
 for young teenagers and up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  When Rockstar came out with Grand Theft Auto it really created it's own genre. The open-world, 
 sandbox style of gameplay proved to be quite popular with people and the series has gone on to 
 garner great critical acclaim and sell TONS of games. I have always found the GTA games to be a 
 bit overrated, but they are all still worth owning & playing. After the great success of the series, 
 many companies started to copy Rockstar and put out open-world games themselves. Well I guess it's 
 Rockstar's turn to rip themselves off as Bully is an obvious 'teenage' version of Grand Theft Auto.
 
  
  If you have played any of the GTA games from the previous generation, you will know what to expect 
 with Bully. The storyline is very different, of course. But the gameplay is almost exactly the 
 same. You play the game as a 15 yr. old kid who gets dumped off at a strict boarding school by 
 your parents because you have had some difficulty behaving in the past. Just like in GTA's city, 
 the school in Bully has certain factions. Instead of Italians, Latinos, Russians, Blacks you have 
 Bullies, Nerds, Jocks, Greasers, & Townies. And just like in GTA, you go through the game's story 
 mode working for all these factions as different times all while looking out for your own agenda. 
 Each faction will have different missions for you to do and it usually involves messing with one 
 of the other factions. Along the way, you slowly work your way up the ladder and you are basically 
 running the school at one point. Like I mentioned before, this type of game structure should make 
 fans of GTA right at home. The whole time I played through the story mode, I felt like I was playing 
 GTA 3 for 13 yr. olds. There isn't much swearing in the game and you can't kill anyone. There are 
 no hookers, pimps, gangs, you can't drive, etc. It's basically like Rockstar thought they were 
 getting a lot of heat for their GTA series, so they would make a game people under 18 could enjoy 
 (even though everyone knows that people underage play GTA) .
  
  I don't mean to make that sound like a negative because the game is quite fun. In fact, I like 
 the storyline here better than any of the GTA games on the PS2. And the missions have WAY more 
 variety than ANY of the GTA games I have played. That includes the newer Grand Theft Auto 4. The 
 game definitely has a certain charm to it that is hard not to deny. It has many different things 
 you can do while you are not working on the story missions. You can go to a carnival, go shopping, 
 mow lawns for $, participate in bike races, kiss girls, run errands for people that will pay you 
 $, but the biggest non-storyline related gameplay feature in the game are the classes.
  
  Each day you have to attend classes, and you must be in them on time or you are truant. There are 
 several different classes, such as English, Math, Geography, and so on. When you go to one of these 
 classes, you then start a mini-game of sorts. Depending on how you do in the mini-game, you will 
 either pass or fail and have to eventually do it again. You get a bunch of nice little bonuses 
 for completing each class and the mini-games are actually fun. Some of them are irritating (Art 
 class comes to mind) , but I really liked doing most of them even though you don't have to, technically. 
 You can skip every class if you want, but if the 'prefects' (school ground security staff) or cops 
 catch you then you will get busted. To be honest, it would be in your best interest to do the classes 
 anyways, as you get lots of useful items and skills and the most of the games are fun.
  
  You go to class twice a day with a break for lunch in-between. The rest of the time in the day 
 is yours to do whatever you want. Just like in GTA, this is where the open-world gameplay comes 
 in. If you want to advance the story along, you can. If you don't, then you can go do some of the 
 fun activities that the game lets you do. You do have a cerfew (which is 11pm) and if you aren't 
 in bed by 1am, you literally pass out where you stand, which gets you caught and you lose some 
 of your items.
  
  While the game is a fun and mostly positive experience, there are some glaring flaws that can't 
 be ignored. The most obvious is the shocking amount of glitches in this Xbox 360 version. I had 
 the game lock-up on me multiple times. I have my character get stuck in the ground without being 
 able to move, so I had to restart from a save. As I was riding on my skateboard once, my character 
 kept glitching in and out with his face replacing the back of his head and vice versa. Some of 
 the achievements are very glitchy, which is obviously frustrating. These are just some of the instances 
 where a frustrating glitch would take me out of the gameplay experience. This is obviously unacceptable 
 and I know Rockstar released a patch fixing some glitches early on, but they obviously didn't fix 
 them all.
  
  Then you get to the game itself. Some of the controls are annoying, such as having to press my 
 'A' button over and over just to run faster. The handling on the skateboard and bikes can be twitchy. 
 The game shows you a load screen for almost everything you do. The camera is god-awful at times, 
 especially when you are indoors. And while I mentioned that the game is fun due to the different 
 kinds of missions you can do, it still gets a little repetitive. It's not as bad as GTA, but it's 
 there. The stuff you can do on your own time, which was really cool at the beginning of the game 
 start to get a bit old after awhile and you basically get in a routine of a daily grind. You go 
 to class, kill some time, go to another class, do a story mission or two, maybe do some other stuff, 
 go to sleep, rinse and repeat about five thousand times. It does make it frustrating to try to 
 get stuff done when the in-game clock moves WAY too fast, especially since you have to be in bed 
 by a certain time.
  
  Overall, the game is fun to play and any fan of GTA will probably like it. Almost everything you 
 can do in GTA, there is a teenage version of it in this game. Ultimately, that is what Bully will 
 leave with you: a feeling that you just played Grand Theft Auto made for kids. It's fun for adults, 
 but it doesn't do enough to seperate itself from it's 'big brother'.
  
  Once you boot this game up, you will obviously notice this game was not made for this generation 
 of consoles. Of course, if you are even playing this game you will probably already know this was 
 a Playstation 2 title. And it certainly looks the part. You can tell Rockstar worked on the visuals 
 a bit, but they are pretty poor overall. The good part is that you probably know this going into 
 the game, so you shouldn't be expecting anything better. The game has a nice visual style even 
 if the technology has long since passed this game by.
  
  I will commend Rockstar for doing another great job with the voice acting in a game. There are 
 no big names here, but the game is outstanding in this area. There isn't much to say about the 
 music, but it does the job. There are no licensed tracks like there is in the GTA games, but it's 
 not something I really thought about while playing the game.
  
  It's too bad that Rockstar released Bully in this sort of condition. This is a very good game hiding 
 behind crappy visuals and numerous glitches. While I can excuse the dated graphics due to this 
 being a budget game and I knew about it going in, there is no excuse for releasing a game that 
 doesn't work properly. Because of that, the game feels like a quick and dirty port job to get people 
 to shell out some more $. If you have played the PS2 version, don't bother with this Xbox 360 version, 
 as the new missions aren't worth you buying this again. The game is fun and any fan of the Grand 
 Theft Auto series will probably really get into it. I just feel it's more of a rental than a purchase 
 due to the short length of the game and the unfortunate bugs that really hamper your experience 
 with the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition finds it's way onto the Xbox 360. When Bully was released on the ps2 
 I thought is was one of the best games out then and I wasn't wrong. Now Rockstar has come out with 
 a newer version. Although it isn't got much more stuff than the first one doesn't really mean nothing. 
 More clothes and some new missions and a few more classes than before. If you have it for the ps2 
 and have played it already then you isn't going to want to buy this game because of only a few 
 upgrades to the game. But if you haven't played it then you aren't going to waste any more because 
 you'll get your money's worth out of this game. Everybody say's that they have been having a few 
 problems with there game but I ain't had one problem at all. So if your looking for a game to buy 
 or rent so that you'll have a great time playing them this game is the one for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition might seem enticing with its "Scholarship Edition" subtitle, but if 
 you've played the PS2 original, you're really missing out on nothing.
  In the game, you portray Jimmy Hopkins, a rebellious 15-year-old who is forced to attend Bullworth 
 Academy, situated in the small island town of Bullworth. The gameplay is virtually the same as 
 San Andreas, as are the graphics, but there are some minor tweaks to it. You attend classes twice 
 a day, which are fun little mini-games that get harder as you get further into the year. Biology 
 involves dissecting animals, chemistry is a DDR-like rhythm game, Photography is going around the 
 school taking pictures of designated things, and there are others. Geography is a bad one, becuase 
 it's only matching blank countries on a map to their proper name. In between and after classes 
 you can attempt various missions that follow the story's plot. You'll interact with different social 
 factions: The jocks, greasers, nerds, preps, and townies. You'll encounter characters from different 
 factions, teachers, and town residents. They all seem very stereotypical, but it's just part of 
 the game's silliness. In the town out of school grounds, you can visit the Amusement Park, grocery 
 stores, and different sections of town in which different factions reside. The 2nd and 3rd quarters 
 of the game are in winter, which is pleasing at first, but makes in very difficult to control vehicles 
 like your trusty ol' skateboard. After you complete the story, there is actually not much more 
 replay value, only to collect the achievements. Some of the glitches that this game seems to be 
 notorious for include many graphical glitches in cutscenes, and a single instance in which the 
 game crashed. But one time is too many. All of the characters are voiced well, and the game itself 
 is fun. Fun enough for me to recommend this game to any fan of GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  In my review of the first bully I gave it a 8.5 out of 10 because it was a really good game, and 
 was like a kid version of gta. This version, Bully: Scholarship Edition, is not as good as the 
 ps2 game, for two reasons: 1. It constantly has HUGE GLITCHES, I have seen glitches before, but 
 this game beats them all. Secondly I havent seen any changes to the game from the original, except 
 for a couple of new missions.
  If you are a fan of bully and you want to go check this version out go ahead, I recommend you dont, 
 but its your opinion so do whatever you want to. The game does have one thing that is a little 
 fun, its dissecting frogs, which can be a little fun, it lets you get away from constantly playing 
 the missions. This version is on the xbox, so you get achievements to improve your gamerscore. 
 Overall it is okay, but go out and rent it first before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechatac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow, well, I honestly find it hard to remeber the last time I had this much fun with a game and 
 its world.
  
  The graphics are decent, they do feel like an updated PS2 game, and comapred to things like Portal 
 or Kameo, the graphics in Bully are almost awful, but given that I was still drawn into the world, 
 I must've clearly forgiven the graphics at some point...
  
  The sound is a highlight here, the voice acting is both witty and hilarious, and very well done. 
 The music matches the mood of the game and theres really little that will annoy anyone (then again, 
 the preppies chase music annoyed me) . Still, I could probably count the number of games I've played 
 with better voice acting than this on one hand, its very well done.
  
  The gameplay is definatly servicable, it works to be sure and its fairly logical. I had a little 
 difficulty given that I played this game when I had only had my 360 for 4 months (and had never 
 owned an Xbox) , in particular during some of the classes, but gameplay isn't bad. At the very least, 
 it will never make the game unplayable to the end, and given the story and characters, you'll want 
 to.
  
  Now, I didn't get the patch for this game (no LIVE access) , and I did indeed experince several 
 "issues" that make me think that another 2 months in development could've fixed:
  I cannot beat Chemistry 5, not because I'm unfamilar with the 360 controller (I'm not THAT unfamiliar 
 with it, but I'm definatly more familar with the ps2 and gcn controllers) , but because of a glitch.
 
  In one section of New Coventry, I constantly got the same graphics and sound breakups. It was 
 very annoying and I feared the game would freeze every time.
  I had the game freeze one time: during the challenge "Making a Mark", which is towards the end 
 of the game. It didn't freeze the second time I played the mission.
  
  pros: story, character, script, setting, immserion, music, voice acting
  
  cons: the glitches 
 I mentioned above for the curious, too short
  
  Still, even if you avoid this version, you should still play one of the other available versions. 
 Its still a great game with a lot of charm that should not be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the good ones.
  
  This game sets you out just as you would on your first day of high school at the bottom of the 
 social ladder. No one likes you, know one knows you. Then you have to survive. While in the mean 
 time learn everything you need to in order for you to survive.
  
  While in the mean time, sneak into the girls dorm to steal their panties, take pictures of the 
 girls in the shower and etc. Then keep the bullies at bay defend the nerds, give the rich kids 
 the lesson they deserve put the jocks in place.
  
  Then find time for dating 5 girls with out getting caught cheating. Then complete tasks and goals. 
 
  
  This game is a lot of fun and enjoyable addition. To the label, the game resembles GTA , Everything 
 is just right with the way the games makes you feel in the right time.
  
  Glad to skip maths class, hating English and enjoying Art and music.
  
  One of the good things 
 not noted is your dorm room collects the little trophies that you get from completing the tasks 
 and goals of the game.
  Such as the posters and shirts on the wall.
  
  The glitches that the review mentions are there but It didn't happen too often to me.
  
  Go 
 out and buy the game. Then laugh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kipohippo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Bully is a good game, no its AMAZING! Jimmy hopkins, a person who is probably going to jail next 
 year. If you love open world, weapon filled, endless possibileties type games. Then, thwere is 
 mo question about it. YOU NEED THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I have spent hours playing the original 
 on my PS2 so when i got my 360 this was a needed game. even though i tricked my brother into buying 
 it (i convinced him that he should get the sims2 pets expansion pack instead. scince he never listens 
 to me my little brother bought this) . I will name some good features now..............
  
  1. Open world
  2. Great pranks to play
  3. Awsome weapons
  4. Lots of cops to run from } : D
 
  5. Nice shadow effects
  
  Now for the bad..........
  
  
  1. Glitches
  
  Yeah I know BOOOOOO! Glitches! Yeah they are bad. But there is a free patch avalible.
  
  2. 
 Freezing
  
  This is part of the glitches but it's annoying but, as long as you save often you are fine. Now 
 this game has a great story, mildy cheesy yes but good nontheless. If you like beating up innocent 
 kids, shooting rockets at someones grandama and pulling a fire alarm and beating a teacher up with 
 a fire hydrant, BUY THIS F****** GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition is a PS2 port to the 360 with a few added missions and classes. Many 
 reviews of this game I've read point to many bugs, glitches, and crashes. I experienced none of 
 these but I picked the game up after a patch was released that appears to have cleared up the problems.
 
  
  The first thing you need to understand is this game is pure, basic, open-world, Rockstar fare. 
 That means the whole game is "Go do this and Go find that". If that's not your thing, Bully is 
 not for you. If it is then you will enjoy a cute and fun experience as well as an easy 1000 gamerscore 
 points.
  
  Story - Not bad. You're a tough kid trying to make his mark in a new private school. You have to 
 deal with the Faculty, Nerds, Preps, Jocks, and jealous kids from the surrounding town to reach 
 your goal of King of the School.
  
  Graphics - Remember, this is ported from last gen. It doesn't look great but as long as you keep 
 things in perspective, it's not terrible either.
  
  Gameplay - Most of your combat is fisticuffs. You learn special attacks as you progress through 
 the game that are fun to do. Weapons such as the Slingshot (my preferred weapon) , baseball bats, 
 marbles, trashcan lids, and much more non-lethal goodies also present themselves. The aiming is 
 reminiscent of older GTA games. That's not a good thing, but unlike GTA, you are seldom pressed 
 to a point where the auto-aim hurts you. Actually, if anything the combat is probably too easy. 
 Other little missions include completing class work which amounts to finishing a series of puzzle 
 games that increase in difficulty as you move on. You can also cut lawns, race bikes, deliver papers, 
 go to the carnival, and much more. Everything is pretty easy to do and quite a bit of fun!
  
  All in all, if you come across Bully cheap or want an enjoyable rental, you should be very 
 pleased with the game. It's a low-stress romp that allows you to re-live school in a way that you 
 wouldn't have dared during your real school days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The game bully was originally released only for the PS2, but the makers (Rockstar, who make the 
 GTA series) decided to release a new version for the Xbox360 which features and explores new themes 
 and levels. Not much differentiates this edition from the core game, only a few extra minigames 
 and levels have been added in. the game isn't perfect either, it doesn't utilize the Xbox360s true 
 potential, but this is still an enjoyable game, especially for those who don't get up to mischief 
 at school and would like to give it a try.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Bully: scholarship edition is very interesting, it explores many ways of returning 
 to childhood or causing mischief without actually killing anyone, the level of mayhem varies from 
 egging cars to blowing up toilets, which is always fun. What else bully incorporates that other 
 games don't, are performing these minigames which are actually classes, these classes have all 
 the subjects incorporated into them and reward you as you actually get a good mark in it, this 
 edition has also added some new classes, such as bike shop and chemistry. What game about bullies 
 cant let you bully people, not this one, you also have the opportunity to bully people into submission, 
 embarrass them, compliment them, or start a relationship with them, you also can stand up for the 
 victims by beating up other bullies, the story is actually based around this concept, thus dawns 
 the name "bully". The story revolves around you gaining respect from the different varieties of 
 people you encounter in the game, this can get tedious, but the game explores many ways of approaching 
 this factor as well as making each mission interesting and different.
  
  Graphics/sound:
  The graphics, as I said before, aren't perfect, but which freeform game does have perfect graphics? 
 The sound and soundtrack were as good as they were in the previous game which is quite good, all 
 the songs are original and the voice acting is also something to be noticed, especially when there 
 are dozens of extremely interesting characters in the game.
  
  Overall/value:
  This game is not to be bought for full price if you already own the previous edition, it is aimed 
 to be bought by people who haven't yet played this game, so it would be a waste of money if you 
 already own the previous game, for anyone else this game will give you many hours of game time, 
 but should just be bought for fun not for serious hardcore gaming, because it is quite easy. Overall 
 a unique game worthy of anyone's collection, very amusing, very different, very well done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metsfan12386
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  O. K, heres the story, I went to Gamestop the other day and traded in my ps2 and other games then 
 I got about 140 dollars back so this is what I got: My first choice was Lego Indiana Jones (see 
 review) then I picked out Gears of War (because I didn't have it yet because i got my 360 this 
 January) then I choose guitar hero 2 (just the game) then Deadrising (um........ just cause it 
 looked cool) then my eye hit a game called "Bully" I picked it up and said "What the hell? I have 
 the money and ill try it" well lets just say it worked cause i've put in about 75 hours in a week 
 it is alot like GTA and with great missions and the only reason it is .5 off is because you can't 
 set a waypoint to you destination like GTA Bully Scholarship Ed. is a definite buy for rockstar 
 game lovers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  
  PROS: Great story, colorful characters, neat gameplay, open world, something original, Lots of 
 personality, Still great after a few years, Great extras/ New classes, Large appeal, Tons to do 
 
  
  CONS: Frequent Glitches, Freezes the game, Frame rate drops, Not worth buying again if you beat 
 the one on PS2
  
  Rockstar Games, i know what you are thinking of.. Grand Theft Auto Series. Maybe Jack Thompson.. 
 but if you enjoyed the Grand Theft Auto series, you will find out that Bully is very similar to 
 GTA, yet your in the eyes f a 15 year old kid. Instead of Guns, you got Sling Shots, Potato Guns, 
 Stink Bombs, etc.. Instead of stealing cars, you Steal bikes, or Motor Scooters. There is a ton 
 of games that use guns, and are similar to GTA, however none in my mind takes on the role of a 
 kid. In that same environment
  
  In Bully you take on the role as 15 year old baddie, Jimmy Hopkins. Although you are only 15, you 
 have a ton of baggage with you. Your Mom is a complete Slut, who marries and divorces in every 
 moment she gets. You have been thrown out of 7 different schools in the past, and Jimmy is about 
 to enter the worse school imaginable, Bullworth Academy. Your Goal, is to bring peace to the school, 
 and take out one liar and cheater Gary. 
  
  So what makes Bullworth so bad? Well a ton! Bullworth has some of the craziest teachers. He has 
 a Drunk English Teacher, a Hippie Music Teacher, a Corrupt Math teacher, a crazy Principle who 
 wants to "clean your nose". and a perverted Gym teacher. But thats just the teachers. When you 
 think of a school, you know that there are clicks that have followers and leaders. In Bully they 
 take that idea, and exaggerate on each one. The Jocks are complete Idiots, the Nerds are nerdier 
 then ever, and the Preps are stuck up as ever. What you gotta do is bring peace to the school, 
 by gaining the trust and leadership of all the clicks. 
  
  What is neat about Bully that unlike other rockstar games, each character you meet has a name, 
 and personality. You will not find 2 kids that look exactly the same, in fact you can take pictures 
 of each kid, and store them in a year book, and see how each kid looks. Some kids have more personality,
 
  Like Russell the GIGANTIC bully who likes to pick on kids, and Johnny who leads the Greasers. 
 Its nice to see how they take the time in making each student.
  
  Bully is an open world type of game, you can do pretty much anything you want! your map is not 
 limited to the confines of school, but the whole town is available for you to explore. Like most 
 Rockstar games, you have a set of missions that you complete, once they are done, you move on with 
 the next and so one. But you can also, do errands for people. They consist of taking pictures of 
 vandals, or throw water balloons at innocent town folk. You also can do side missions, like mowing 
 lawns, or being a paper boy. Not only that, you can also play hooky from school any time. Although 
 you do get in trouble, school is optional , and you don't need to attend school to beat the main 
 story. So what else can you do instead of school, how about play a bunch of arcade games, or go 
 to the carnival. There is a ton of stuff to do there. You can play a series of mini games, like 
 shoot out, or dunk tanks. You can also ride roller coasters, and other rides. Also.... place bets 
 on midget fights! how cool is that! You think GTA IV had a ton to do.. well i think Bully one ups 
 them in that regard. 
  
  However the main blemish on this great game, is simple.. its extremely glitchy. The PS2 had some 
 as well (at least the one i had.. it would get stuck in certain spots) The Xbox 360 version has 
 weird technical issues, weird animations, freezes, get stuck.. (i had one major one on the final 
 boss) it really hurts the game.. Bully itself is amazing to say the least.. but my only real complaint 
 with the game is that. Fix the bugs would make this a hell lot better.. as well as the frequent 
 frame rate drops.. even though the graphics are not even pushing the limits of the 360 in any ways..
 
  
  So you are in school.. How can you make a game involving going to class fun?? well Rockstar pulled 
 it off. They made very addicting mini games in each class. Like in Chem, you press the corresponding 
 button, as the one on the screen. Or English, where you get a set of letters, and you make as many 
 3 + letter words as possible. Along with the old classes, Bully comes with 4 more classes then 
 the original. Biology is a class where you can dissect frogs, and other animals. Music, is where 
 you play different instruments by getting the beat, with the shoulder buttons. You also have shop 
 class, where you repair bikes, and Photo Class, where you take pictures of different things. You 
 have 5 levels of each class, and by beating each level, you get a prize of some sort. Like In art, 
 the better you are, the more health you get by kissing girls, or Geography, where you can locate 
 rubber bands, or cards on you map. Although each class is optional, they are def. fun to play, 
 and its rewarding..
  
  Overall Rockstar made a gem, Bully takes what GTA does, yet puts it into the eyes of a kid, and 
 makes it less adult. While still retaining that freedom to do as you please. (like Giving wedgies, 
 and dunking kids heads in toilets) Even though this is a port, with the extra age, it still is 
 a blast to play, and if you missed it the first time, you def. need to check it out.
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Lots of cool childish weapons, the gameplay is great, well if you forget 
 about the glitches
  Graphics: its improved over the PS2, but not by much.. def. does not look good compare to many 
 other 360 games.. but it does its job..
  Sound: Great original sound track. its original, and fits the game nicely
  Value: the main story 
 takes about 13-20 hours give or take.. but you can easily double that time with extras in the game.. 
 including multiplayer
  Overall: Great game, def. check the game out if you get the chance.. you should experience this 
 game.. weather its one PS2, 360 or Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGMaster72
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Games out did themselves this time! The multiplayer may be different than GTA's multiplayer 
 madness, Bully still delivers a chock full of awesomeness. The script (with some of the best video 
 game voices I've ever heard) is amazing, with some kind of rude, or just plain comedy. The endless 
 possibilities makes this game a masterpiece. And your decisions make chain reactions. Do you skip 
 class, or not? Do hide at campus or in town? Should you slingshot the hobo, or let him be free? 
 See what I mean? The dodgeball is pretty annoying (especially those jock @#$%^&! ) but, otherwise 
 the classes in overall are so easy. Jimmy Hopkins is just the most awesomest guy you probably know 
 in a video game. Okay, to give you my overall review this game is a masterpiece that is highly addictive 
 and I 100% guarantee it will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coheeds_Avatar
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  To push this aside now, this game will undoubtedly draw parallels to Rockstar's other child, Grand 
 Theft Auto, at first glance just because of their shared creator and sandbox style. However, upon 
 playing the game, it becomes clear that this is something different. 
  
  First off, rest assured that THE MAJOR BUG ISSUES HAVE BEEN PATCHED. 
  
  Now, many of the same 
 elements exist in this game as they do in other sandbox style games. You have a character set in 
 a large environment in which you can travel virtually anywhere and do anything you want within 
 the constraints of the game. Specifically, you play the role of Jimmy Hopkins, an angsty teen who's 
 left at Bullworth Academy after his mom ditches him to go on an extended honeymoon with her sleezy 
 husband. He finds a school with clearly defined cliques who each have their own issues with the 
 others. The nerds and jocks are constantly at each others' throats for example. The main story 
 follows Jimmy's quest to stop these "jerks" who are part of the rampant bullying and small scale 
 class war occuring. 
  
  Instead of weapons, your arsenal consists of the tried-and-true slingshot, water balloons, firecrackers, 
 stink bombs, and a potato launcher, to name a few. And instead of killing your adversaries, you 
 knock them out. Once their health reaches a level low enough, you'll also receive the option to 
 humiliate them. This ranges from using your opponent's own fists to punch him in the face, to giving 
 him a nasty wedgie. The fight mechanics work well, and combat becomes a bit more varied as you 
 learn new moves (the knee drop to the crotch of a downed bully is especially satisfying) , but it 
 always maintains its degree of simplicity. 
  
  The mission system takes tasks that would otherwise be mundane and does a decent job of making 
 them interesting by mixing up fetch quests with beat-em ups and chases. In addition to the main 
 story, there are a healthy number of side missions that give you better insight to the lives of 
 your peers and your teachers, as well. More missions become available as you unlock new areas surrounding 
 the school. Bully presents a situation where you'll want to go to class though. Scholarship edition 
 includes new classes not present in the original, and they don't feel tacked on. Upon completion 
 of each class, you'll receive a reward, such as new clothing, or the ability to see the location 
 of certain collectables on your map. The mini games associated with the classes are actually moderately 
 amusing, and even if you don't like them, they're all over within a couple minutes max. Other side 
 quests/attractions include bike and go kart races, errand missions given by others, paper routes, 
 arcade games, and even carnival games and rides. 
  
  Of course, this wouldn't be a Rockstar game without the trademark humor. Your english teacher is 
 a drunk, the comments from the people you pass are usual ridiculous fare, and the nerds'... well, 
 nerdiness, is exaggerated to an extreme. The characters all have their own amusing personalities, 
 even if most are put in place by a stereotype.
  
  Overall, I was pleasantly surprised by Bully. It kept me playing with the "one more mission" hook, 
 and the story was entertaining. Sure, you can't go on a rampage of vehicular destrcution, but the 
 game suffers in no way from it. If you enjoy sandbox games, Bully will give you a bit of a different 
 taste of the genre, and if you're new to the genre, it's a great place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Not too long ago Rockstar games released a highly controversial game for the Playstation 2 called 
 Bully. The game received attention from people such as Jack Thompson and has even been banned in 
 a few countries. Now Bully has been re-released so Xbox 360 and Wii owners can experience the schoolyard 
 mayhem featured in the first game.
  
  For those who never played the PS2 version, the game takes place in the fictional New England town 
 of Bullworth. The game begins with our protagonist Jimmy being driven to the boarding school in 
 Bullworth before his mom and her new husband leave for a ear long honeymoon. In the past Jimmy 
 has been quite the troublemaker thus his parents sent him off to what many consider the worst school 
 in the world in an attempt to straighten him out. The majority of the game is spent dealing with 
 the many cliques at Bullworth. There are five cliques at Bullworth: The bullies, the nerds, the 
 greasers, the preps, and the jocks. The members of the cliques are classic stereotypes, and your 
 goal in the game is to make peace between the cliques.
  
  You do this by completing the many missions in the game. The town of Bullworth is a fairly large 
 area. With a couple smaller sections of the town. It's a free-roaming universe and that gives you 
 a large amount of freedom in the game. You have tons of options while playing. You can play through 
 the missions in the main storyline or you can complete the side missions. You can also do errands 
 for the many townspeople or if you don't feel like doing that there are bike races, a carnival 
 complete with carnival games, and there is a huge amount of collectible items to find. So you should 
 always have something to do.
  
  The combat in Bully is simple, but fun and works great for the game. All of your punches are controlled 
 by the X button. You execute combos by pressing the button or certain amount of times or holding 
 the X button. You start out with only a few combos, but by the end of the game you'll have a ton. 
 Another aspect of the combat is grapples. Using the y button you can grab you opponent and throw 
 them to the ground or punch them with out them being able to defend.
  
  Bully also has a fairly large weapons set. The weapons are mostly teenage style weapons. You have 
 fire crackers, eggs, potato guns, and a slingshot, along with others. These weapons aren't needed 
 that often because your opponents can be knocked out easily enough with just punches. Though the 
 weapons are great to use if you're just trying to have a good time.
  
  One thing that Bully pulls off fantastically is the schoolyard aspect. There are prefects roaming 
 the campus at all times just waiting to bust someone. When you do something that could get you 
 into trouble such as beating up another kid, your trouble meter rises. If a prefect catches you 
 in the act of bullying someone they will try to bust you. If they're chasing after you, your best 
 bet is to run and try and hide somewhere.
  
  Another great schoolyard aspect is classes. There are ten different classes each with five levels 
 of difficulty. The classes go through a five day schedule and each day you have a morning class 
 and an afternoon class. Attending class is optional, but I recommend going to class all the time 
 because the classes give you valuable rewards and some of the classes are actually somewhat fun. 
 In English class you have to make anagrams out of a set of six or seven letters, chemistry consists 
 of pressing buttons at the right time. Art class consists of you trying to for shapes on a canvas 
 without hitting the enemies. In gym class you either wrestle an opponent or play dodge ball. The 
 wrestling parts are very important as they give you new fighting moves. Shop class has you press 
 buttons or use the control sticks with proper timing, Photography gives you certain things located 
 around town to take a picture of and you must go out and find these things.
  
  Scholarship edition has four new classes that weren't in the PS2 version. In biology you get to 
 dissect and examine animals, in music classes you presses the R and L triggers in time to a song. 
 Geography has you locate countries with flags, and lastly in math you are given a small quiz with 
 simple math questions and you must solve them.
  
  Along with the four new classes Bully: Scholarship Edition has a decent amount of other new stuff. 
 There are eight new missions in the game all of which blend into the storyline fantastically. There 
 is also a two player mode where you compete against each other in mini-games. There is also the 
 obvious addition of achievements for the Xbox 360 version. The achievements are very well done 
 and really force you to do stuff you probably wouldn't do normally.
  
  Sadly there is a new addition to Scholorship Edition that wasn't on the PS2 version that makes 
 your experience not as enjoyable. The Xbox 360 version is open to a HUGE amount of glitches. This 
 includes random game crashes, missions not appearing, achievements not unlocking, and others. Luckily 
 Rockstar has released a patch that deals with the glitches and they are gone for the most part, 
 but you may encounter a few still.
  
  The graphics in Bully are pretty good. They have been improved since the PS2 version, but compared 
 to other Xbox games they aren't fantastic. The layouts and designs of the building are great though. 
 The building designs are different in each town and match the personalities of the towns perfectly. 
 For example the town that most of the preps live in is full of fancy looking buildings and just 
 screams rich snobs. The character designs in the game are great too. Rockstar really nailed the 
 stereotypical designs. Such as the greasers with the leather jackets, the nerds with their comb-overs, 
 the preps with their arrogant looks, and the jocks with their letterman jackets. The only real 
 problem with the graphics are slight frame rate problems, but for the most part you won't notice 
 them.
  
  The sound in Bully is also fantastic. The voice acting is amazing and really makes the story come 
 alive. As with the graphics the stereotypes are perfect. The nerds sound like nerds, the greasers 
 sound like they're stuck in the movie "Grease", the jocks sound like brain-dead idiots, and the 
 preps sound like stuck up snobs. The soundtrack is great too. It is fairly repetitive though. When 
 you're just waking around you are listening to one of two fairly boring songs. However if your 
 trouble meter rises or if a member from one of the cliques is chasing you the song quickly changes 
 to an intense chase song. The music really creates an intense mood as you try to escape from your 
 enemies.
  
  The value in Bully is pretty good. The main storyline will probably take you fifteen to twenty 
 hours to complete and if you want to complete the game 100% you're looking at another five or so 
 hours. There isn't much replay value. After you complete the game 100% the only thing left to do 
 is just run around and beat people up which gets old after a while.
  
  All in all, Bully is a great game. Even if you have already played through the game on the PS2 
 it's worth it for the new things and the achievements. I highly recommend you play this game if 
 you're looking for a GTA style game that switches things up and takes you to the schoolyard. Bully 
 is for sure a game you'll remember for a long time. 
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmaeagle14
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Bully is a classic remake of the fabulous game "Canis candem"
  playing as a naughty 15 year old boy named jimmy hopkins makes
  as marvellous game of mischief!
 
  The great things about this game are:
  
  .exploring the huge area of bullworth academy!
  
  .lessons which are actually FUN!
  
  .Making lethal weapons in your bedroom!
  
  Completing 
 errands for small helpless people!
  
  Exploring the vast area of bullworth academy is a credit to this game
  as you can not only explore 
 the school there is also a huge city to get lost in!
  Some fun places to go are: meeting a mad man behind the grotty old school bus to learn new fighting 
 moves, climbing on the gym roof for wooden weapons, exploring the lockerooms (there is always a locker 
 to pick)
  
  Who would buy a game for lessons, well the people who bought bully !
  to start off the lessons are well worth doing as fun biology unravells into 
  cutting rodents 
 up, english unscrambling a bunch of letters to make a word,
  gym fighting for achievments is pretty cool and last but not least chemistry
  where button combos 
 enter the screen (get all of them right and new things are avaliable to make in jimmys chemestry 
 set
  
  Also great missions are introduced into this game followed by some 
  menacingly fun errands for helpless people.
  
  in conclusions bully is a great game for someone 
 who likes a bit of mischief!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdsports
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS SO GREAT IT IS MY FAVORITE ROCKSTAR GAME AND ME AND ALL MY FRIENDS PLAY IT ALL THE 
 TIME I HOPE THERE SHOULD BE A THIRD ONE BUT I WOULD LIKE THERE TO BE ALOT MORE DIFFERENT GROUPS 
 LIKE THE NERDS BUT ALOTT MORE AND ALSO LIKE GTA IV
  THERE SHOULD BE ONLINE CONTENT. I ALSO BELIVE THAT THERE ARE ALOT OF DIFFERENT FACES IN THE GAME 
 BECAUSE EVERY TIME I GO THOUGH A CORRIDOR I SEE THE SAME PEOPLE AGAIN AND AGAIN BUT GAMEPLAY WAS 
 AMAZING. I JUST LOVED GIVIN PEOPLE WEDGIES AND JUST WATCHING THE OTHER KIDS FIGHT IN THE PLAGROUND 
 IT IS IN MY OPINION BETTER THAN ANY GTA GAME I DO REALLY HOPE FOR A THIRD EDITON TO THE SERIES. 
 O MY GOD I JUST REALLY RECOMMEND YOU ALL TO BUY IT THE GAME HAS ENDLESS AMOUNTS OF  
 YOU SHOULD DEFINATELY BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacknbrew
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  For all of you who have played GTA, this game I would recommend because it has that same feeling 
 but just without the rocket launcher. If you were bullied in school like most of us then you will 
 enjoy this game. Give wedgies to bullies, shove the jocks in lockers, and egg your teachers house. 
 This game has a lot of the makings of a great game but it does have a downside. Bully is known 
 to have many glitches and locks up so I would say that you save often. There is more to this game 
 then just being the school bully. You have an entire carnaval to your disposal. Bet on midget boxing, 
 test your strength, go on the rollor costor, and ride the faris wheel. Or maybe the carnaval isnt 
 for you. Maybe race around town on your bike while being chased by the police, or smash lawn gnomes 
 for pleasure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xt3kn1x
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Bully.
  
  I was really excited when this title came out on Playstation a few years back, but at that time 
 I was going through some financial difficulties and my Playstation actually BROKE, so I wasn't 
 able to pick it up. When it was re-released on Xbox, I decided to give it a whirl. I've always 
 been a fan of the Grand Theft Auto series that Rockstar's put out, however, Manhunt didn't really 
 do much for me so this was bound to be an interesting experience.
  
  The game starts off as your mom and her loser man-toy drop you off at Bullworth academy; the last 
 school that will take you as a student. Here you meet some of the main characters of the game and 
 get aquainted to life at Bullworth academy. It starts off pretty fun, where you go on missions 
 to steal things from other students, sneaking through the girl's dorm, and harassing bums. So far 
 the game looked promising, but then the game glitched on me. I had to restart and do all of this 
 ALL over again. How frustrating was that? So anyway, I did all of the missions over and proceeded 
 through, saving a few times but then it glitched on me again. And again. Eventually I got fed up 
 with this game and shelved it for a month.
  
  I was out of games to play so I decided to give Bully a shot one more time. Thankfully when I loaded 
 the game this time there was a patch for it which seemed to fix the glitch-issue. To date, I haven't 
 froze the game yet and lost progress since I stopped playing.
  
  Anyhow, I continued to play and beat this game, which was a fairly mediocre experience. The graphics 
 are outdated, some of the story is just ludicrous (sneaking a drunk teacher out of an insane asylum?) ... 
 But it still held alot of fun through it's monotonous mediocrity in a majority of the game. One 
 of the things that hooked me with Bully (and many other Xbox games) is the achievements were relatively 
 easy to get. I'd reccomend renting this one first. The game "sounds" cool, but isn't as fun as 
 you might think. I've yet to try multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game isa fantastic game by Rockstar which has been overlooked by many all because it is not 
 a GTA game. But this game is actually one of the better games by Rockstar!!!
  
  Gameplay: If you have played even one GTA game you know how this game plays. You are thrown in 
 an open world to do whatever you want like, the hilarious main story, the awesome side quests, 
 or you can just goof around on the streets. This game is toned down though for the "T" rating though 
 so it is almost like the little bro to the GTA games The main story is long and fun, but what really 
 surprised me were the classes and the people at the school and around town. The gameplay is just 
 awesome!
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't too strong in the this game but it is good enough to make excellent 
 character models and enviroments. The night time is kinda' hard to play in because it is a bit 
 too dark though.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is awesome from the creepy-ish main theme to the absolutely phenomanol 
 voice-acting.
  
  Story: The story to this game is hilarious and is definitely worth paying attention to. You play 
 as Jimmy Hopkins who is the new kid at Bullworth Academy. The school has a major bully and social 
 problem that Jimmy is about to fix. Some the characters are lovable and some you will hate a lot. 
 Rockstar definitely did a good job there.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is honestly a joke. I don't know why it was put in there. Rockstar 
 should have just stuck with perfecting the single player.
  
  Overall: The main reason this game BARELY gets a 9.0 is because the game doesn't start out too 
 strong, the multiplayer sucks, and the graphics could have been a bit better. Also after you download 
 the new patch all the glitches in the game are gone so you don't need to worry about that.
  
  Also another problem I had was that I felt like Rockstar should have spent more time polishing 
 and perfecting the game. You can tell this game wasn't given as good of a polishing as Rockstar 
 should have.
  
  The game is still magnificent and I highly reccomend at the very least a rent because this game 
 has not been selling very well and the game is absolutely awesome so I think it deserves a second 
 chance so please pick up Bully: The Scholarship Edition!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawnboy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  bully scholarship ed is a remake of 2006's bully that was on ps2 and now making its come back on 
 the wii and 360 its just a great game you need to play in it you get to do what you always wanted 
 to do in school beat the crap out of the bullies and pick on the nerds well so on you play as a 
 character named jimmy hopkins a kid with nothing to loose he gets dumped in this boarding school 
 because his mum gets married for the 5th time jimmy's kind off a more violenter version of bart 
 simpson when he gets to bullworth academy its worse then he thought you have fight your way through 
 this horrible school and gain respect each chapter you take down a faction and its not hard to 
 understand the way it plays because its made by rockstar games its a fun game with a lot to prove 
 you have to go through classes do missions do errands and other things that are just plain old 
 fun also you get to go through christmas and halloween and its worth noting there is no guns of 
 course because your in a school but its still brilliant its a game you definatley you need to pick 
 up if you have the original there's no point beause there's not a whole lot different but as i 
 said pick it up if you don't have the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerCCXXII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I for one didn't think this game deserved a 7.0 rating. I would say atleast a 8.0-8.5 is more like 
 it. It may have not has been as "brutal" as the GTA titles, but it's milder approach to destruction 
 and mayhem were done beautifully. The missions were not really too hard, but kept me amused. The 
 story line was fun and probably better suited for a teenage age group. I'm a 28 year old gamer 
 and the game kept me amused, now I'm just trying to get 100% completion. That reminds me, if you're 
 into building up your XBOX Live gamer score this game helps fill that need. TONS of accomplishments 
 to strive for, plus you'll have fun doing it. Finally, the camera angles along with the controls 
 sometimes screw with you when you're playing. That is the only flaw I saw with this game and I'm 
 sure a lot of you fellt the same way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Having never played Bully for PS2, this was a totally new game to me. I had heard all about the 
 glitches and was concerned, but not enough to put me off of buying it. I can tell you that I am 
 glad I ignored all the negative reviews because this game is a LOT of fun. 
  
  I doubt that for anyone who has already played Bully for PS2, there is really any reason to buy 
 this edition. In fact, I don't know what extras are included in the Scholarship Edition that were 
 not included in the original.
  
  So, as I said, this was a totally new game to me, and I will review it as such. With GTA as the 
 obvious inspiration, this game is a nice twist on the formula as it is far less intense, much more 
 lighthearted, and just as biting and sarcastic as ever. Typically, I don't pay much attention to 
 cuts-scenes in games (aside from the Metal Gear series anyway) , but the dialogue in this game is 
 generally pretty funny, and always entertaining. 
  
  The tasks in this game are varied, but with an emphasis on button mashing, which is just fine with 
 me, because as repetitive as that can be, it never really gets old as long as its moving the story 
 along.
  
  There are also classes to attend which is really just a series of mini games, such as matching 
 flags to countries, dissecting frogs (think Trauma Center for DS, but using the analog sticks) , 
 solving simple math problems, and playing drums using the triggers.... amongst others. These are 
 a nice diversion from the usual tasks, and usually reward you with some bonus (such as an increasing 
 health meter) .
  
  The flow of the game is also very well handled. As it begins, you are only allowed to navigate 
 in and around the school. Then, after completing the first chapter, the town is opened up, and 
 you can go to carnival (more mini-games) , find odd jobs to earn money, and generally cause havoc 
 like in any good sandbox game.
  
  The only downside to this game is that its a PS2 era game with slightly enhanced visuals. The "enhancing" 
 has made some elements of the game unstable. On the plus side, never once for me did it affect 
 the gameplay. I didn't have to replay any portions of the game due to a crash, but I saved often, 
 just to be safe. So, while the actual "fun-ness" of the game was never a question, the graphical 
 glitches were pretty annoying, which in my book, means one less point on the review scale.
  
  So, for those GTA fans looking for a nice twist on the same old formula, this is a great option. 
 There are enough tasks that getting to 100% completion will take a good long time, and you will 
 have fun time doing it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vermin14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say to any whos not thinking about buying this game because they think it the 
 same stuff you should give it a chance. Not only does it have more classes biology math music an 
 more with all the old classes two thers a few new clothes witch some are cool some not an some 
 just funny now let me got off the clothes stuff. theres new missons which are okay but sometimes 
 there just easy tasks. there is a few new erands to anybody who wanted two know and the achivments 
 which are cool an sometimes challenging to get but well worth it. now lets talk about the multiplayer 
 its wackey an fun its jimmy an gary going in school classes an differnt games which depending on 
 the players skill should be easy. and im about done lets talk about the big issues the bugs so 
 far i have experniced only five an they are it takes a class a long time to load sometimes the 
 game just freeses for no reason. you get in one spot an everything still runs but you cant move 
 until youre knocked out at two sometimes the arcade game wont play an you have to enter an exit 
 the buliding are wherever you are last one it you sometimes complete a misson and it makes you 
 have to do it again. not so bad but not so good all in all bully is a fun game an worth renting 
 are buying either way youll have fun. only advice i can give for the bugs is save often an download 
 the patch from live if you have it. l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheelman112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  okay, first things first, WHY DOES IT ALWAYS FREEZE UP?!?!?! the game is fun, funny, witty, smart, 
 addicting, and great missions, but when you finally beat that really long mission or a load of 
 them, it freezes. what a way to piss someone off. now this isnt just a one-disk-in-piticular type 
 thing, all the copies have bugs. dont get me wrong, this is a great game, but if it just ran smoothly 
 and didnt have some many damn glitches, it would probably be one of the best rpgs for the 360. 
 i played and owned bully for the ps2 and it was no doubt my favorite game, but making it so screwed 
 up on the 360 (which is the strangest thing ever) i brought the game back after 2 or 3 days. i 
 beat all the missions fine, doing the side missions, finished all the go karts and all the bikes, 
 and as i was riding over to a safe house, i fall off my bike (by accident) and of course, you know 
 what happens, my body is floating on its side in the middle of the street, cant move, cant get 
 up, completly messed up. my final verdict: good game, fun side missions, probably one of the best 
 senses of humor in a game ive ever seen, but if it wasnt for those good-for-nothing glitches, it 
 would be a masterpeice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Ever wondered what a considerably less violent free-roam Rockstar game might be like? Well Bully 
 is that experiment. Place yourself in a school, where you do 2 classes a day, or can ditch, and 
 adventure about the town mowing lawns, racing bikes, visiting the carnival, boxing with Preps; 
 it's all here. While I do make that sound like a wide range of things to do, this game will last 
 about 20-25 hours if you're going for a 100% completion, but then again, none of it is really filler.
 
  
  The story premise is as such: you're 15, name is Jimmy Hopkins, sent to Bullworth Academy, and 
 you plan to make a name for yourself. Along the way, things happen, people get betrayed, and the 
 stereotypes rise up from their usual. This is along 5 chapters of gameplay. As any "life sim" of 
 which I use loosely, you have 24 hours to do activities. When you wake up you start the day at 
 8 AM. 9:30-11AM is a class, as well as 1-2:30 PM (I'm pretty sure that's the second class time) , 
 and you can either go to these classes or ditch them. 
  
  Classes consist of one of 8, depending on the day. You have to pass each class 5 times to fully 
 complete it, which, is a lot more fun with a guide I'd say.
  
  The story missions themselves are pretty fun; you might be using a potato machine gun built by 
 nerds, saving alcoholic teachers, playing pranks on the Jocks, or throwing eggs at Preps. There's 
 a lot of variety to expect from a Rockstar game, without all the guns and such.
  
  There is one co-op mode, but it's pretty much just playing mini-games against a friend and is pretty 
 forgettable. The achievements range from easy (staying out 5 hours after curfew) to difficult (100% 
 completion) , but none of them are ridiculous and take lots of time on their own. It's all cumulative. 
 The replay value is pretty low, once you get 100% I doubt you'll be riding around the town egging 
 cars or just assaulting pedestrians, but I guess certain people have different mind-sets.
  
  In all honesty, I'd like to recommend this game as a rental or use GameFly. I give this game 
 the same score GS gave it, and that's a 7. It's a great game while it lasts.
  
  Notice: All the bugs mentioned by everyone have been fixed by a patch downloadable via Xbox Live 
 when you put the game in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  A pretty addictive game, especially once you finish the first chapter. The game has frozen a few 
 times at specific spots of the game - for example in one of the gym classes. After a couple of 
 freezes, I decided not to use the joystick and the game didn't freeze! It's weird but it doesn't 
 happen a lot - however if you haven't saved your game and it freezes, you will have to end up repeating 
 tasks, classes, etc up to that point which is a bummer as some of the classes are tough (especially 
 biology!!)
  
  Apart from that, the game is addictive and made me feel like a tough guy at school (in reality 
 I wasn't) . The mini games are fun during the classes and the story keeps me going. Also it clocks 
 in a lot of hours so this is not a short game.
  
  One cool thing about the game is giving the main character different haircuts and hair colour! 
 There are small little things like that in the game that make it cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition is by all means a very different game. Almost everything about is unique 
 and fresh from the structure of the game, to the plot, to the game-play. The game has this almost 
 boyish charm which really shines though in it's amazingly funny and realistic dialogue and excellent 
 and simple mission design. The game is bug free with the update now provided to users of Xbox live 
 and I was able to play through the game without any freezes. Despite this there are a few graphical 
 glitches and the odd sound glitch but it's nothing that distracts from the experience or hinders 
 your game play. 
  The graphics in the game are good for what they try to achieve. It's going for the cartoon like 
 feel, the same type of graphics basically the GTA games from the last generation went for. The 
 360 takes the old PS2 graphics and sharpens them quite a bit making them very well done. Some of 
 the animations sadly are the same as the PS2 ones and the graphics on world items such as cars 
 and other things look boxy and when they move sort of look like a trolly on tracks. Other then 
 that though the graphics are essentially good but Rockstar has never really made graphics a huge 
 deal.
  The gameplay is excellent and Rockstar did an amazing game in making a solid port. The achievements 
 in the game unlike most are a joy to get and you get a real sense of joy out of getting 100%. The 
 game lasts good 20-30 hours if you choose to 100% it. The missions are very fun but quite short 
 in comparison to games from the Grand theft auto series. On the other hand though there are more 
 then a hundred missions and side missions. You can also do optional missions called errands which 
 are a blast to do and provide you with a quick buck. There are also arcade games, go kart racing, 
 and bike races to keep you entertained. The game also has excellent social interactions and a very 
 well done 'bullying' addition. You can taunt, give wedgies, beat, and do many other things. All 
 of this is in good taste though and nothing is over the top. It's the stuff you see on the typical 
 kid's TV show but still very fun to do. 
  Overall Bully is a very fun game and a game not to be missed by anyone looking for a good action 
 adventure game. It's worth the price right now which is about 40 dollars and the game will help 
 ease the 12 or so days left to GTA IV. This is a game well worth picking up right now and I do 
 highly suggest you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the first Bully so I can't say that it is all the same thing over again. But 
 now to the game in general. The gameplay is fun and very entertaining. There is a lot of parts where 
 you will just die of laughter. The story mode is very long and a story that is kinda hard to lock 
 on to and want to play for hours at a time, but the roaming around is the fun part. I never thought 
 it would be fun to do a paper route or mow a lawn. But some of the missions are easy but some are 
 just way to hard and you will have to play over and over. Its fun and funny that you learn moves 
 from a hobo that is a war veteran. The classes are all good and challenging, all of the with the 
 exception of chemistry class all it is is button mashing, not very innovative if you ask me. But 
 you will be near vomiting while Biology is going on, kinda nasty but really fun. Now to the bad.: (There 
 are many bugs and glitches, there is parts where you will be running or skating and the entire part 
 of the map in front of you will disappear and come back after a second or two. But later on in the 
 game that goes away (or at least it did with me) . It also has no multiplayer, but it does have co-op 
 which is nice. I was originally going to give this a 8.5 but Ms. Phillips "bribed" me if you know 
 what i mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocalypse324
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I never got the chance to play this on the PS2 because of other 
 games I was playing at the time. I also must add how glad I am that Rockstar decided to update 
 and port this over to the 360 or it would have been a game I sadly would of missed out on.
  
  Story- 
  
  You are 15 year old Jimmy Hopkins who has been sent away to Bullworth academy 
 after being expelled from many other schools, and your should be caring mother gets married and 
 decides to go on a year long Honeymoon instead of taking care of you.
  
  You will soon find out that Bullworth Academy is not like any other school you have attended. You 
 are going to have to fight your way through school both physically and mentally if you want to 
 survive. Jimmy is going to have to do many different tasks for many different cliques ranging from 
 nerds to Jocks, Prefects to Greasers, and everything in between.. 
  
  Gameplay-
  
  Bully is a very solid playing game that is going to take you all over Bullworth academy and through 
 the town of Bullworth. As just stated the game plays great, the only problems I came across are 
 sometimes while doing the bike races you can get pretty bad camera angles. Other than that nothing 
 else is really a problem.
  
  There are a total of 10 classes that are taken in Bully, including 
  
  Mathematics- which will 
 pop a question up on the left side of the screen with the answers to choose from on the right, 
 you have to get as many right as you can before time runs out.
  
  English- Consists of about 6 letters scrambled up and you have to figure out as many words as you 
 can that can be made from those letters. Its not difficult, but its not as easy as it sounds.
 
  
  Biology- Dissection, plain and simple. An animal will be on screen and everything done in a dissection 
 is done in the game, from pinning the animal down to magnifying a body part, then cutting out and 
 removing it.
  
  Art- Move a pencil around a box to make smaller boxes that eventually reveal a picture, all while 
 avoiding erasers and scissors trying to destroy your work.
  
  Music- Basically it just consists of pressing the Left and Right triggers as the Music notes pass 
 through the boxes (Dance Dance Revolution style) . Also not as easy as it sounds.
  
  Geography- Oh god how I suck at this. You have to match flags from different countries and states 
 to the one it belongs to thats it. Did I mention I suck this?
  
  Chemistry- by far the easiest of the classes, Match buttons as they scroll horizontally into a 
 box. Buttons that will be used are the A, B, X, Y, LT, LB, RT, and RB.
  
  Photography- Take pictures of different things around town.
  
  Gym- Play a game of Dodgeball 
 and and wrestle with fellow classmates.
  
  Shop- Match button prompts to fix a bike. 
  
  Each class consists of 5 courses and something is unlocked after each each course is finished.
 
  
  Combat-
  
  Bully has a lock on system that makes it really easy to hit any target you are aiming at and if 
 the target is not a human than you can push the up button on the directional pad to get more of 
 a first person view and can then zoom in on the target. 
  
  As with classes, the game also has many different weapons that can be used against opponents, and 
 since this is a school, you wont find any Guns and Knives, because that would be unheard of right? 
 (sarcasm was used in that last statement, so if you didnt realize that and feel you need to send 
 me some harassing email, well go ahead and send it because they can be funny and I like laughing 
 at people but just know that I was kidding.
  
  Weapons-
  
  Firecrackers- To be thrown at people or flushed down toilets, take your pick
  
  Slingshot- 
 If you dont know what a slingshot is used for, you probably cant read anything I have written anyways.
 
  
  Skateboard- Not exactly a weapon, but hey just imagine if you could use it as one
  
  Stink Bomb- throw at your enemies to make gag in a cloud of smoke.
  
  Marbles/Bananas- Spread 
 on the ground to make enemies slip and fall.
  PERSONAL RECOMMENDATION- spread in front of a doorway and then pull a fire alarm for some good 
 entertainment.
  
  Apples- Good for you health, Better to throw at people
  
  Eggs- Throw at people, cars, buildings the choice is yours.
  
  Itching Powder- For if your 
 itching to have a good time. (my attempt at a bad joke)
  
  Bottle Rocket laucher/SpudGun- Shoot at people with them, what else.
  
  Spray paint- for the 
 aspiring Graffiti artist
  
  Soda- Despite what youve been told, its good for your health
  
  Camera- I dont feel I need to explain anything here
  
  Rubberband Ball- Try to unlock this 
 early on because it is lots of fun
  
  GRAPHICS-
  
  This isnt the best looking game of all time, but it isnt at all ugly either. You can tell where 
 more work was spent on the main character and the one that play an important role in the game, 
 than other random students.
  
  OVERALL-
  
  Bully is a great game and it may seem as if you beat it fairly quickly, but that is not because 
 it is a short game but because you have just been playing it so much and dont even relise it until 
 you save and see how many hours you have put into it.
  It is easily a 25+ hour game and well worth the $50 price tag, And for anyone who loves achievements, 
 in Bully they are both easy to come by, and they do not feel like they are a chore to get. Even 
 on missions where it might say "collect 75 rubber bands" it is not like most games where you just 
 feel like it is to much work, but you actually feel like it is something you should do (and it 
 is) .
  If you own a 360 and Are looking for a game to play then pick this up, Im sure glad I did.
  
 
  Final- Im still not a fan of having to grade by .5 increments, but even if that was not the case, 
 I would give Bully an 8.5 and recommended it to anybody.
  
  Well anyody that qualifies for the "T" and above rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpbmpb
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  it is very good and you can steal bikes and you get a skateboard sddddddddd ddddddddd ddddddddddddddd 
 ddddddddddd dddddddddddddd ddddddddddddddd ddddddddddd ddddddd dddddddd ddddddddd ddddddd d dddddddddddddddd 
 ddddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddd dddddddddddddddddddd ddddddddddddddd 
 ddddddddddd ddddddddddddddddd ddddddddddddd dddddddddd ddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddd ddddddddddd 
 dddddddd dddddddddd ddddddddd ddddddddddd ddddddddddddddd dddddddddddddd ddddddddddddddddd dddddddddd 
 dddddddddddddddd ddddddddddddddd ddddddddddddd dddddddddddddddddddd dd dddd dddddddd ddddddddddddd 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it you pie pie it uit yy yy y yy y y y y y y 
 y y y y y y y y y yy i ii i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i ii 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i ii i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Catacome
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game is the greatest.... I was shocked when I played it.... everybody was saying it was just 
 a replica of the ps2 version???? Heck no!!! This game was 20 times better... better graphics better 
 gameplay.... also everyone kept on sayin framerate was bad... but I mean come on framerate dont even 
 matter to me... or should to you.... The reason I gave this game a 9.5 an not a ten, even tho I said 
 it was the greatest game was because the thing it lacks most in this 360 version and in the ps2 
 version is there is nothing to do after you get to 100%... I mean come on... This game is goin to 
 be remembered but people should still have things to do after they finish it... I didnt get 100% 
 in ps2 only on 360 because of the achievements but come one!!!! It pushed me to my goal.... I love 
 this game to death.... But I just wish I still had something to do after wards... Now Im on to army 
 of two... who knows maybe I would still be playing this if they had more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SparkzFisher93
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  A few years back Bully came out for the PS2. For those of us who didnt have a PS2 (me inclued) 
 could not play this game that was apparently SO FREAKING AWSOME!!! Now however, we have our chance 
 to play it. And we can rub the new missions and stuff in the faces of our friends who have a PS2 
 and the original Bully
  
  Story: The kid you play as in the game is Jimmy Hopkins (hope i spelled that right) , he is a pretty 
 good charicter who really changes from the begging of the game to the end. When you start the game 
 your mom and step dad drop you off in a school and pretty much you just have to work so that you 
 can fit in with the other kids. The game has alot of really cool, funny, and nice charicters that 
 really make the game great.
  
  Graphics: The game looks really really good. It has AMAZING shadow and lighting effects that make 
 the game look and feel almost real. The only problum is that when you step outside, the graphics 
 look alot worse for some reason. Its hard to explain but it just looks bad outside. But overall 
 the game looks great and the charicters have alot of detail.
  
  Sound: The sound for this game isnt bad. I have surround sound and for some reason for this game 
 only it doesnt seem to work. Voice acting is one of the best ive heard. The music is great. It 
 is really catchy and one of the best parts of the game. 
  
  Gameplay: The Combat in the game is alot like GTA. You lock on, then just beat the shiv out of 
 your enemy. You can also pick up a number of diffrent weapons that all work great. The way you 
 do missions is just like GTA. You have marks oon the map that you go to and then you talk to the 
 person then you do the mission they give you. ITs really fun and there are alot of story missions 
 and side missions. The only bad thing about the game (aside from the graphics outside) is that 
 getting 100% in the game goes from fun to "IM GOING TO KILL SOMEONE!!!!!" really quickly.
  
  Overall the game is great. It has alot of great story elements (the story is alot like GTA 
 in a way) and the charicters are some of the best in a video game. There is ALOT of things to keep 
 you occupied for a good period of time. If you have the money ($50) then go out and buy the game 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I rented this and good thing i didint buy it, this game is one of the most boring and broken games 
 i have played on the xbox 360...... the graphics are horrible they look like regular playstation 
 graphics... worse then PS2 graphics..... missions are BROKEN and GLITCHY with crappy glitches... like 
 lets say you are on a timed mission you have 60 seconds to deliver something to someone... You have 
 to go OUTSIDE the school and the loading screen takes 20 seconds... YOU LOSE 20 SECONDS because 
 of the loading screen WOW it doesnt take 20 seconds to walk through a freaking door... Other glitches 
 like people beating you up in front of the authority and u have to defend yourself AND THEN THEY 
 LET THE ATTACKER GET AWAY AND THE BUST YOU OMG... BROKEN... Horrible gameplay, horrible controls, 
 horrible game overall I DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS GAME THIS IS ONE OF THE WORST FOR THE XBOX 360 So 
 with crappy graphics, crappy gameplay, crappy missions BORING...., crappy story... I give this 
 game a FAIL not even worth $20...$5 at most geez this is boring as heck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Okay, lets get straight into it now, Bully: SE is a port with a few extra added missions, if you 
 played the PS2 version theres nothing here that you're really going to need to play, where as if 
 you didn't play the PS2 version right now would be a perfect time to get in on some pretty good 
 (though not the best) Rockstar action. 
  
  Bully is the story of ugly hooligan Jimmy Hopkins whose parents pretty much hate him cus he's an 
 evil little 15 year old so they send him to Bullworth Academy to get straightened out. While out 
 Bullworth, Jimmy will encounter all your stereotypical clques, crazy teachers, and that one crazy 
 kid who has a plan to take over the school... yeah. 
  
  Gameplay wise, Bully is very much like its uncle that your dad hates because he's cooler than you, 
 aka Grand Theft Auto. Don't let anyone tell you that they're completely different games, cus they're 
 not. The scenario is different, but gameplay wise they're pretty much the same. You run around 
 a big open world, do missions, beat up kids, wreak teenage havok, run from prefects, ect. The story 
 is mostly progressed by objectives and every once and a while you'll want to go to classes in order 
 to up your ability to make things like fireworks or mack on the ladies better. There is nothing 
 that new here going on, but never the less it's enjoyable.
  
  Technically speaking the game is pretty terrible. I've always said the Renderware engine looks 
 pretty bad and this is no difference. Don't get me wrong the 360 version looks leaps and bounds 
 better than the PS2 and Wii version since it has better textures and lighting, but still... this 
 game isn't winning any rewards. Two gripes I have are the fact that Jimmy is just so ugly to look 
 at and for some reason everyone's ring and pinky finger are stuck together. Audio wise, the game 
 is completely different. The voice acting is top notch with your classic Rockstar wit. The best 
 is when you're walking through the halls of school and you hear someone say something like "man 
 it itches down there." Like I said, classic Rockstar.
  
  Overall, do you NEED to play Bully? No. Should you? If you haven't I'd say yes. It is definitely 
 an enjoyable game that will get you in the mood for GTAIV later this month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has become a great enjoyment to play for my wife and I. She doesn't like many games but 
 can pick this up and play by herself without any help. 
  
  The game has lots of humor and funny situations that you would imagine havign to deal with in high 
 school. The whole makeout thing makes the game very realistic and fun! Some of the missions suck 
 but for the most part they are very enjoyable to play as you pass and graduate to the next level 
 of the game.
  
  There are a lot of glitches tho on the game in which it clips and players are there and then they 
 dissappear out of thin air. On only one occassion the game froze completely on us and I had to 
 shut the xbox off and then turn it back on... lost my progress at that point in the game... pissed 
 me off. Otherwise the game is a lot of fun to play and can be enjoyed by anyone who wants to reminice 
 about those times back in high school! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Same, fun gameplay you've come to expect; awesome open world; improved graphics; soundtrack 
 still rocks; pretty lengthy; a good amount of extra content
  
  The Bad: A ton of noticeable glitches; graphics are improved, but aren't up to par with other 360 
 games 
  
  This'll be a relatively short review.
  
  Bully was released 2 years ago on the PS2. It was a hit with fans, and those itching to get a taste 
 of a more... civilized (I use that term lightly) Grand Theft Auto. Now, Bully: Scholarship Edition 
 has been released, and, surprisingly, it still has the same entertaining scenarios and gameplay 
 elements that you remember from the last one. 
  
  Let's start with the story. Jimmy Hopkins, a 15 year old trouble maker, is being sent to Bullworth 
 Academy, a school full of misfits and maniacs itching to punch you in the face. His mom remaried, 
 Jimmy is to stay at Bullworth until his mom, and his new dad return from their honeymoon... in one 
 year.
  
  You immediately meet Gary: an insane psychopath who dreams of taking over the school any way he 
 can, with Jimmy's help. Along the way, you attend classes, which are minigames which earn you weapons, 
 clothing, abilities, ect., help out different people, and try to survive in Bullworth Academy. 
 
  
  In order to take over the school, you have to take over its different factions. There's the Nerds: 
 Geeks who aren't very strong, but have a wide range of stink bombs, fire crackers and the like; 
 Preps: Rich kids who have good boxing skills and combos, and whos main weapon are eggs; Greasers: 
 Who like to fight in numbers; and, of course, Jocks: Mindless, but strong guys who are especially 
 hard to defeat in numbers.
  
  This is basically the same as the last game, with 4 new classes and some new missions. However, 
 even though you're playing the same game, it's still incredibly fun to play again, and relive some 
 fun times at Bullworth. There are a ton of game glitches though. You'll see Jimmy spin in his chair 
 every time he sits down in class, and other annoyances that simply cannot be overlooked.
  
  Now for the graphics. Yes, they have been improved, but they're no where near what the 360 is capable 
 of. They still look great though. There was a strange lighting problem at times, though, but nothing 
 too extreme. There's a good amount of visual glitches that are, again, hard to ignore at times.
 
  
  Bully's soundtrack lives on in the Scholarship Edition. Yes, it's the same, and yes, it still rocks.
 
  
  The games got a pretty long story, side quests and all. You'll spend a good amount of time playing, 
 even after you beat the game, though, for some of the games fun achievements. There's also a multiplayer 
 mode, but there's just a couple of minigames, not the actual story (Which would've been awesome... think 
 about it... egging people houses together... riding a bike with a friend on the back shooting people 
 on your tail with a slingshot... that would've been awesome!) .
  
  Altogether, you'll have to look past a ton of noticeable glitches, but buried underneath is a fun, 
 enjoyable game that'll tide you over till GTA IV comes around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bragkiller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  now jimmy hopkins is one messed up sob. but i think his time at bullworth accademy was a good one. 
 for the folowing reasons...
  
  1: great voice acting make the game funny at the right times wile also getting the point across.
 
  2: fun missions will always make you strive to beat the next one.
  3: funny array of weapons from the slingshot to the fire cracker..
  
  
  Now this game dosnt 
 come without its share of bugs and glitches...
  
  1: bad framerate issues usually have you running through congested hallways in bulletime matrix 
 lllllaaaaggggg mode
  2: buggy game that lets you get stuck in walls.... floating objects...... unloaded character moldels 
 ruin the fun.
  3: terrible graphics for a 360 game.. if your lookin for a ps2 version of bully, youv come to the 
 right place..... jimmy hopcins is ugly past remorse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Bully is a fun game and it will keep you busy for many hours. There is so much to do and so much 
 to explore. I think they fixed the game with the recent online update, because it freezes on me 
 after 16 hours of straight play. I can't really complain about that. The game is like GTA without 
 the blood and mayhem, and it's just as much fun in its own right. Rockstar makes great games!! 
 I'm surprised Gamespot didn't give this game a higher rating. It has tremendous replay value, and 
 since it's an open world, you can do whatever you like in just about any order you want to do it 
 in. The graphics are good, the sound is great, and the gameplay can be a bit choppy at times, but 
 it's not bad at all. This game is a breath of fresh air from the 1st and 3rd person shooters. I 
 would highly recommend it to anyone who has never played it before. It is certainly worth the price 
 of admission. If you're looking for a fun game, then Bully is for you! :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: powrbyalienware
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The updated version of 2006's Bully has new content, new humour, and generally more to the game. 
 And it's a winner.
  
  The game does not have enough new content to justify its $49.95 price (the original game was $39.95.) 
 New content includes hilarious new missions with "Rudy," an ~80 year old man who pretends to be 
 Santa Claus. Also included are four new classes (Geography is the most useful because it maps all 
 the cards, rubber bands and transistors) , and new clothes (Aquaberry is a hoot)
  
  The setting of the game is still '80s (in my opinion) though the cars now look as new as mid-late 
 '80s. The social setting of the game is still out in force, with the interactions between cliques 
 more profound than the first game.
  
  The prefects are still total jerks. They can still instantaneously grapple you to the ground (unrealistic) 
 and they still assault you with names like "evil-doer" and tell you that you don't matter. Knocking 
 prefects out is still very entertaining, and one of the most fun ways to kill some time.
  Strategies for knocking out the prefects include getting on top of buildings and using a Super 
 Slingshot to send those suckers straight to the Infirmary!
  
  This game rocks, though if you've played the original, you may not choose to get SE. I recommend 
 it, though, to veteran Bully players and newcomers to the Bully series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cena626
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Wuz up people! It's me and i'm going to talk about the new bully game, Bully Scholarship Edition. 
 It may be funner than the original but here's a reason that I rated the original 10 and the SE 
 9.5. In SE when I rented the game would freeze up about every 2 hours and I usally forget to save 
 and that really makes me mad. But in SE they added great updates like the new missions. Rockstar 
 games also had a good idea by improving the characters and the graphics (which wasn't that big 
 of a deal but still) . I think one of there best updates is the new classes (by new I mostly mean 
 biology) . I looooooove biology class. Cutting things open is so fun especially the pig. That was 
 fun!!!!!! Math class is super easy. But geography sucks and is so freakin' boring. I hate geography! 
 And the other class..... uh I can't remember. Oh ya music, music is kinda fun but is not that great. 
 I'm not a bully, but I love this game so much because it's hilarious!!!!!!!! Well that's all I 
 have to say about the new Bully and thanks Rockstar games :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes cancelled games can be a good thing, but back in 2006, Xbox owners everywhere were mourning 
 the loss of a possible Bully for the Xbox. About 18 months later, Xbox 360 can finally get a chance 
 to visit Bullworth Academy with Bully Scholarship Edition with even more wedgies, stink bombs, 
 and panty raids than you could imagine. But the question that you want answered is... is it worth 
 it to buy an old PS2 game? HELLS YES!!! Unfortunatley the performance isn't up to par with games 
 like Mass Effect and Call of Duty 4, but how many games could you say, "I gave a nerd a wedgie"? 
 NONE!!!
  
  Whats good about the game? Well, the open world is still intact from the PS2 game. As well the 
 impressive gameplay can almost be matched up with such titles as WarioWare.
  
  However, the load times are riduculosy long and the pop-up is also inexcusible.
  
  Final Verdict: 
 Lets face it. Sandbox games aren't remembered for their amazing stories. But you're inner explorer 
 won't be able to resist the open world that is, Bulllworth Academy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  bully scholarship edition for 360 holds down a 50$ price tag and a game that came out about two 
 years ago. seriously this game is a low budget game priced at 50, the voice acting is terrible, 
 there isnt much new editions from the original ps2 version the graphics or low budget material, 
 very repetive very two years ago. i was looking foward to this game sence i did not have chance 
 to pick up bully when it first came out, however its not even worth renting if you havent even 
 picked this game up. the missions are kept very bland and simple and everything from the fighting 
 system to the skateboarding seems so well wrong rockstar really needs to clean itself up with gta4 
 or they will be in serious trouble, i cant even write i review on this game in context or in any 
 detailed form its so terrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagerlicious
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong im a big fan of Rockstar, but bully looks like a low budget game. This game 
 is broken in many different areas, starting with all the annoying bugs, freezes and load times, 
 but what really pisses me off is that in school and out in the streets its always the same 3 people 
 walking around, and every time i accidentally bump into someone the police appear out of thin air. 
 The clock goes by so fast i pass out 3 times before making it anywhere. Some of the classes are 
 interesting, but who cares about learning!! im playing this game have fun, not to learn crap. and 
 what's the point of getting 20 different shirts if there is no effect on the game, and don't say 
 laughing, cuz everybody laughs at you when you are not in uniform. Another thing, the map is one 
 of the worst maps I've seen, looks like it was drawn in ms paint, also as i walked around the neighborhood, 
 i saw a lot of houses, but i couldn't even get into the yard, the only place i can walk around 
 is the street!! WTF!! sure the map looks big, but if you take out all the places you can't go, 
 it turns out to be a really small world. Also why wont picking fights or making peace affect the 
 game? this is one of the most ridiculous things. The music really sucks. Aiming sucks too. At first 
 I wanted to cause a lot of mayhem like GTA, but I soon learned that this was not the game, and 
 I accepted that, but even playing "nice" made everything a drag.. GTA San Andreas did not have 
 the best A. I. but it was fun, and the map was big, there was practically no load times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your a kid at bullworth academy. Live the life of a boarding school student who can be a 
 good or bad bully.
  
  Missions: random objectives given to you by friends
  
  Controls: xbox 360 controller. Standard Controls.
  
  Features: ok storyline, intresting concept
 
  
  A. I.: its ok. They dont go crazy or anything but they are not the best either
  
  Loading Times: short, usually around 30 seconds when loading into diffrent areas.
  
  Graphics: 
 Not bad. but they should be alot better seeing as how long they have had to develop it and polish 
 it.
  
  Audio: Amazing. Voice acting is superb. Everything is good about the Audio.
  
  
  Multiplayer: Mini Games.
  
  Requirements: Xbox 360, Internet,
  
  The Good: Audio and 
 story
  
  The Bad: Not The Best Graphics
  
  The Ugly: Everybody at the school 
  
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: A new concept to free roam games that cant pull it 
 off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR4D_B4K3R
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  The pro's:
  
  - Fun trip through amnesia lane. Hittin' all the classic high school... dare I say it... aw, h3ll, 
 why not... tom-foolery!
  -Dynamic environment lending to seasonal transition was excellent, and the slight physics change 
 with the snow depth on the skateboard / bicycle dynamic was equally top-notch (concidering this 
 ain't a board / bike game
  -Fun and amusing plot line and development
  - intuitive controls lends to ease of pick up and play.
  - The classrooom mini games are fun... 
 almost make we want to stay in school ;)
  
  The Cons:
  - Load screens every five seconds is a little fast to digest the "tips" that they display, Rockstar 
 should have fixed the timing from the PS2 processor to deal with the 360's slightly more powerful 
 engine.
  - Rockstar could take a tip from Saint's Row... NO LOAD SCREENS!!!! Having a load screne EVERY 
 time I enter/exit a place gets REALLY annoying. this is further plagues with the affore mentioned 
 slide-show.
  -Some of the missions are too repititious.
  
  The Sum:
  Good game. Great price. Because of the value for the buck, you may as well get it and play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  "Jimmy Hopkins is it? I heard you are quite the trouble maker." When Bully first released in 2006 
 for the PS2 I wanted it so badly. However, I was one of the few who jumped directly full gear into 
 the next generation of gaming and was completely aligned with my 360. I had too many other new 
 games to play. Luckily, the nice folks at Rockstar read my mind and ported this game to the 360 
 with some major improvements.
  
  THE GRAPHICS are not a complainable. Its actually not bad looking at all, but it falls very short 
 when stacked next to other 360 titles. However, this is after all a port of a PS2 game, and I will 
 say that it looks drastically better than the PS2 version, so I'm not complaining.
  
  THE SOUND is great. It supports great voice acting as well as some hilarious one liners here and 
 there. The music fits it perfectly and nothing gets better than hearing "I woke up this morning 
 saying to myself, I'm gonna beat up a kid today."
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is something else. Literally, its like nothing before. It is almost like GTA: School 
 edition. You perform errands, complete missions and...... go to class? Yep, and believe it or not 
 its actually fun. The classes all increase your knowledge and allow for you to do more things in 
 the game such as have better accuracy for your slingshot, learn more fighting moves, be more romantic 
 etc. The fighting in the game is fuild, and feels great. You also can perform pranks such as wedgies 
 or throw stink bombs on people very easily. Add in the fact that you get new classes with this 
 addition and your looking at the best edition of this game. Trust me, there is no way not to have 
 fun on Bully.
  
  In the end, Bully is not a school simulator; no, its everything you wanted to do in school and 
 then some. If you don't already own Bully then now is your best chance to own it such as I did. 
 Bully is the start of a new great franchise, and I'm looking forward to future titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeloman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Bully was a great game last year for the ps2 and ported over it stands up on the 360 its a great 
 game on the 360 even tho it has some problems with the bugs and hickups ( usually while running 
 ) but a patch is on the way witch is fine. this game is one of the best games to come out other 
 than army of two this past weekish. the reason a 9.5 .5 was lost because of the graphics but thats 
 not what i look for in most games. but they did a nice job on updating the graphics like the characters 
 look alot better than the ps2 verson, some new fun classes, more missions, great side missions. 
 the place is very big to explore. if you have this game for ps2 and you have a 360 you should pick 
 this game up it is at a great price just 49.99 10 cheaper than most 360 games!. also the achivments 
 in this game are great you usually get about 20 - 30 per thing you do the highest is i think like 
 50. but all in all this game is well worth the 50 bucks, even tho the graphics are not up to par 
 that is not a problem to me. get this game. if you had this game for ps2 and you liked it than 
 you will love it for the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fjackel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm gonna have to disagree with what game spot said in their review out of the 24 hours that 
 I played of the game and the 97.64% that I have currently right now the game has only crashed twice 
 for me and that was in the first 30 minutes of the game for me. Though the graphics aren't the 
 greatest and certainly aren't good but they are fine enough to still enjoy the game, this game 
 is awesome and original. The game is like GTA meets boarding school without the blood. The weapons 
 in the game are awesome and the games environment is nice though pretty small compare to other 
 gta games. The achievements are fun and simple and the games story line is interesting and fun. 
 The characters are great. Making out with the girls and guys are very annoying and to repetitive 
 but only funny the first time at least for the guys. The game is full of tons of collectables from 
 smashing gnomes to collecting cards and rubber bands. All in All this game is great and is a must 
 have. Also the Classes are very fun except for english very annoying and hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyroger78
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  The PlayStation 2 version of Bully was unexpectedly awesome. People expecting Grand Theft Auto: 
 High School were surprised to find out that Rockstar had, in fact, produced a decent (if exaggerated) 
 send-up of boarding school life.
  
  This new version leaves the core game practically unchanged, instead adding several new classes 
 and missions. The end result is nothing short of spectacular, even for a remix.
  
  Gameplay-Everything here is basically the same as the PS2 version. You play as Jimmy Hopkins, a 
 teenage badass in training whose mother and new step-father dump him off at Bullworth Academy while 
 they go on a honeymoon cruise. You're left to fight your way to the top of the school hierarchy 
 by any means necessary.
  
  The control scheme is, at least button-wise, pretty much identical to the PS2. It does seem a bit 
 fuzzier though, making for some slightly frustrating moments trying to talk to a certain person 
 (or give them a wedgie, as the case may be) .
  
  The well-documented glitches are annoying, but certainly not deal breaking. The occasional achievement 
 glitches hammer themselves out with a reboot and if you save often, the occasional freezes won't 
 hurt you too badly. This should be remedied with an upcoming patch.
  
  Rockstar has added quite a bit of content to this edition. There are four new classes (Music, Math, 
 Geography, and Biology) and several new extra missions. Biology and Clint the Townie's missions 
 are the highlights of these new additions. There is also local multiplayer content, but it revolves 
 mostly around the classes and feels tacked on.
  
  The achievement points (1,000 in all) focus solely on the single-player game and are geared more 
 toward compilation as opposed to skill. Expect yourself to be buying a lot of clothes and soda 
 as you move toward 100% completion.
  
  Visuals-Since this is basically the PS2 game in shiny wrapping, the graphics remain largely unchanged. 
 The extra horsepower of the 360 makes it a little more detailed, but it's still nothing spectacular. 
 The town's detail is nice and the character models are decent, but there just isn't enough of them. 
 You see the same people over and over and over again. Bullworth Academy has about twenty-five students 
 and the town might have ten different residents. Once again, it's not a huge deal, but can be a 
 bit disconcerting when you pass someone and two blocks later run into them again.
  
  Sound-The soundtrack to this game is excellent. The score is understated and fits each situation 
 perfectly without being annoying. Each clique has it's own theme that plays whenever you find yourself 
 in a fight with them. The sound effects are spot-on and excellently done. From the slingshot to 
 the firecracker, each weapon has it's own distinct, accurate sound.
  
  Then we have the voice acting. If you're looking for stereotypical teen voices, your wish is granted. 
 The nerds sound nerdy, the jocks sound stupid, and the preppies have exaggerated pseudo-British 
 accents. All the voice acting (save for Zoe, who sounds a bit wooden) is nearly perfect.
  
  Value-There is a ton of stuff to do in this game. You're going to have a tough time getting bored 
 when you have classes to attend, wedgies to give, yards to mow, papers to deliver, windows to break... the 
 list goes on and on. You can finish 100% of the game in 25-30 hours or so. It's actually fun enough 
 to play through a couple times if you so choose.
  
  Bully: Scholarship Edition takes everything the PS2 version got right, the humor, the over-the-top 
 look at boarding school, and the action, and added to it. If you haven't played this game yet, 
 you should definitely give it a shot. And if you have, another run through Bullworth is well worth 
 the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fALConxxii
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Lets start by saying, Bully is a great game. Its humerous storyline and jokes like: "I never said 
 anything about your mom or the farm animals..."
  You gotta love it for that! 
  
  Game Mechanics: The game mechanics is good, but not great. The game has constant framerate dips 
 and uncontrollable movement at times. I still dont get why you need to mash the A button to run. 
 The aiming and weapons work very well, but mostly tou'll be using your fists to knock out retards.
 
  
  Graphics: C'mon now, these graphics are oldschool. And for a last-gen port, this has excellent 
 lip-syncing. Sometimes you can manage to get camera angles outside the map, but this hardly happens.
 
  
  Storyline: This is where the game shines! Another well thought out, clever game will throw great 
 zingers at you. And i've got to admit, this is a story not to miss!
  
  Game Play: Everything from the open world to the school itself is highly detailed. There are missions, 
 yes, but if your stuck, why not run over to the clubhouse and play the neat racing game? Or just 
 wedgie a nerd!
  
  Overall Description: Bully is an excellent open-world/sandbox game with quite a few flaws that 
 could've been fixed, but make the game unique.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDY1118
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Bully was easily one of the most conterversial games on the PS2. It's a shame really, because there 
 are hundreds of Teen rated games that were much more offensive. First of all, this is not a school 
 massacre simulation. The most dangerous weapon you can get shoots potatoes. Ignore the bad press, 
 and just play it. Trust me, you'll love it.
  
  It may remind you of GTA a tiny bit, but really it has its own feel and style. The school really 
 feels alive. Depending on how each faction (Greasers, preppies, jocks, nerds, bullies, and Townies) 
 feels about you, they'll act in different ways. Over the course of the game, things will shift, 
 and you'll discover more and more about the leaders of each group. You'll rarely get bored, because 
 there are plenty of side stories, classes, and errands to keep you busy. The game is often extremely 
 funny, especially one involving a drunken Santa Claus, and another with a drunken English teacher.
 
  
  The multiplayer is slightly amusing, but really its just a bit of an add on to the rich single 
 player. Everything you do results in a new combat move, piece of clothing, or advances a storyline. 
 The satarical look at school groups is great, and rarely feels stretched. The bugs are aggravating, 
 but just save often and keep your patience and it won't be too much of an issue.
  
  Basically, Bully: The Scholarship Edition is a funny and unique game. Some bugs drag down the 360 
 version, unlike its counterpart on the Wii. But trust me, this game will keep you hooked until 
 you've beaten every mission there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I had a great time playing Bully, but it is not a well polished game. I am glad I didn't play the 
 original game because if this is the cleaned up version I doubt that I would have had as much fun.
 
  
  The failing wasn't in the game play, it was in the bugs. There were many times I played for a long 
 while and forgot to save, and then the game would crash causing me to loose some of my progress. 
 It happened frequently enough to become a bit frustrating. I did discover that the more I saved, 
 the less likely the game was to Crash. There was at least one mission that I didn't get to do because 
 it vanished from my list of available tasks, so I will chalk that up to a bug as well.
  
  There are lots of fun things to do in the game. Earning money will let you buy clothes which will 
 let you change the way you look. You can travel around using a Skateboard, Bicycle, Moped (if you 
 win enough tickets at the fair) , and a Go Kart (If you win all the Go Kart Races) . There are a 
 ton of activities you can do to earn money like running errands for students and towns people, 
 you can Mow Lawns in a cool mini-game, Delivering Papers ala a Paper Boy style mini-game.
  
  One of the really interesting things that has been added is the concept of going to class. 
 You don't have to go, but it is to your benefit to do well in class. Most of the classes give you 
 bonuses to your abilities while some just give you new clothes to change your look. If you are 
 on campus and not going to class the TA will try to run you down and "Make" you attend. The nice 
 thing is you can just focus on getting all your classes out of the way getting your bonuses. Then 
 when you are finished you can use all your extra abilities and bonuses to finish the missions and 
 get the achievements.
  
  For XBOX Achievement Whores (Like Me) this game is great, lots of easy to achieve tasks that are 
 clearly defined and for the most part documented in your Stats page so you can see how close you 
 are to completing the Achievement.
  
  The last big issue I had was that Storyline. You spend 3/4 of the game becoming the coolest guy 
 on campus and winning over all the clicks to be on your side making you King of the School. Then 
 you go off and do the next mission and when you come back, suddenly the whole school has turned 
 against you through the meddling of your nemesis Gary (established in the first hour or two of 
 the game) . It's not the plot device that pissed me off, it's the lack of plausible explanation 
 as to how he achieved this? Then there was the lack of closure with your family, at the beginning 
 of the game you get shipped off to this school by your mom and her new Hubby, but at the end of 
 the game there was no closure about that etherjust felt a bit unfinished.
  
  Despite the negative issues I did have a lot of fun playing the game and would recommend it to 
 anyone looking for something fun that's not to heavy and doesn't take itself to seriously.
  
  Bully: Scholarship Edition Scores a 7.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poncho88x
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  bully opens with the same as the PS2 version a couple years ago. The game graphics haveve been 
 updated a lil bit for the 360. But thats the problem this is an obviuos port so unless u build 
 from groud up ur not going ot get all the potential of the 360 or he Wii. Dont get me wrong the 
 game is still fun and just as deep as the original even with more perks. some new added classes 
 and missions but still not worth the 50 bucks for a 3 year old game. Now this is were the game 
 gets bad the game crashes intensely. The graphical glitches add to it NOTE: this is only for the 
 360 version. The Wii has not reports yet, or will ever have any. Rockstar is working to fix this, 
 but who ever tested the game WOW!!!!!! you need new testers these are obviuos problems. If u get 
 passed this there is a prettty good game underneath. So wait for the patch and rent it just for 
 fun you wont regret.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Bully arrived almost two years ago on Sony's PlayStation 2. At that moment we saw Rockstar could 
 make a game that didn't have guns, car driving, or blood. Bully follows the story of Jimmy Hawkins, 
 a teenage boy, left behind at Bullworth Academy as his mother and new step-father drive away for 
 the Honeymoon, which will be a year long. You are now left alone at Bullworth, to make your own 
 path, by fitting into new groups such as the nerds or greasers, go to class, or even get a girlfriend 
 (kissing scenes included.
  
  First off, the game's graphics have been toned up for the Xbox 360 version of Bully: Scholarship 
 Edition. Character's faces appear to have more detail this time around. Even the school and surrounding 
 community has been toned up for Jimmy's Scholarship edition. Note though that the graphics are 
 not something truly amazing. This is not running of what GTA IV is going to run on or even anything 
 impressive we have seen on the Xbox 360. 
  
  The story remains the same, but with some new mini games and a Christmas story that was added into 
 this version of Bully. If you played the game before you are going to remember the story, so it 
 could be boring if you play through again. Even so, the story is a good story that give you a chance 
 to experiment with the different groups and pull pranks on all the other students at Bullworth. 
 You have the chance to attend classes at school, such as Gym, Chemistry, Music, Art, Biology, etc. 
 These classes are simple mini-games that you either pass or fail. Passing classes help you unlock 
 new items and such. Classes are only optional, except when you are caught by a prefect during class 
 hours, which you are then forced to attend class.
  
  For being a game about a school you are allowed to leave the school and walk, ride a bike, or skate 
 board around the surrounding community. Bully is a sand box game which give you more freedom. In 
 the community around Bullworth you can get a haircut to customize Jimmy or buy items for your use. 
 In school and around the community you may get side missions by students to escort them somewhere 
 or put something in a locker for them. All these things could possibly get you into trouble with 
 the authorities if caught,. 
  
  In Bully: Scholarship Edition one of the games new features is the ability to play with a friend. 
 But not how you would want to play it. You can only play games with the friend, which is fun, but 
 not something that would be fun for a long time. It would have been more interesting to see Rockstar 
 allow co-op play for Bully this time around.
  
  In closing, if you were disappointed to see Bully canceled for the Xbox and never got a PS2 to 
 play it now is your chance, with some new content included. If you did play the PS2 version, buying 
 it again probably isn't worth because the new content is not that great. Also, if you don't like 
 bugs Bully: Scholarship Edition is full of them on the Xbox 360. These bugs can cause your game 
 to freeze and even crash. These bugs can cause you to save a lot and when it happens to become 
 frustrated when it does.
  
  I do recommend Bully: Scholarship Edition, but a buyer beware. 
  Note: At the time I reviewed 
 the bugs in the 360 version still had not been fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeydiaz101
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  You can do a lot better than this. 
  
  Bad
   Game tends to freeze from time to time (I had the game freeze twice in about the first 25 mins!)
 
   You can only save in one area (your bed room) which is horrible, you should always be able to 
 save were ever you are 
   Camera angle is literally even with the characters back so there are major "blind spots" you 
 have to HOLD the camera joystick to see over the head and beyond which is annoying, it should stay 
 in place were ever you decide move the camera too
   Missions are very short (for some that is good) but seriously, I think they should of at least 
 tried to make a little challenge in the game
  
  Good
   Original storyline (with your classes and such)
   Fun factions to join which are the bullies, 
 preppies, jocks, and nerds
   Interactions with the characters is also fun and original 
   A lot of the characters in the game have their own identity which is nice
  
  In total I love 
 the game play but it is totally ruined with technical problems I encountered
  
  Final Say
  
  I wouldn't buy it, get something else if your still a little interested you should 
 consider renting 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dippy88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game to come out on Xbox 360 for a while, and when it finally did, i'm 
 not at all disappointed its excatly how I pictured it and more. So much to do also, the missions 
 are really fun, the lessons are really fun appart from maths :D And a geography lessons that involves 
 pointing out the states of america by flag, which is impossible for anyone from outside the US 
 to do which is pretty crap.
  
  I am English so we didn't get **** like preps, and jocks at school like you do in America but i've 
 seen it on films and **** so I understood it. I also liked it that you could go into town and stuff 
 do some really cool things. I didn't expeierence any frame rate issues or bugs and crashes that 
 people are crying about i think people are just over reacting over stuff.
  
  But what I will say about this game is that is it incredibly easy...
  
  Anyway, I suggest you 
 get this game ASAP! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is a port, and what it brings is more of a great game. nothings wrong with that, no one 
 expected any grand changes to the game, whats here is expected, a welcoming port to the 360. The 
 Graphics are usually great, some areas are questionable but do not take anything away from the 
 game at all. If you guys arent familiar with the first edition of the game, you are dropped off 
 at school by your mom that doesnt seem to care about you much. Your immediately approached by Gary, 
 who gives you some of the first missions, from then on you help the nerds beat up the jocks egg 
 the preppys and do other things we all wish we did in highschool. 4 new classes are just as good 
 as the others, and they still benefit you from getting fireworks to other things. You'll constantly 
 get new items to wreak chaos in the school, and its just a really fun game. The new missions are 
 you know, pretty short like the rest of them, but there not bad there pretty decent. And really 
 like others have been saying, if your waiting for GTA4 this is for you, but really its for anyone, 
 and especially for people who like to pull pranks and do things they wish they could do without 
 getting in serious trouble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conny_S
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game. It is very funny, and very creative. Thanks to Rockstar. Their games 
 are very rare and also very good.
  
  People say that this game, for the Xbox 360 is bad because of freezing and other things. I can 
 tell you exactly what the problems are, and to be honest, the "problems" is no problem. Sure, the 
 framerate is not the best in SOME places, for example when you bicycle in the city. I say its not 
 the BEST, but it isnt bad either. And then sometimes the game can freeze. My game has freezed 2 
 times in 20 hours of playtime. And then you have the sound, sometimes the sound, in some houses, 
 can be a little "hacky". But it aint a problem if you see the game in the full way.
  
  Of course it was bad of Rockstar not to fix this, but nothing is perfect, remember that. And you 
 have to see the good. It is better graphics, it is in HDTV, and it is a damn good game. Its a 
 classic, just like many other Rockstar games.
  
  There are small details that makes Rockstars games so good. For example in Bully, you can go to 
 lessons, for example Biology, you cut animals with music in the background. isnt this sweet?
  
  Anyway. Buy the game and play it, this, together with Call of Duty 4 is the best game this 
 year. Hopfully Grand Theft Auto 4 and Mafia 2 will be as good as these.
  
  P. S: Rockstar going to (probebly now their already has) release a patch to fix some issues for 
 those that want it to be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Given the million or so reviews of the Xbox/PS2 versions of Bully, I won't add much more here other 
 than to point out what's new/different in the Xbox 360 edition.
  
  1) Graphics -- It looks like they updated the bitmapped textures on everything in the game world, 
 but the graphics still look quite dated for a "modern" 360 game. People and objects are very chunky 
 in shape to the point that you really don't immediately notice that it IS different than the original 
 previous-generation versions. The graphical glitches are well-publicized: lots of "tearing" and 
 herky-jerky animations, particularly during cut-scenes.
  
  2) Audio -- Straight from the previous editions, which had very corny (but well done) voice work, 
 and a very well done musical score (though the incidental music while you're wandering around gets 
 old quickly) .
  
  3) Gameplay -- It's just like other "sandbox games" (Sims, Grand Theft Auto) , so if you like those, 
 you should like what this game has to offer. If you DON'T like those style of games, run: There 
 are some new missions strewn in here, but nothing that breaks what can be very repetitive gameplay. 
 
  
  Overall, it's a disappointing and very direct-port-looking/feeling game. It's not a great surprise 
 the game is already selling for $40 on Amazon. I think we all expected a little more of a workover 
 of this release. Still, it's probably worth picking up when it hits the $30 price point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -great value, tons of different stuff to do, will keep you busy for awhile
  -very funny game with lots of interactive characters
  -achievements are great, forces the player 
 to experience the entire game
  -tons of different custiomization from clothing to weapons.
  
  Cons:
  -graphics are very sub par compared to most competition out there
  -there are a 
 good number of glitches/bugs in this game that should not have made it into the final release
 
  -the game is quite easy, there was virtually no points in this game that game me any trouble.
 
  
  Overall Bully is a really fun game for the casual gamer. This is by no means a "hardcore" game. 
 It is basically a cheap knockoff of GTA which im sure is rockstars intention for this title. For 
 those out there that are waiting for GTA IV to be released at the end of april, this is a great 
 game to "wet your whistle" before the real deal comes out. The graphics arent great and there are 
 a number of glitches throughout the game, but the overall gameplay and interactive environment 
 make this game a really fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HighNMitey
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Bully Scholarship Edition is an awesome game throughout the game you gain status with the different 
 cliques as any school has including the Jocks, Preps and nerds etc. As you continue through the 
 game you gain notoriety as you gain control over the school. Another fantastic aspect of this game 
 is that despite the violence and crude language we love from GTA and Saints Row, in Bully Scholarship 
 Addition you actually learn in "classes" you must attend including, geography, biology, math , 
 english and chemistry. Another perk is that throughout the game there are many classic mini-games 
 to enjoy. However, the school is tough though; around almost every corner is a bully waiting to 
 attack so their are continuous fights, which are fun in themselves. Overall, it is a fun game with 
 a great story line that definitely can be addicting. 
  Sarah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on wednesday, and just beat it yesterday. Game was real short, had a couple 
 of freezes every now and then (but some peoples copies froze constantly) graphics are ok, the town 
 wasnt really even too big, the texture would have to load up when you get to certain area's or 
 after you leave some of the unlockable safehouses, and none of the missions really gave me any 
 trouble at all, if any. iI always wanted to try this out, but the game had came out after my PS2 
 broke then the Xbox version was cancelled, so i decided to buy it to see how it was (herd alot 
 of great things about the game) but it was just plain too short and i did all of the side missions 
 and got all but 4 achievements (one of which glitched on me, yet somehow i still got the achievement 
 completing all mission.) It's just worth a rental. The main character is pretty much what you'd 
 expect, espically if you go by the name of the game, The game should have been $39.99 or $29.99 
 then I would say its worth it, but $49.99 is just too much for this game. You'd be better of buying 
 something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Having played and enjoyed the PS2 version, I was looking forward to this with enhanced graphics. 
 Well, we get a lot more than that, we get: frame rate problems, long load times, bugs and collision 
 detection problems and fatal game crashes.
  
  Honestly, nothing is more annoying than to waste 20 - 40 mins only to have the game crash and need 
 to have a restart.
  
  The core game is as good as always. Lots of mini games, exploration and a decent story. However, there's 
 no excuse for the game glitches.
  
  Wait for the patch to be released, then rent it just to make sure the bugs have been exterminated.
 
  
  The graphics look somewhat better, but nothing next gen. The music is the same as the PS2 version. 
 All the mini games make the game more enjoyable and the fighting controls well.
  
  As it is, if this game worked like it was supposed to, it would be a great game, but what's the point 
 in playing when you know it's going to crash at any time? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games has always been known for their innovative take on gaming, I mean look at the Grand 
 Theft Auto series. No one has been able to truly pull of a game like they have. Bully is another 
 game in that same genre; you can even tell that there are a lot of GTA influences in the game. 
 I went into Bully not knowing a lot about the game, but my buddy has been playing it for a while, 
 so I decided to try it. 
  I love the approach that Rockstar take in their games, in Bully Jimmy Hopkins is just dumped off 
 at this really awful school, and left to fend for himself. You hookup with this real jerk and he 
 takes you around and show you the school. You get to meet the different factions in the game, and 
 the monitors that you need to stay away from. You need to take classes, and do little goals in 
 the game to build up your bully rep. 
  Graphics in the game is on par with GTA 3, nothing too fancy but seems to work well in the game. 
 The controls are a bit glitchy very similar to what GTA series has always had problems with. 
 
  I do like the game a lot, though I wished I had more time between classes, because there is very 
 little time to do the mayhem you need to do in the game. I also not a huge fan of the assignment 
 that you are made to do while you are in class, but who like class work I guess. This is a very 
 cool, pretty innovative approach to a great idea. Rockstar London did a great job with this one.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HymnsomniaK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  If you want to know how a beta tester feels look no further. Bully for the X360 has enough bugs 
 to make anyone who pays for it know just what these guys do for a living. Not that any have played 
 this game though. I assume that the responsible party for this tragedy is Mad Doc Software since 
 they did not work on the original game , and it shows from the moment you see this game's frame 
 rate issues. And it doesn't stop there. Mainly everything you do does not work as in the original 
 , there's a constant feeling that whoever worked on this did not know what they were doing. The 
 engine has not been properly ported and I do wonder why it has been released like this. 
  And now for he good. As badly ported as it is this is still a great game. You can still have plenty 
 of fun with Bully and the better graphics are more than welcome. Frame rate issues are annoying 
 but the game is smoother than on the PS2 , it's a mystery that a game that does not look Next-Gen 
 manages to struggle on the X360. I hope that I never hear from Mad Doc Software again because they 
 ruined what could have been the perfect Bully experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  If your the type to expect this game to be exactly like GTA and you can't understand or imagine 
 that the life of a 15 yr old boy at a boarding school can be quite enjoyable and out right funny, 
 than please don't read anymore of this so that I don't waste your time. 
  
  The truth of the matter is this game is pack with things to do, just like in GTA you will easily 
 get side tracked from any hopes of graduating from Bullworth Academy. This game has 3 to 4 times 
 the amount of mini games that San Andreas had. The main mini games are the school or classwork 
 that Jimmy needs to do, and the English Class is probably the hardest one to pass, it will have 
 you REALLY doing homework! Others like PE, Music, Chemistry, Biology, Math, Photography, Art, Shop 
 etc.... (you get the idea.. I believe there are a few more I didn't mention) . 
  
  Jimmy also has a arsenal of pranks, jokes, weapons, ideas, dates (girls) , fights and other activities 
 to get into, not to mention all while avoiding detention , visiting the principle or getting beat 
 up by other students and faculty members. The missions never seem to stop coming as soon as you 
 complete one..... two or three new ones appear!
  
  Jimmy is not restricted to only the boarding school but he has a whole town of citizens to terrorizes 
 too. This town includes a "REAL" functional carnival with all the things do you would expect while 
 visiting (NO JOKE!) . The carnival is not the only thing to do you have Boxing Gym, markets, movies, 
 clothes stores, barber shops and many other things as well to waste your time on! If you ever tried 
 to explain all of the things you liked about GTA series to your friend, but you felt like you couldn't 
 say everything you wanted to say ..... the same applies with Bully! 
  
  This game has way too many things to distract you from completing this game... but I'm sure there 
 are many people that only stick to the missions and never explore, if that's the case don't insult 
 ROCKSTAR by buying this game and not seeing the cleverness they always seem to deliver!!
  
  
  Rockstar is the KING of innovation! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbcben
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Take a great game, add minimal new content, double the loading time and you have Bully: Scholarship 
 Edition for the Xbox 360. After playing the game on PS2, the 360 version is nothing more then a 
 director's cut of the original with very little graphical improvement. The sound quality sucks. 
 Surround sound is achieved through the same trickery that was used when they started converting 
 CDs to SACDs. The games frame rate suffers and at times the game flickers and stutters. It reminded 
 me of slowdown in old NES games. I never reached any new content and after suffering through the 
 load time needed to show the game's opening and what was needed to load the engine I did not get 
 past the second mission. If you have the PS2 version don't bother. If you have a 360 and don't 
 have a PS2, get this game, especially if you're a GTA fan. The game uses the same engine as GTA: 
 Vice City, minus the motor vehicles of course. I'd like to see what the Wii version has to offer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this game is pretty fun and has a lot of things in it to keep you entertained for hours. 
 I like the interactions that occur with the main character and those he deals with. The dialogue 
 is funny and well orchestrated. The missions are interesting and give you a pretty good challenge. 
 The only drawback I have noticed, is the game seems a little sluggish at times. You can see the 
 framerates drop especially when you're running around outside on the Bullworth campus. The artificial 
 intelligence is somewhat average. The gameplay offers plenty to do, wide-open maps allow you to 
 explore many areas around the campus and find useful items to add to your ever increasing inventory. 
 In some respects there are similarities to the character in Dead Rising "Frank West" You go around 
 collecting items and picking up power ups, as well as having almost anything thats not nailed to 
 the ground to be used for a weapon. Of course you have a certain amount of cash to spend initially. 
 Bully is a good game, not a great game. It's worth renting first, for those of you who haven't 
 played Bully already. That's my humble opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  From the very beginning cut scenes you will notice terrible frame rate issues. I hoped that after 
 the cutscene was over the frame rate problem would go away. Well it does a bit but not enough for 
 me not to notice. Why is there a frame rate issue on a game ported from the original Xbox? The 
 camera is extremely annoying too. So many times the camera will just flip around and you wont know 
 what direction your pointing in. The game also randomly froze for no reason and I lost all my progress. 
 And its not my console because I played Bioshock for 3 hrs straight with no problems.
  
  Graphics 
  Since this was a port I knew the graphics werent going to be anything special. They 
 did a decent job upgrading the graphics a bit which is nice.
  
  Sound
  Some of the acting is pretty shotty but all in all the sound is pretty good.
  
  Overall
  
 With the weird player movements, shotty camera, and frame rate issues I would have to give this 
 game a 7/10. Its not a terrible game at all. Its just not what I was hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I really could go on about Bully for quite a while, but I'll make it short. If you like open ended 
 game, and oddly compelling storylines. Look no further than Bully. Especially if you want to relive 
 some moments you may have had when you went to school.
  
  SO you play as Jimmy Hopkins. He's niether a complete moron or a nice guy. He's very neutral, so don't 
 let that crew cut and mean tough guy look make you think different. Throughout the game he will 
 raid the girls dorm, go to class, sneak into the staff room do work for a pervy gym teacher and soo 
 much more. And he may not look like much of a ladies man but if you work at it he will have girls 
 chasing him down like a lion chases it's dinner.
  
  The whole concept of the game is Jimmy Hopkins gets sent to a private school called Bullworth for 
 a year while his parents go on a honeymoon for... A year. Umm yeah. Anyways, throughout this year 
 you will meet some nerds, jocks, greasers and preps. And there all fun students to interact with, and 
 to talk to. The story is amazing, you will really get into it two hours in. And there others besides 
 students. There is a creepy bum that lives behind an old bus at the school, and the teachers of course. AND 
 there are residents outside the school that you can perform tasks for (yes that means you can leave 
 school grounds and travel to the town the schools in) .
  
  Bully also is a very good looking game. Looks twice as good as the already great looking PS2 version. The 
 visuals aren't Gears of War quality but there really nice and the game runs smooth from what I 
 have seen. Very smooth. There are a lot of nice details that you wouldn't see in the PS2 version.
 
  
  And there is also more content. There are around eight new missions. And four new classes. There is 
 also a neat Multiplayer mode that will test how smart you are in the classes mini games. It's decent 
 at best.
  
  Classes are important in Bully, a lot of people MAY play hookie and go to town all day, but really 
 the classes are fun and you will learn special abilities if you do well enough that you can't learn 
 any other way.
  
  Overall, Bully is a great package. It has most of everything you could want from a game. Fun gameplay, compelling 
 story, neat characters, good sound and pretty visuals. Also enough to keep you coming back for more, and 
 wanting more. Add Bully to your collection as fast as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game 2 years back for PS2 and thought it was good but now that it is redone for 360 
 it feels complete! I love Rockstars games- Manhunt, Manhunt 2, GTA 3-SA, Bully, The Warriors, and 
 Red Dead Revolver. All of their games are great but this BULLY SE really is one of their best games. 
 The graphics are good, gameplay is amazing, and the way it is crafted is awesome. For a game with 
 no blood it sure is one of the best games that is rated T I have ever played. I hope to see more 
 out of this series because this game really makes it shine. This is the perfect game before GTA 
 IV. Give this game a try if you want so good fun, it could be a revalutionary game if they make 
 the 2nd a college. Any Rockstar fan should give this game a try just because it is a wonderful 
 game that was made by a great company. So go buy this game if you want a great 360 game that has 
 a good story. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
