-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bullet Witch
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/bulletwitch/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Insanely powerful spells are a lot of fun to use.
 Fantastically destructible environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short game with little replay value.
 Dull gunfights with lame weapons.
 Mediocre graphics.
 Awkward controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 64 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 1,117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Cavia Inc.
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Feb 27, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The few moments when Bullet Witch shines are impressive, but not nearly enough to elevate the rest 
 of the game above the dismal plane of mediocrity. 

  She has the raven hair and ruby lips, and sparks  do  fly from her fingertips, but this witchy 
 woman isn't wicked in the least. In fact, she's pretty lifeless, and so is her game, Bullet Witch. 
 This third-person shooter developed by Cavia and published by Atari wastes the promise of a gun-toting, 
 zombie-blasting witch on a brief and banal game. But even more disappointing than the wasted potential 
 of the premise is the fact that Bullet Witch is peppered with some great moments that you'll want 
 to experience again and again. A couple of the spells are truly awesome to witness, as is the complete 
 destruction of the world around you, but these moments are too short lived to carry the rest of 
 the game.  

          Get used to this guy -- you'll see his ugly face a lot in this game.     

  The game takes 
 place in the year 2013 after war, disease, and a couple of natural disasters have killed billions. 
 To top it all off, an interdimensional portal has opened up, unleashing masses of homicidal demons 
 upon the remnants of the world, or, at least the East Coast of the United States. You play as a 
 witch named Alicia. She's not quite human and not quite a demon, but she uses her magic powers 
 and her massive gunrod to fight the demons and save what's left of humankind.  

  As Alicia, you have to eliminate hundreds of identical demons throughout six different stages. 
 You start in a suburb, work your way through a city, head out into a forest, and end up back in 
 the city. There's not much diversity to the stages, and each one is very linear, with strategically 
 placed barriers to keep you on track. In most stages you run into a mob of enemies, kill it, and 
 then run a short distance down the path and do the same thing again. The combat is very dull, because 
 you'll face the same idiotic demons throughout the game in a series of bland settings.  

  The shooting is all done with Alicia's cumbersome and impractical gunrod. It's a huge hunk of garishly 
 decorated metal as long as Alicia is tall. The basic function of the gunrod is similar to an assault 
 rifle, but you can spend skill points that you earn for completing each level to unlock new gunrod 
 forms. There are only four forms, though, and none of them are any more useful than the default 
 form. Even the cannon form, which is supposed to behave like a sniper rifle, doesn't have any greater 
 range than the basic assault-rifle form. Reloading your weapon costs magic points, but your magic 
 points regenerate so quickly you'll essentially have unlimited ammunition for most of your gunrod 
 forms.  

  The gunplay is hampered by some terrible artificial intelligence. The enemy AI is bad, but you'll 
 occasionally have allies on your team who are somehow even dumber. Allies will often run up and 
 stand right in front of you in the middle of a gunfight, which doesn't matter for the most part 
 because you can shoot right through them, but they still obstruct your view. Fortunately, your 
 allies will often get stuck behind walls or other objects, so you won't have to worry about them 
 tagging along and getting in your way for very long. The enemies' AI is slightly better, in that 
 you will actually see enemies run for cover every once in awhile. Usually, though, they just stand 
 in one place waiting for you to mow them down.  

  To supplement the weak gunplay, Alicia can also wield magic spells. There are nine different spells, 
 several of which you can upgrade by spending skill points. Unfortunately, only about four of the 
 spells are ever worth using. It doesn't help that casting spells requires you to cycle through 
 an awkward spell wheel and then press a corresponding button. So to cast a lightning spell, you 
 have to press the right or left bumper three times, then press the A button, and then find a target 
 and press the right trigger to finally cast the spell.  

  Casting spells is a hassle, but there are a couple of spells in the game that are definitely worth 
 the trouble. One of the first spells unlocked is the will power spell, which lets you use telekinesis 
 to pitch cars, boulders, trees, and even massive water tanks at your enemies. It's odd, though, 
 that while you can send a bus skipping down a city street, your enemies are completely immune to 
 your will power spell. That means that you can't chuck foes into walls or off bridges, which is 
 disappointing. The two best magic spells in the game are the tornado and the meteor spells. You 
 don't unlock these until late in the game, and they require a full magic gauge to cast, but when 
 you finally get one of these spells off, the resulting carnage is well worth the wait. These spells 
 conjure up massive cataclysms that tear the world around you to pieces. Huge meteors fall from 
 the sky and crush enemies and collapse skyscrapers. A tornado tears the roof off of a building 
 and drops it on a group of unsuspecting enemies. These moments are truly impressive and extremely 
 gratifying. The problem is that you can only use these spells in a few certain areas, and the spells' 
 effects only last for about 30 seconds at a time.  

  Aside from a couple of great spells and some impressive explosions, Bullet Witch doesn't look good. 
 When you conjure up some of the more spectacular-looking spells, the frame rate drops drastically. 
 There are also some technical issues with the short draw distance. When you're running around the 
 environment, you'll see trees, cars, and often entire buildings suddenly pop into view from out 
 of nowhere. All of the destruction onscreen also surfaces some odd behavior from the physics engine. 
 Twitching, floating, clipping, and oddly bouncing objects are commonplace, which makes for some 
 very unusual sights. The textures are bland and flat, there are only a handful of character models 
 in the entire game, and the lighting effects result in a lot of flickering and horribly pixelated 
 shadows. The sound in the game isn't much better than the presentation, either. The voice acting 
 in the cutscenes is horrendous and isn't done any favors by the awful dialogue. The game does have 
 some good music, which isn't especially memorable but fits the theme well.  

          This is Maxwell Cougar, his five-o'clock shadow shows he means business.     

  You 
 can play through Bullet Witch in about six hours on your first play-through, and after that there 
 isn't much reason to go through the game again. You can continue playing to earn more skill points 
 and power up your gunrod and spells, but there isn't much point in doing that if you've already 
 beat the game. There are multiple difficulty settings, so you can go back for more of a challenge, 
 and you will earn achievement points for finishing each level and for beating the game on all of 
 the different difficulty settings. There's also an online leaderboard that lets you compare your 
 scores to the scores of other people around the world, but that's not much of a consolation for 
 the short single-player and complete lack of multiplayer.  

  Bullet Witch shows promise, but it ultimately fails to deliver anything more than a ho-hum third-person 
 shooter that you'll forget as soon as you finish playing it. There are some fantastic moments in 
 here that you should experience, but there's no way to justify the price of this game for just 
 a few minutes of worthwhile gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (97 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Quinzark
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Some bits of this game, the visuals for example, are good. Overall though it seems like it needed 
 a little more time in development. The controls take quite a bit of getting used to & the general 
 game play tends to become frustrating at times. 
  The magic in the game is impressive & some spells actually deal noticeable damage to the surrounding 
 area. Something most games ignore completely to my frustration. 
  It was generous of the makers to include free DCL in the form of various costume changes but that 
 wasn't quite enough to make me keep playing & after a few hours i couldn't face playing anymore. 
 
  If i ever find myself having an Xbox gamer-point competition with some one i may finish this game, 
 if not i can't see anything making me want to play it again.
  My flatmate did pass it however. Which is how i know the dialogue is so cheesy it's actually hilarious. 
 
  
  
  It could have been a great game. ... could have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played bullet witch I gave it a 9, the second time I played it (obviously some 
 time later) I have given it an 8. With added character costumes which made playing it again a nice 
 fresh feel. The game itself is flawed by its slightly under-par graphics which are still awesome 
 and its habit of killing brains to unlock walls, which isn't that bad when you mention the vast 
 amount of spells to devestate your foes with and the fact that downloadable content on Xbox Live 
 will give you access to more spells and I think some extra levels at a mere 30 gamer points for 
 each download, and there are quite a few there. I really liked the game in its reason of just being 
 a great game that appeals to some and others will bash, but i think the bashing is mainly due to 
 people playing other zombie games with high ratings and then feeling that this doesn't live up 
 to. If you haven't got one of those games, i. e Fallout 3, left for dead, dead rising, etc then 
 Bullet Witch will fill that appetite for zombie death and carnage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob_dAmAgE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  Bullet Witch is a really fun game that has been critically panned & spat on by gamers. Although 
 Bullet Witch brings nothing new to the table in gameplay, it does exceed in both story, style, 
 and mindless fun! Know what you are buying into when purchasing a game like this- this is from 
 a smaller indie developer, so don't expect Gears of War graphics, neither should one expect a story 
 of Bioshock caliber. This is a shooter through and through similar to Gungrave/Gungrave Overdose- 
 end of story.
  
  plusses & minuses in no particular order:
  on the plus:
  1. hilarious dialog.
  2. alicia is one hell of a cool character
  3. amazing magic powers! meteor 
 shower anyone??
  4. great weapons
  5. decent story
  6. tons of downloadable content
  7. some really great set pieces
  8. beautiful cut scenes
  
  on the minus:
  1. terrible 
 a. i.
  2. hilarious dialog.
  3. directional confusion- map or marker wou have been a nice addition.
  
  straight up- this 
 is what cult-classics are made of! (most hate it, some love it with a vengence) . Bullet Witch is 
 the equivalent of a B-movie, on par with games like Bloodrayne, MDK, and most of all Gungrave!! 
 Game is worth (at most) $25.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom_yean
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 7:25 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 6/10
  If your a person that goes for games that are "whoa look at the graphics!", then Bullet Witch may 
 not be your cup of tea. It may be slightly better then a game running on the older Xbox. Lightning 
 and contrast in this game are rather well done, but characters in Bullet Witch may look dull at 
 times.
  
  Gameplay - 5/10
  Just your average 3rd person shooter with some cool ideas. In Bullet Witch you are able to cast 
 magic and deal massive destructions, which are flashy and cool to watch, but gameplay gets repitative 
 after 2 hours into the game. 
  
  Sound - 8/10
  Bullet Witch has some amazing sound effects and soundtracks, from the voice overs (Alicia has a 
 sexy voice) to the sounds effets of gun shots. The enemies you might encounter throughout the game 
 has some unique lines too, likePlease... I still have a family to feed!" , before you blow him 
 into pieces.
  
  Overall Bullet Witch is quite an unique game that needs more effort and work on it. Hopefully it 
 won't dissapoint us gamers if there's a sequel coming out, errrr.. i mean if there's one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  First of all i did not buy this game for the retail price and i do not condone anyone buying this 
 game for that of anything above 15... and thats even pushing the boundry there.
  
  
  Story:
  
  In 2013, a young woman named Alicia enters an unnamed coastal eastern United States 
 city, carrying a magical weapon shaped like a broomstick that can change weapon form as well as 
 allow her to cast magic spells. A voice called the Darkness speaks to her, telling her that the 
 city is doomed, but she strives on to save the humans from the Geist forces. She manages to make 
 her way to a commander of the last of the human armed forces, who requests that she offer her powers 
 to help save mankind. Alicia and the troops flee underground when one of the greater demons, Omega, 
 appears and cannot be harmed by bullets or magic. When they make it back to their underground base, 
 he gives her part of a journal, written by an archaeologist that appears to have lost a loved one 
 in a plane crash in 2006, and traveled to a remote village to perform a sacrifice to return that 
 person to life. From this, the humans have determined the cause of the demon infestations, as the 
 archaeologists' self-sacrifice opened up the gateway for the demons. Alicia and the human troops 
 take a cargo plane to the humans' base near this village, though the plane is attacked midflight 
 by a huge flying demon that Alicia is able to stop, but not before it damages the plane's engines 
 and they are forced to land a short distance from the headquarters.
  
  After rescuing the surviving humans to headquarters and defending the base from Geist attacks from 
 the air, Alicia is flown to the closest safe drop point near the village. She works her way through 
 the heavily-defended area, finding the altar that lead the archaeologist to this point and finally, 
 the man himself, still alive but impaled on the opening of the demonic gateway. He possesses the 
 other half of the journal, which reveals that Alicia is his daughter, that she did die in the plane 
 crash and was brought back from the grave by his sacrifice but that this gave her the magical powers 
 she possesses, and that the only way to close the gateway is to kill him completely. After stating 
 her love for her father, she kills him.
  
  While the gateway is closed, the demons are still in control of the world, and with the human troops, 
 Alicia returns to the city to face Omega, this time armed with knowledge that she needs both her 
 magic and the support of the human troops to break Omega's shield and destroy him. After a prolonged 
 battle, they finally manage to defeat Omega, freeing one city from the demons' run, but there's 
 still many other demons that remain in the world.
  
  Now the story is extremely short i have to say, when i had completed the game the Jaw Dropped in 
 pretty much disbelief. Also if the game was far better structered and paced alittle better it wouldnt 
 of bothered me ( something like COD 4 )
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game is played as a third-person shooter, with you in control of the main character Alicia 
 The game is played as a third-person shooter, with the player in control of Alicia and the camera 
 nearly always over her right shoulder. Health and mana are constantly regenerating, though by taking 
 hits and casting spells respectively, the maximum levels these will regenerate to is reduced; the 
 maximum level for health will slowly return to maximum, while the maximum mana level must be gained 
 by defeating foes.
  
  After the completion of each level, the player is rated in number of kills, the number of times 
 they had to restart from a checkpoint, and the time it took to complete the level. Better rankings 
 lead to more skill points to be spent in unlocking spells and weapon forms and upgrading the same 
 as well as health and mana regeneration rates between levels. These upgrades are carried over through 
 any game mode played, thus allowing the player to build up Alicia's powers on low difficulty levels 
 as to prepare for the higher difficulty level games.
  
  Alicia's magic gun has four different modes. The machine gun is the default mode available at the 
 start, and the player can use skill points to unlock the shotgun, cannon, and gatling gun modes. 
 Alicia uses magically created ammo for each of the weapons forms, and thus only needs to have some 
 mana available in order to reload the gun.
  
  The player has access to 9 different spells arranged in three levels through a quick-access menu. 
 Three of the spells must be unlocked by the player using skill points. The three most powerful 
 spells, Lightning, Tornado, and Meteor, are unlocked through the progression of the game; these 
 spells are also the only ones not upgradable through the skill point system.
  
  For the most part i found the Gamneplay quite enjoyable i have to say, of course it has it problems 
 with making some part more easy or more complicated and nessicary E. G. to use spells you need to 
 bring up the menu then scroll to the type of magic, then scroll again to the spell you want, then 
 wait, then it happens...
  
  Controls:
  
  Short and sweet..
  
  The controls were pretty simple to learn and pretty effective with the shooting and magic done 
 with the back buttons on the 360 controller. Although i have no idea why the A button was used 
 as a melee attack and the left trigger was used to jump, wouldn't it make far more sense to use 
 it the other wa around???
  
  Glitches:
  
  This really doesnt need it's own segmant becuase it you own or have bought this game and actually 
 played it, you'll see that its really not finished.
  
  Here is a list of Glitches or problems i encountered while playing the game:
  
  1. Extremely 
 bad A. I. 99% of the time ( including friendly)
  
  2. Alot of the simple spells within the game are pointless
  
  3. Graphically it looks like 
 it was a straight port from a PS2 game
  
  4. You can walk through alot of objest around the game ( Tables, chairs, Small Cars)
  
  5. 
 Very little replay value
  
  
  Conclution:
  
  To conclude this game for some reason or another was clearly released buy Atari NOT FINISHED and 
 still containing bugs and glitches, but hey!, thats Stari for you just look at Alone in the Dark.
 
  
  Now i know ive been ranting on this game quite abit, however there is some sort of enjoyment to 
 be found with the boss battles and upgrading the spells and weapons (even if not used xD ) so id 
 give this ago if you see it in a bundle like the one i got.
  5 Games for 25.
  
  The Good:
  
  Boss battles are well thought out
  Some powerful spells are fun to use
  
 
  The Bad: 
  
  Graphically not great 
  only about 6 hours or so of content 
  little replay value
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Crappy A. I
  Mostly useless spells
  Glitches Galore 
 
  EASY
  
  Fun Fact:
  
  The women that voices Alicia in Bullet Witch also voices ASH from pokemon in season 8 and onwards... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly good despite all that was said about it. It was given mixed reviews from 
 all sorts of different game reviewers but it seemed though that it was not given the credit it 
 deserves for trying something a bit different from your basic shooter. 
  
  Story: Bullet Witch is set in the year 2013 and its about a young witch named Alicia with powerful 
 demonic powers. She mysteriously appears in the coastal eastern part United States in a chaotic 
 world full of demons with a secret unknown mission that is revealed throughout the story. Alicia 
 accompanied by a powerful wise demon called the Darkness, lurking in her conscious guides her along 
 as she completes her true mission and save the world from the demons which possess it.
  
  Gameplay: This being a third person shooter, would you expect anything else but alot of shooting? 
 Alicia equipped with a weapon called the Gunrod that is in the shape of an broom gives her many 
 abilities and powerful spells. The gun comes in 4 different forms, the first is the default gun, 
 the others you must unlock through skill points upon beating a level. These guns consist of a machine 
 gun, shot gun, rifle gun, and a gatling gun. They may change the gameplay up here and there but 
 you most likely will stick with the basic machine gun. The aiming of the gun can be hard and almost 
 at times unreliable but luckily you will be able to zoom in for more precise shooting. Of course 
 Alicia isnt just equipped with guns, she also has her magic which sets this game apart from your 
 basic shooter games. As you beat levels you will be able to trade in skill points as i mention 
 earlier to unlock or upgrade abilities. These such abilities can consist of summoning ravens to 
 aid you in battle, pushing objects with you telekinetic force ability, creating walls with alchemy, 
 striking down foes with lightning or even creating a huge hurricane to swallow up those that stand 
 in your way. 
  These attacks will greatly aid you throughout your adventure, some costing more mp than others 
 to cast. 
  
  A few downsides i found with this game is that you arent able to upgrade or unlock everything with 
 just one playthrough of this short game. you would have to play it again to get everything, but 
 at that. it may not seem worth it considering this game has low replay value. AI in Bullet Witch 
 is nothing short of disappointing at times, you may be right in front of a demon and they might 
 not even see you. That and your own allies arent much of help if they are too busy running into 
 walls. The control layout may also be a bit confusing at first but you will get use to it over 
 time.
  
  Graphics: the art style in this games isnt the best and may not be able to compare to some of the 
 titles out now but it is far from being considered bad by me. The CG cutscenes in the game look 
 really good but there arent many of them sadly enough. The ingame graphics arent bad either, you 
 find the backround at times to look bland but the characters such as Alicia look well put together, 
 but not so much non important figures like the basic demons which you will be seeing alot of over 
 the time period of you playing the game. The landscape as a whole looks nice too and youll feel 
 it blends pretty well with the dark theme of the game.
  
  Sound: the music in the game is very well done, as you blast your way through levels you will see 
 that music was suited well with the game. Sound effects are spot on too from what i can tell, no 
 major problems here. Though the music and sound effects were good i can not say the same for the 
 voice acting, particularly in cutscenes. When other people talk besides Alicia and the Darkness 
 they sound quite horrible and at times almost feels as if they dont match their voice. This and 
 some of the bad dialogue doesnt exactly help either.
  
  Value: as i have said earlier in this review, the replay value in this game isnt very good. You 
 will enjoy playing through the game the first time and uncovering the secrets everything beholds, 
 but after that, you wont have much of a reason to play through the game again.
  
  Overall i got to say i rather enjoyed myself playing this game, It had a unique distinction about 
 it that other shooters dont have, the main character, Alicia is very likable and fun to play as. 
 The action can be very fast paced at times and it keeps the player up in his/her seat. Despite 
 all the bad reviews and publicity it has gotten in the past, i still cannot help but recommend 
 this game to anyone looking for an action shooter to add to their collection. If the game wasnt 
 worth the price back then, it should be worth it now since it is much cheaper then when it first 
 came out. Even if you dont want to buy it, it is always worth a rent. Its a great game that was 
 highly unappreciated by almost everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mofo9151
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I turned on the game and the game preview comes up. And first thing I thought was 'I hope 
 this preview was made before completion of game' because the graphic was horrible!! I mean it looked 
 like I was playing takken 3 on PS1. But hey, maybe the story plot is amazing and mechanics and 
 controls would be awesome like DMC series but neither was the case. Here's the plot: Earth with 
 zombies. Woman with guns and magics. Blow up things. there are not much time-progrssing upgrades 
 and levels and poor camera view and limited actions. Poor camera view lets a zombie shoot half 
 of my HP before I can turn around. This could be good or bad for some people, but there aren't 
 much unlockables either. Unfortunately, I guess we are just running out of materials for the games. 
 So if you are raising gamer score, hey congrats, here's the bullet **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gobbomob
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are good, though it's still medium-low for XBOX 360 standards. However, when I compare 
 it between a CRT and LCD screen via VGA cable in high resolution. The game actually doesn't look 
 bad as it seems on a CRT, you would probably think the game is made for the CRT. Except, I don't 
 have super bright CRT monitor so it made the game look darker than usual. (Played this game on 
 a 19" CRT monitor & 17" LCD monitor for comparision, but mainly played this a 32" LCD TV) .
  
  The overall gameplay controls may need time to get used to for some people if they're not used 
 to playing genres like FPS or TPS, sometimes relying on the right analog stick to manually aim 
 your weapons while controlling your character the left stick. Personally, I prefer lock-on targeting 
 & manual targeting togther in one game.
  
  The first time you play this game may seem a bit tough with only the default weapon, magic etc. 
 But it gets easier and appealing as you level up and gain more weapons. Some uses of magic may 
 look great & useful. But with some magics in terms of power may not seem effective as it seems, 
 it really deserves more.
  
  Though it leaves a lot more to be desired, overall this game okay.
  
  (Played the Japanese 
 Version) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsujido
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Picked this up when it first came out based on he cover art, and the description on the back. Got 
 home and loaded it up on normal difficulty. The opening cinematic looked really nice, and had all 
 the setup of a multiple day hardcore gaming session. Unfortunately as soon as the actual gameplay 
 began, I really couldn't believe how horrible the graphics were for a "next-gen" title. I mean 
 they are extremely bad. In addition, the controls are cumbersome- The combat and aiming system 
 are difficult to get used to, and the melee function usually puts you in front of your target with 
 them shooting you in the back. The spells are a pain to set up, and are only effective in some 
 situations. I think the most annoying thing about this is; if you use up your magic, and need to 
 use another spell right away, you can't... You have to get out of harms way if possible, and find 
 some enemies to kill in order to replenish your magic. You can upgrade your magic regeneration, 
 but this situation still happens with full upgrades. The three redeeming qualities of this title 
 are the physics: Everything blows up really nicely, the achievements are relatively easy to come 
 by, and Alicia has a nice backside. Bottom line- Rent it unless you're filthy rich. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Nice things:
  
   fun physics, which not only look good, but give you the option to use objects to destroy enemies 
 or bring down buildings on them
  
   good mix of guns, and magic... and since ammo is just your rechargeable magic, you never need 
 to look around for bullets off things
  
   mostly great graphics (although sometimes the graphics get too blurry and foggy in a couple levels)
 
  
   the upgradeable magic and weapons make playing harder difficulties fun and useful to try out
 
  
   free costumes you can download and play the game with
  
  Some things that this game could have done better
   more length, you can finish this game in 
 less than 4 hrs on most difficulties, and on Hell, maybe 5-6 hrs at most
  
   terrible allied AI, its so bad, that your allies will just stand there facing you instead of 
 trying to kill the enemies
  
   cheap deaths... there are about two kinds of cheap deaths in this game, snipers and random physics 
 glitches that can kill you, when they really shouldn't.... this isn't a major problem though, since 
 there are mostly frequent checkpoints
  
   storyline is sorta retarded
  
  -------
  
  With this games bad reviews, this is why you should try games for yourself. The good in this 
 game outweighs the bad. I had fun playing this game and unlocking the achievements, which can't 
 be said about most 360 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  About the game:
  Well you play as Alicia a witch, you are trying to save the world by using your broom like gun. 
 You also able to hear a demon voice guiding you and giving you magic a long the way and You fight 
 demons soldiers, while some have brains floating in mid-air. The Army also helping you through 
 your journey helping fight off the demons and turn back our to normal.
  
  Graphics/Music:
  The graphic is average it more like an regular last-gen console. The graphics 
 isn't that really sharp or clear but still pretty good. While the cut scenes are more like a regular 
 animated movie. The music is okay, not really as good. The characters are okay, and the voice acting 
 isn't that good sounds more like an old Animated movie.
  
  Game-play/Controls:
  Sometimes it can be a little hard to control Alicia and when aiming your gun it goes every where 
 and sometimes the magic can be difficult to aim when you want to hit a certain monster. Sometimes 
 the controls can be shaky. The most part it's fun, but annoying in most parts.
  
  Weapons and Magic:
  The weapons are good and the magic are good, but when you want to upgrade 
 your weapons and magic they don't give you enough points to build it up. It takes a while to build 
 and you have to wait to the end to get the points to max everything out.
  
  Other thoughts:
  Well if you want to try this game out, rent the game!! But the game is good, 
 but not to own. The story isn't that good, I doubt that they will be a second game for this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 4
Date: May 21, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I normally go into specific details about what has caused me to form my opinions, but I don't know 
 that I can do so good a job of that this time. EVERYTHING about Bullet Witch is mediocre, at best, 
 and could even have a tough time competing with last generation titles. There isn't really anything 
 to be impressed with, so the only satisfaction I can receive out of the time I spent playing it 
 is being able to warn others against wasting their own time lightly.
  
  I'll try to walk through the usual criteria...
  
  Graphically, the character concept of Alicia, 
 the Bullet Witch, is very nice but the execution leaves me wanting. In an apparent attempt to make 
 everything she does sensual, none of her movements look natural and some are even borderline impossible... 
 and that's forgetting that she is slinging a very large gun around with one hand. While their simple 
 animations are relatively unflawed, compared to the extravagent detail of Alicia, all of the other 
 characters in the game suffer greatly in the costuming department. The Geists and other baddies 
 have been lovingly painted in flayed skin and made to look creepy... but there is little to no 
 variety, so all of the assault rifle carrying Geists look like this and all of the shotgun carrying 
 Geists look like that and all the sniper Geists have this body and the LTs have barrets. With the 
 exception of some alternate faces only really discernable during cutscenes, all of the human Resistance 
 soldiers look identical. The handful of demons you will face are unimaginative. Walnut Heads are 
 enormous floating brains, which glow a certain colored so you know which magical barrier will go 
 down when you kill them and whose normal sized bodies hang beneath. Gigas are towering giants who 
 look like melted wax sculptures with a pulsating tumor over their heart and a massive gatling cannon 
 bolted to one arm. There are a few others like the Screamers and possessed/infected humans who 
 dash about all cracked out and gibbering... but they aren't worth more mention than that.
  
  Scores are no better in the sound department, with the assorted combat effects just not sounding 
 right and the various voices often being inaudible thanks to other noise drowning them out or just 
 kewl effects to make them sound demonic resulting in incomprehensible speech. The voice acting 
 during the cutscenes is little better and, again, Alicia's quality is SO much higher than anything 
 else but the attempt to make her sensual and mysterious doesn't work out despite a nice sounding 
 voice. The dialogue is disturbingly amateur.
  
  Gameplay is lacking. Control-wise, the fairly standard layout of how you move around, look around, 
 jump around, switch weapons, and shoot at things is there but interacting with your magical abilities 
 is clunky. Pressing either bumper scrolls through the three submenus, each with three spells assigned 
 to X, B, or A and Y to cancel magic use. You can still move and shoot and everything else with 
 the menus up, but it is distracting and thus not easy to cast dynamically during a firefight. Playing 
 the game is often annoying and sometimes frustrating. Not in difficulty, but in sheer playability. 
 Your crosshair offers no indication of where your shots will actually land and someone apparently 
 thought that bullets travel slowly through the air, making you lead your targets by unrealistic 
 distances. Combine that with an AI that occasionally likes to sidestep back and forth at speed, 
 bouncing around like a spider monkey on pixi stix and meth, and the difficulty of putting even 
 a few shells into a simple Geist trooper can get obnoxious. Your spells fair little better, most 
 of which are an interesting change of pace but ultimately not as effective as just shooting your 
 starting machinegun. While the third tier of your magic, the massive effect/let's mess up everything 
 on screen spells, are devasting but only Lightning Bolt is truly aimable with any efficiency.
 
  
  As you complete each level you are ranked and score some points with which to upgrade your hp/mp, 
 guns, or magic. In effect, this is pointless as the enemies all benefit from the mysterious video 
 game rule of reality and get stronger right along with you. Upgrading your machinegun or buying 
 and upgrading some of the other gun options just serves to keep you escalating with the increasing 
 toughness of your foes and it still takes just as much ammo to bring them down throughout the game. 
 All of your upgrades do carry on after beating the game, so you can use them from the beginning 
 of your next play-through... but you must play through the levels in a linear fashion to gain any 
 more points as stage select just lets you improve your rankings without reward. There are also 
 some downloadable challenge missions but even a few bucks is too much more to pay for expanding 
 this game.
  
  Finally, the story. It is well told, if a bit lame. The world is in ruins after numerous catastrophes 
 and an invasion of demons. It turns out, a truly desperate man delved into dark magicks and chose 
 to sacrifice himself at a place of power in order to resurrect is beloved daughter, who had died 
 in a plane accident. His sacrifice opened a portal that has allowed of this to happen. Alicia, 
 it so happens, is that daughter... back from the dead and all growed up... and she is burdened 
 by the knowledge that all of the untold misery, destruction, and horror is because of her. If you 
 are paying attention, you can piece this together as the cutscenes unfold but it is not blatantly 
 spelled out for you until late in the game, which was a good try. The problems are that a lot of 
 things just don't make sense and that a LOT goes unexplained. Why is Alicia now a witch? What is 
 the deal with her broom-looking uber gun? What is that dark voice that talks to her throughout 
 the game? Why is this one major demon (the focus of her hunt through the game) so important to 
 her?
  
  All-in-all, rent it or pick it off the bargain bin for no more than $10. Otherwise, you're burning 
 money. It has some appeal but that quickly is spent on all of the negative features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HVPinc
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The basic premise of this game is that the earth got screwed over by plagues, droughts, evil governments 
 and demons pretty rapidly and what few humans are left are getting killed off by the demons. Your 
 a witch which seems to be a human with demon esque powers. You go around killing the demons. The 
 end. Hope I didn't spoil anything there for you. 
  
  Graphically the game isn't bad but its far from good. Its essentially a C- on a grading scale. 
 Considering the graphics, there's some pretty nice atmosphere set up through the post apocalyptic 
 story but its mostly offset by the terrible voice acting. 
  
  Now, the sad thing is that this game tries very hard to be a good game. Its major faults are that 
 it fails in the two most important categories of a first person shooter:
  
  1. It has horrible AI
  
  2. The aiming mechanics are horrible.
  
  I really don't understand 
 what these developers were thinking. Its obvious that they weren't being lazy. The went out of 
 their way to create destructable enviroments and some very cool magic spells but you can't aim 
 to save your life. On top of that there's no optional auto aim or aim assist. Its all rather perplexing 
 really. I think that this also explains the terrible AI. Rather than making decent aim mechanics, 
 they just made the AI so stupid that it stands still enough for you to be able to shoot them. 
 
  
  I mean that litterally. There's a part early on in the game where a huge miniboss comes up, and 
 it actually looks cool, and your set up for an epic battle but it just stands there. You can shoot 
 it, jump into it or whatever. It just stands there untill it dies. Very dissapointing.
  
  That is not to say that this game is not enjoyable at all though. At its current price range of 
 about $10-$17 it is totally worth it as a tag along game you buy just because you've got some leftover 
 cash with your good game. It's just that if they'd fixed the shooting and Ai with it, you could 
 over look the rather boring level design and just enjoy a rather deep mindless FPS. 
  
  I do recommend this game but only in the previously mentioned scenario. Its an ok game that aspires 
 to be great. Thats the most praise I can give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celestial_todd
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  When i bought the game a 3 days after it came out in february 2007, i thought it was going to be 
 sick i was reading the previews in game informer and here on gamespot.
  When i got to actually play the game i was like alright. is this a joke?
  im going to list the 
 pros and cons now.
  
  
  pros-
  -graphics and explosions look great.
  -spells are awsomely cool.
  -having pretty much unlimited ammo is pretty sweet.
  -guns are 
 sweet (machine gun, shotgun, sniper, gatling)
  
  
  cons-
  -Names? like max cougar? how arcade is that!
  -game is alot like gears of war (story wise, not 
 combat)
  -to preform spells you are asked to hit LB or RB to open up the spells menu... IN THE MIDDLE OF 
 COMPAT!! (spell menu blocks the middle of screen)
  -enemies are just bizarre?
  -the resistance (humans rebelling, obviously) leader max cougar sends maybe 2 or 3 men with you 
 after the 1st mission dont do anything but distract the geist
  
  
  i still like this game i thinks its OK but it feels like your on your own alot of the time you 
 have to save civillians heal your men and its just annoying
  I would definatley rent it or buy it used because i wish i hadn't wasted 60$ on it if i knew it 
 was only going to be OK in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  To get my review started i'm gonna point out that this is not a perfect game and any shape or way. 
 Okay to start off, take a witch, give her a goth look, make her hot, give her spells and give her 
 a huge gun. Okay, this sounds crazy but that's what atari made who knows where they come up with 
 this stuff, but to my point.
  Bullet Witch is about a witch who hunts down zombies and giant floating brains, tanks, giant deformed 
 monsters which i have no idea what to call.
  Add some really hard bosses that take strategy to beat and there you have it a decent game. well 
 this is right in some ways and in some ways this wrong. This main suffering point of this game 
 is the glitches, having half-way decent enemies (some are smart, some are really dumb) and not 
 enough weapons as some people say. While the overrall game play is average, the graphics are pretty 
 good for this game, but character collison with some of the objects is glitchy ( you can walk through 
 most of the little objects laying around, such as boxes, poles, etc) . The gameplay is okay, nothing 
 to be shocked at, although it can be dull at some points. The storyline is kinda falls together 
 as you progress through the game. There are six stages full of adventure and shooting the lights 
 out with your gun. As you progress through the levels you are given points to spend on upgrades 
 such as spells or abilites based on how you completed the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Bulletwitch is one of my favorite game on X360 ^^
  
  The game is base on Shooter and magic. At the first look the game look disastrous but this isn't 
 so bad than that. The mixt was a succes! The game give a great environnement for the player and make 
 it free. You have many Spell and Broom-gun that you can upgrade to make them stronger than ever! They 
 have no multiplayer (I was not seeing this game be multiplayer, what that would like? ^^) but content 
 Download on Xbox live (pretty nice) . Atari make some good game (like the Dragon Ball sereis, that 
 will never end) and It's the first time I see them do a game like this ( Sci-Fi Shooter) ,
  for a beginnig it's poor but the game could be only a draft for make another one better (I really 
 hope it!!!!) . So here my Checklist:
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  -It's a little bit poor for the X360
  
  Gamepaly: 8.5/10
  -The broom-gun make the game more 
 funny ^^
  -Many powerfull Spell
  -Great mixt of Spell and Shooter (that's the thing catch me on this game)
  -The environnement 
 is a powefull weapon to kill your ennemies
  
  Story line: 8.5/10
  -You can't miss this part of the game, it's a so good story 
  -The story isn't long, about 10 
 hours or less ( but if you do the 3 mode that will take you to a average of 20 hours)
  
  Positive of this game: 9/10
  -Great Mixt!!!!!
  -Nice design for the monsters and and allies
 
  -Sexy main character
  -Nice idea for the Broom-gun
  -Good voice actor
  -great environnement
  -Little sub-missions that you can download on Xbox live
  -Superb and 
 Sexy costume (again on Xbox live and it's free)
  -Great boss fight
  -Sexy main character (again) !!!
  -Broom gun is a good idea, never see others game make that kind 
 of gun before
  
  Negative of this game: 5.5/10
  -The camera suck (Damn camera's designer)
  -the game isn't long
  -Alice make cry some kids 
 ^^
  -The life bar and the Mana bar is very small (even if they're LV. max)
  -Melee attack are the same for every Broom-gun and not so good (they should work a little bit more 
 on that)
  
  I give to this game a 8/10, I like this kind of shooter ^^ 
  I hope they will do another game like this one or another Bulletwitch (Better than ever!!!!!)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Nice Idea
  +Powering up takes pretty long (min 4 playthroughs)
  +its more fun on the 2nd playthrough
  
  The Bad:
  -Short
  -most Magics are useless
  
 -not a single collectable
  
  First off, I rented this game for a week and Im happy I just rented it. Even if I like brainless 
 Action-Games this one left a bitter taste in my mouth.
  
  The Graphics:
  The Graphics look like a XBox game in almost every point of sight. Exept some lightning effects, it 
 looks pretty poor. There are some high points, like the Mountain-Level, but the Fog in the Level after 
 which looks like you got your screen-brightness much too high destroys the positive mood about 
 it completely. Not even the Animations put the game out of the hole. Of course on a PC-Screen or 
 HD-TV it looks a bit better, but overall its a big disappointment.
  
  The Sound:
  The Voice-acting and the Soundtrack is ok, but the 5.1-Mix is not worth mentioning.
  
  The Gameplay:
 
  Basically you walk around, shoot what you see, and go on... doesnt seem too bad, but the enemys are 
 not dying that easy. The best about it is the fact that you dont need to think for a minute. The 
 Bosses rock too. Even the Idea for a good and bad ending of the Stage (which only affects your skill 
 points) is pretty nice.
  
  But since there are no collectables and exploring the area is pretty boring thanks to that, the 
 most of the Magic is pretty useless, some "Hey why did I die right now anyway?"-Moments and the 
 short lengh of 6 Levels (all under 30 Minutes) make it more a mess then a good game.
  The Character control isnt that great too and misses some smoothness
  and the cheesy Storyline 
 who seems a bit forced... its like the rest of a game: A nice Idea, but not too well executed.
 
  If you play it for the 2nd time youre luckily a bit stronger then before so its a lot easier 
 to swallow.
  
  So...:
  The Game has nice basics and Id like to see a 2nd part, but this game is nothing you need to pay 
 for. If youre interested anyway rent it for a weekend or something. Its not like its no fun at 
 all, but there are much better games that are also a eye-candy which this is certainly not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popeyfolger
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Ahh bulletwitch I have never been so disappointed in a game I bought for ten dollars. There isn't 
 much to say on this game in a positive light. So I'll just point out some of the reasons this game 
 is so bad. The main problems are the clunky controls. Oh yeah and don't forget the same annoying 
 enemies in every level oh yeah and the incredibly uninteresting story that we have all heard a 
 million times. This game lacks depth. The most difficult thing about this game is keeping your eyes 
 open to play it. This game lacks the right to be called a game, For a game implies a certain level 
 of enjoyability. This is the type of game that leaves a bad taste in my mouth. This game truly 
 makes me doubt the magical gift that is the bargain bin. The only consolation I can find is that 
 I only bought it for $10.00 and some other people paid 60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VG_Freak
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Not only it is amazingly fun, the girl is hot, the spells are awesome and also easy achievements 
 what more could you ask for i love this game! It is super awesome and kinda hard at the same time 
 maybe short but that doesn't matter it is super fun to play over and over! ESPECIALLY when you 
 put it to bullet for my valentine, the poison it is so awesome! I recommend this game for everyone! 
 You get to use powerful spells and awesome guns especially the Gatling gun. Then the shotgun is 
 awesome damn this game is FRICKIN AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So this game is highly recommended 
 from me don't listen to gamespot they are the most critic place i've ever seen no offense so i 
 say get this game and after you finished it put it to music it's awesome like i say all the time, 
 but i can't help it when it's an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  Bullet Witch seems to be one of those love it or hate it games, personally, I loved it. You are 
 placed in the third person role of Alicia Claus, a beautiful, mysterious young woman who appears 
 on the scene when all humanity seems lost to hordes of demon armies. She is a good witch possessing 
 tremendously powerful spells and wields a large weapon known as a gunrod. Now she must track down 
 the master demon and defeat it, fighting the demon armies along the way. The game is a blast to 
 play; the most fun aspect is casting powerful spells such as lightning and tornados that not only 
 destroy demons but damage the environment as well. The game controls are smooth and easy to use.
 
  
  I found this game highly replayable, having played through all the game difficulties to obtain 
 all of the gamer points on my gamer card. I had to put the game away for a while just to catch 
 up on other games but I look forward to returning to it. It's just plain fun. The Bullet Witch 
 story ended in such a way that it has the potential for a Bullet Witch 2, if does come around to 
 being a reality, I'll be the first in line to buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  After careful inspection I can honesty declare that Bullet Witch is nowhere NEAR as bad as some 
 of the critics have panned it out to be. The game was met with a rather moderate reception when 
 it was originally released in the 2nd quarter of 2006 in Japan. Fast forward several months later 
 and the title finally sees the light of day stateside, thanks to Atari. Problem is, it hits at 
 a time when the consumers have already been introduced to much higher budgeted and produced shooters 
 (from the Gears, to the Lost Planets, to the Rainbow Six Vegas' and on down) . It almost seems as 
 though the critics were so desensitized by the other shooters on the market, that when Bullet Witch 
 finally came along (stateside) , they viewed it at as a competitor, thus rating it unfairly. Sure. 
 the game has flaws, (some more overt than others) but what games don't?
  
  You play the role of a reclusive witch by the name Alicia. The setting takes place in 2013 A. D., 
 at a when time demons appear to be an even bigger threat to the human race than before, summoning 
 Geist (subhumans made from demon quota) to do their dirty bidding for them on Earth. As Alicia 
 (the only witch powerful enough to take them on) it's your duty to vanquish the hellspawns to wence 
 they came. However, you're not entering the battle alone. Along the way, you'll be allied with 
 humans who will fight alongside you in hopes of salvaging humanity from the demons.
  
  Gameplay basically consists of getting from point A to point B. Weapon's consist of the machinegun 
 (your primary weapon) , shotgun, cannon, and gatling gun (my personal favorite) , and all part of 
 your Gunrod. These weapons can either be upraded or powered up. Upgrading can either be done between 
 stages or from the title screen's options menu. It enbables for stronger weaponfire damage, as 
 with powering up. Powering Up gives each weapon a special, unique, attack effect. For the machinegun; 
 fire, shotgun; wind, gatling gun; lightning, and cannon; first-person sniper view. You never really 
 run out of ammo since the guns' ammo are magically generated, thus require magic points to reload. 
 Magical spells (BW's main highlight) are generally a well balanced mix off offensive and defensive 
 skills. In some instances you'll need to use a powerful attack spell to take out an overpowerful 
 enemy, in which normal weapons simply won't take out. You recover magic points by taking out enemies 
 with your guns. Through battle you'll occasionally run into civilians and soldiers (NPCs) to whom 
 you can lend help to (granted their in need) . Some will express their gratitude in by giving you 
 an item in which will replenish your health much quicker (your health recovers gradually overtime, 
 considering you've lost any) . You aren't required to rescue or save any civilians or soldiers, 
 but doing so (or not) does have a substantial hold on your overall ranking at the end of each mission.
 
  
  The graphics are for the most part, decent. Huge, open-ended, scenic environments. Most objects 
 in the game are fully destructible and can be used to your advantage in many instances. The physics 
 are quite impressive. Especially being that Cavia (the developers of BW) used their own proprietary 
 physics engine, rather than working off an existing one, such as Havok or PhysX. However, there 
 seem to be some MAJOR clipping and collision issues. Despite all of Atari's attempts at cleaning 
 these up for the stateside release, some are just too unmistakably obvious to pass up. You'll walk 
 through a trash can, yet can oddly shoot it to pieces. There's also some irregular pop-ups (in 
 the background) from time to time, knowingly in the wider scenic areas. The game is visually at 
 it's finest on the airbase/railroad stage (beautiful scenery and dynamic multi-tiered environments 
 and physics) and it's somewhat a pity that the developers were unable to achieve this type of quality 
 all throughout the game. My only guess and reasoning for this is that the game was rushed at some 
 point.
  
  Enemy A. I. is alright for the most part. Geist soldiers are cocky and arrogant (they have plenty 
 of character, some will even attempt to bribe you into sparing their lives) but can put up a fight. 
 They'll try to strafe, dodge, and roll out of the way off oncoming fire, so it's not like they 
 just stand there and let you hit them. You'll occasionally run into some overly aggressive soldiers 
 who will practically do everything in their power to not get hit by you (some geist soldiers weapons 
 doing more damage than others) but will constantly keep a strong trail on you in the process. The 
 snipers appear to be the most unbalanced enemies in the entire game. Seemingly having godlike bird's 
 eye accuracy and can aim from 200 acres afar (literally) . They NEVER miss. So the moment you see 
 red lights trailing you, if you've not hidden yourself for cover in time, it's all over.
  
  Controls are average. Ducking/crouching is pretty much useless being that you move like a tank 
 when trying to do so. This leaves you open as a huge magnet for gunfire, since you can't evade 
 attacks while crouched (cannot roll or jump) . Another huge issue is the magic window. There are 
 times when you can be well positioned (with the right amount of magic points) and for whatever 
 reason, the spell won't activate. Since spells can only be casted through live window, it's very 
 common that you can be killed while attempting to assign one. For instance, if you try active the 
 lightning spell and miss, you're open to attack for a few agonizing moments. Perhaps the developers 
 were trying to make is so that you'd make tougher decisions in using spells in tight situations, 
 but in the process made it more frustrating. It's almost like they were trying to torture and penalize 
 you for trying to enjoy the features in which the game possesses. Hit detection is also off some. 
 There are too many instances in which an object can be hurled at you and be off several frames, 
 yet it will still do full damage (as if landed at you accurately) wiping you out in an instant. 
 Other instances, you can be aiming/shooting directly at the enemy and your attacks won't register.
 
  
  Voiceacting is a mix. It can range anywhere from intermediate to "When's my next break at again?" 
 The music, on the other hand is astonishing, with a great deal of the compositions being symphonic, 
 fitting the game's atmosphere.
  
  Bullet Witch is an overall decent game. While the game spands only six stages long, extra missions 
 can be unlocked via Xbox Live, along with costumes, which help add replay value and longevity. 
 It's a fun fast-paced/action shooter. If you can look beyond some hindering flaws (and ignore the 
 overly harsh critic remarks) , beyond all of the rubble lies a potentially great game (which just 
 seems that the developers weren't able to fully capitalize on for whatever reasons) . Unfortunately 
 some may find the game's faults too unbearable to consider giving it a fair chance. Hopefully these 
 problems will be addressed in the sequel. I'm anticipating much in store from Bullet Witch 2. We'll 
 definitely see more of Alicia (whether it be in comics, games, or even potential anime spin-offs) .
 
  
  In short, if you are a fan of Devil May Cry and Lost Planet, then you should give this game a chance, 
 if only to say that you have gotten the achievments points, and did I mention, There's only 999. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I really liked. Don't worry, my exceptional taste in games has not suffered nor 
 declined but rather, I'm starting to give mediocre and unknown games a chance. I feel like a change 
 this year and my current appendage is not buying crap games, but buying unique games. I found some 
 great gems towards the end of the year, usually bought on impulse and games I really find interesting. 
 Bullet Witch is one of these games, and while I'm not blinded by a scantily clad woman and I do 
 know the game is somewhat poor, I do find the game somewhat enjoyable and is worthy of a rent or 
 buy if it's cheap, and it is.
  
  The story goes that some evil force has surfaced and is killing people, so clich. Alicia steps 
 forward, the titular Bullet Witch, wielding a gun resembling a humorous broom and slaughters the 
 repetitious evil forces that plague the uninspired levels of the world.
  
  The controls are simplistic and the magic menu takes an age to get use to it because it's done 
 in real time and it takes ages to find the spell you want to use and execute it. Cue rolling eyes 
 and all that. The actual core gunplay is average, extremely repetitive sluggish but is generally 
 fun... In short bursts... see what I did there?
  
  You may find many contradictory statements in this review such as me bombing the game and then 
 me saying it's fun and whatnot. The graphics are average, but the effects are okay. The writing 
 is dire and the acting is not much cop. The music is okay but nothing memorable or outstanding 
 and the length of the game is questionable. Kudos to the extra mission downloads at 20 MSPoints 
 and the free costumes, but that's not enough substantiate the real longevity of the game, which 
 is poor. However, for the length it's worthy of a rental or if you find it really cheap. And I 
 mean really cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Face it, most people who bought this game at launch were interested in the hot goth chick with 
 a big gun on the cover (her name is Alicia by the way) . A lot of people were probably disappointed 
 by this game overall, especially at the exorbitant price of 49.99 US Dollars. Well, I got my copy 
 for a cool 9.99$ brand new. That made this game much more bearable and actually let me enjoy the 
 good parts of the game (yes, hidden under the ugly exterior of near PS2 level graphics and bad 
 aiming, there are a few good ideas here) .
  
  Anyways, the story goes like this: You're Alicia, you have magic powers, some demon guy is in your 
 head, demons are coming from hell, you have to stop them, and be aloof and cocky, but really care 
 about humanity because you have daddy issues and some toolbag named Maxwell Cougar (yes, that's 
 his name) is trying to hit on you. I dunno, I left out the major spoiler in case you decide to 
 try this game.
  
  Anyways, lemme break it down for you.
  
  Gameplay : You get 4 guns. A machine gun type deal, a shotgun, a sniper rifle and a gatling gun. 
 They have specific abilities like doing more damage to organic monsters, vs. robots... ugh... robots 
 and demons and, let's just say this is a C movie version of a video game. You can reload as much 
 as you want, assuming you have enough willpower (I will get to that in a second) . The weapons can 
 be upgraded at the end of each level with any bonus points you acquired based on time, number of 
 enemies killed and damage taken, also other secret events like "Not blowing up a dam" or "Don't 
 destroy the bridge in a cool explosion to squash the demon army, so the citizens can get out of 
 the city". To be honest, I just like blowing them up because the explosions are really cool. 
 
  
  Where was I? Willpower. Yes. Willpower. You have life (which regenerates) and willpower (which 
 doesn't regenerate automatically) . You have to kill the numerous baddies to get willpower back. 
 Correction. Maximum willpower can get drained by certain weapons being reloaded when your gauge 
 isn't full, or if you use a powerful magic. Willpower does regenerate, but only to the point where 
 your maximum is set to. Killing increases the maximum value it can recharge to. 
  
  Willpower also is used for Alicia's other abilities. Certain abilities are very handy. She has 
 a force-like push that can shove cars, debris, enemies etc away and squash them. Very handy for 
 clearing barricades. Also you can adjust your combat tactics by pushing a burnt out car closer 
 to the enemy barricade for a more tactical position. Too bad Gears didn't have that ability outside 
 of a few scripted cars. Other handy spells are Ancient Wall which puts up a mystical wall in front 
 of you to block enemy fire with length depending on your magic level. 
  
  The ancient magics like Lightning are used to do heavy damage on tanks and other baddies (In fact 
 you fight on top of a plane one time where a giant demon is flying after you, and the only way 
 to beat him is call lighting down on it and then shoot it when it is weak. A very hard, but epic 
 fight, one of the cooler moments in the game) . Tornado is used to destroy enemy helicopters and 
 also wreak havoc. Meteor destroys everything. And I mean everything. Giant skyscrapers = a mere 
 pittance for Meteor. 
  
  Other abilities are "sacrifice" where the emo/goth Alicia "magically" bleeds out her wrist in a 
 shower of blood. This is handy for keeping your soldier allies alive against a certain boss. Other 
 abilities are kind of useless or not as powerful as they should be. 
  
  The game itself is a shooter with a few elements of "Kill the walnut head of a certain color to 
 disable the colored barrier". Yea, there are rainbow colored barriers that giant brain things control. 
 So instead of a colored key, you have to pop oversized zit brain things to get along. It's too 
 bad that this gameplay element is repetetive and extremely retro... and not in a good way. More 
 like a too lazy to make every facet of the game fit together way. 
  
  Alicia can hop and do some sweet backflips to get out of the way, but the jumping is a little bit 
 slow and takes a while to recharge. Don't think Unreal Tournament type speed, think a more graceful 
 and hot goth chick version of Halo 3... except the aiming reticle is so small and innacurate sometimes 
 it's infuriating that you can't air out some zombie demon's chest with your shotty at point blank. 
 
  
  The enemies you see are mostly zombie demons (generic footsoldiers) , the walnut heads who can use 
 telekinesis to chuck cars at you, tanks, giant zombie things that look like Astaroth from Soul 
 Calibur, a few bosses here and there, some weird infected humans and ghosts that annoy the crap 
 of you. 
  
  The gameplay is ok, has some good moments, but is quite repetetive and has horrendous aiming. Some 
 abilities are kind of useless.
  
  Gameplay = 6 out of 10
  
  Graphics : Pretty crappy in terms of textures and environments. The models (including Alicia) are 
 PS2 quality or worse. Oftentimes models clip and are generally not what you expect on an HD system. 
 
  
  The city/forest/army base and other areas are quite sparse and barren, although the mountain range 
 area is quite spacious and well made.
  
  If this game earns any good points in graphics, it's the destruction. Buildings, cars, walls, giant 
 wood scaffoldings and dams, everything explodes and does damage and looks pretty while doing it 
 and causing death upon your foes. 
  
  There are a few cutscenes which are in stark contrast, very well done. Maybe not Squeenix good, 
 but nonetheless better than the gameplay engine by far. 
  
  Nothing besides Alicia being a hot goth chick with 7 free costumes stands out graphically. That 
 and the explosions.
  
  Ok so it has a hot goth chick (I said that already right?) and explosions and guns? It can't be 
 all bad?
  
  Graphics = 6 out of 10
  
  Sound : There is no good quality surround sound here, and the sound effects are pretty generic. 
 The gunshots are passable, the explosions loud and the enemy battle cries annoying.
  
  The few cutscenes have acceptable voice overs, and Maxwell Cougar isn't a a big of a tool in terms 
 of his voice as he is in terms of his way with the ladies. Alicia has the aloof goth chick covered 
 pretty well. You know, I hate life and I'm sooo emo, but I begrudgingly am willing to save the 
 world type attitude?
  
  There are some cool rock/metal tracks every so often (when the music doesn't just randomly stop 
 because the gerbil spinning the disc gets tired) , but those aren't things that make it worth searching 
 out the soundtrack and ordering it. 
  
  Sound = 6 out of 10
  
  Value : If you paid 50$ for this you got ripped off.
  
  If you paid 9.99$, you got to look 
 at a hot goth chick who is scantily clad, carries big guns and causes lots of explosions. Congratulations, 
 you have a Spike TV movie!
  
  Value = 7 out of 10 (as I paid 9.99$ it mind you) .
  
  Tilt : Here is where I have to give love to this game.
  
  1.) I know, I know. I said it before 
 I'll say it again. Alicia is a hot goth chick. Say it with me once more so I'm sure you are listening. 
 
  
  This is the biggest selling point. Don't kid yourself. I'm not.
  
  2.) Explosions are cool. There are lots. Stuff goes boom then falls down, usually killing baddies. 
 This game understands that.
  
  3.) There are SOME good gameplay elements. Like using certain magics stategically, using the proper 
 weaponry, like sniping from a distance vs. using a shotgun against enemies up close, using collapsable 
 environments, pushing cars and enemy barricades, a few cool boss fights, which more like it could 
 have been included.
  
  4.) I paid 9.99$ for it.
  
  5.) There are free achievement points. 
  
  6.) Alicia is a hot goth chick.
  
  Tilt = 8 
 out of 10
  
  Recap :
  Gameplay : 6 out of 10
  Graphics : 6 out of 10
  Sound : 6 out of 10
  Value : 7 out of 10
  Tilt : 8 out of 10
  Old Gamespot Score : 5.9
 
  Final New Score = 6.0 (be glad that 5.9 is closer to 6.0 than 5.5, Bullet Witch) .
  
  Pros :
  + Alicia is a hot goth chick
  + Lots of explosions
  + Some decent boss fights
  
 + Some decent combat mechanics
  
  Cons :
  - Atrocious graphics, PS2 level at best
  - Sound is utterly forgettable
  - Aiming is pretty bad
  - Enemies are very very repetitive 
 as a the missions and overall game structure, only lightly dotted with interesting events. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Maybe its just me, but I love a deal. Bullet Witch was a game that my eyes had come upon many times 
 but to pay full price for a game of this short is just never justified. Recently I found a copy 
 of Bullet Witch in the famous two for thirty bin and figured the price was right to bring this 
 bad boy home. 
  
  
  
  I'm not one to be cruel in my reviews, I like to try and find some quality that makes any game 
 interesting, I try to find the spark that the developers saw within the concept of the game and 
 try and enjoy it on that level. In the case of Bullet Witch its not just hard, its often painful. 
 
  
  
  The Gameplay is what perhaps hurt the most, the level designs at times are awkward and confusing 
 then all of a sudden it becomes straight forward and simplistic? You are walking through a town 
 with people who will say generic things then all of a sudden there is some undead enemy firing 
 at you from a porch? Its odd. 
  
  
  
  What makes it all the more odd is that you are fighting the same handful of enemies over and over 
 and over and over, and while in some cases or some games that have other redeeming qualities I 
 can at least forgive that in Bullet Witches case its simply laziness. 
  
  
  Also the "obstructions" in levels come off at times as nothing more then a programmer thinking 
 "Hmmm, this level is too short, lets add a blue wall and require the player to snake through narrow 
 gaps in walls to find a blue walnut head to add a few more minutes" 
  
  
  Its just tragic, and while many other reviewers go on about the "innovative" concept of the game 
 I simply look at it as an interesting premise that the developers generally went NO WHERE with. 
 Innovation requires me to at least see some glimpse of being innovative Bullet Witch simply tempts 
 you with a neat concept and does nothing with it. I would argue there is more depth on the back 
 of the box and in the instructions then you get out of playing through the game. 
  
  
  The spells I will admit are very cool, but accessing them while under heavy fire is a difficulty 
 that was unnecessary. The game is made more difficult because of poor control design rather then 
 gameplay and that is just unfair to the player. 
  
  
  As for the standard weapon, perhaps its just me but about 30 minutes into the game I found it more 
 productive to simply use my broom as a sword then it was to fire it as a weapon, the aiming was 
 questionable coupled with the fact that the its not all that powerful. one swing basically does 
 what 20 bullets will do. 
  
  
  Graphically, its the tale of two games I found many of the distant backgrounds to be interesting 
 and rather cool looking yet you never really reach those backgrounds, the levels are interesting 
 based on the heavy interaction with nearly all objects but its nothing that impressive. 
  
  
  I have never been one to say that Great Graphics = a Great Game, but in Bullet Witches case 
 the game could have benefited from more detailed environments which would have taken away from 
 the monotony of killing the same enemies over and over again. Perhaps a more interesting environment 
 would have taken the mind off the fact that you are generally doing the same thing over and over 
 again. 
  
  
  It should be noted that the "larger" scale spells look interesting and when something large explodes 
 (IE Gas Station) its very cool. 
  
  
  The sound and effects are an aspect of the game that so much more could have been done but simply 
 was not. The weapons (as limited as they are) sound weak, and even the sound of something large 
 exploding sounds greatly underwealming. 
  
  
  In this day and age of gaming there should never be a game within this genre where there is no 
 benefit to playing on a 5.1 or 7.1 system over the standard 2.0 that you TV speakers offer you. 
 
  
  Honestly, the bass was so over done at times I actually turned off my sub when playing on surround.
 
  
  
  Which brings us to the value factor, 
  The play value in terms of the first run through the game is largely unsatisfying because you are 
 playing in the hopes that you will get a better understanding of the story, and it really doesn't 
 give you what you hope for. Its a very unsatisfying end which leaves you with little reason to 
 pick up the controller and play again. 
  
  As for its replay value, I have little interest in picking it up again and its very possible it 
 may sit on my gaming shelf till such a time that I move my current gen games to my last gen wall. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I had extremely high hopes for this game indeed. It implements some well thought out ideas but 
 the way they perform it is very poorly. First off, you start the game with this chick named Alisha. 
 She's pretty much an undead witch that is sent back to Earth to rid the world of the demons that 
 plague it. Now, the storyline is actually pretty good. It may have flaws to it, such as your dumb 
 allies (seriously, I wanna kill Maxwell) , but all in all its actually a pretty interesting storyline. 
 Its almost like DMC light. One of my favorite features is your weapon. Its a broom stick that turns 
 into multiple types of guns. Its a very unique piece of weaponry, one of the only strengths of 
 the game. Another strength of the game is your magic. You have a load of different abilities you 
 can perfrom such as the rose spikes; which you throw roses out that turn into spikes that impale 
 your enemies and the ancient wall that shields you for some time. Or send your crows out to pick 
 at their face while you light them up with gun fire. You also get heavy magic in which you can 
 summon lightning or even tornados (my personal favorite) onto your enemies, which never seems to 
 get old. Now, the magic may indeed be awesome, however, the way you select them is clumsy. To choose 
 your magic you get this big inventory screen that pops up in the middle of your screen which blows. 
 The graphics are not bad, but nor are they very good. For a 360 title, it deserves better. But 
 its not nearly as bad as many reviewers have stated. It does NOT look like a damn PS2 game. All 
 in all, it starts off ok, but never really seems to speed up. There are moments where the game 
 shines, but it is only under a cloud of flaws. There are some points where you are in a semi awe 
 and amusement, however, the level designs are so bland and unlively that it takes away from the 
 possibility of a great battle. It has great ideas and great enemies, but is marred by poor execution. 
 Maybe if there is a sequel they can iron out all the bugs and enhance the game itself and just 
 maybe, JUST MAYBE, we might have a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpeno_0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Bullet Witch is one of those games that alot of people aren't going to like. It doesn't have cutting 
 edge enemy AI, or jaw dropping, next to real life graphics. Don't get me wrong, those things are 
 great, but not every game is going to have them. And Bullet Witch does not. But what it does have 
 more than makes up for it. Bullet Witch takes place in the near future and the world is almost 
 at it's end. Plagued by war, famine, disease, frequent natural disasters, and now a demonic invasion, 
 things aren't looking so good for our poor little planet. Enter Alicia, the Bullet Witch. She's 
 come along to rid this world of the demonic invasion and she plans on doing it in about six hours 
 or so. The story in Bullet Witch is actually pretty good for this type of game. There are a few 
 twists, fairly obvious ones, but they serve to keep the story from being stale. There's also a 
 character or two to meet during her journey. Along the way you'll learn why Alicia has her powers 
 and why she is so destined to thwart the invading demons. (Besides saving the world of course)
 
  
  Gameplay is really what these types of games come down to. If it's not fun to play you're not going 
 to stick around to find out how the story ends. And personally I think that gameplay is where Bullet 
 Witch shines. Alicia comes
  equiped with the Gunrod. A sort of metallic broom mixed with a heavy machine gun. The Gunrod has 
 four functions, all of which you much purchase save for the first one. Assault Rifle, Shotgun, 
 Cannon (Sniper Rifle) , and Chaingun. Personally I didn't find much use for most of the guns, except 
 on only a few occations. I mostly used the default rifle. Everytime Alicia reloades her gunrod 
 it takes a small portion of magic, after all who can carry that much ammo on them. Alicia's magic 
 meter refills at a pretty good pace so there's really only a few occations where you'll actually 
 run out of ammo, usually after casting a massive spell leaving her MP gauge empty.
  
  The gunplay in BW is fun, but what really stands out is the spells. Spells range from simply creating 
 a magic wall in front of Alicia protecting her from enemy fire, to massive meteor storms which 
 can level almost an entire city block. Witnessing the meteor storm for the first time is truly 
 a sight to see. As well as the first time you see the tornado. You'll giggle with glee as you watch 
 a massive twister circle around the entire area uprooting trees, plucking helicopter from the sky, 
 tearing the roof off of nearby buildings. Truly Amazing. There are 9 spells in all and each have 
 their own distinct use. The game has it's own system to prevent you from overusing the most powerful 
 spells. They require a full magic bar to cast, and once they are used your magic bar's size is 
 lowered to less than 1/4 of it's previous size. But all you have to do to restore the overall size 
 of your magic bar back to normal is to kill enough enemies. The enemies in BW are not the brightest, 
 but in this type of game, genius AI isn't required. They will start off in the earlier stages just 
 standing there firing at Alicia, but as you play more into each level they will start to run for 
 cover, dodge your shots, or just plain charge you. There are some truly unique creatures to fight 
 in this game. Too bad there just aren't enough of them. The first time you see a Gigas, your jaw 
 will drop, but by the time you've finished the game you've fought a countless number of them and 
 their shocking size is no longer intimidating. The graphics are not Gears of War, but they fit 
 the game just fine. There
  are a few glitches that you may witness, such as flickering shadows, or large chunks of rubble 
 getting stuck together and then hopping and twitching about. But witnessing the highly destructible 
 environments really makes it very easy to accept these minor flaws. The sound in this game is a 
 little of a mixed bag. The music is good, really good in some spots. But the voice acting, not 
 so much. It's not terrible as in ..... I hope it's not Chris' blood! It's just average. What little 
 Alicia does speak sounds good enough, as does her inner voice. But Mr. Cougar, the spiky haired 
 rebellion leader, can't seem to decide what emotion he want's to express while he speaks. The gunfire 
 could've been better, most are pretty good, but the shotgun doesn't pack the bang that a shotgun 
 should. It sounds more like someone hitting a bass drum with a wadded sock. All in all Bullet Witch 
 comes off as a good, fun game. It's got plenty of different ways to dispose of enemies and casting 
 those massive spells just doesn't seem to get old. Personally I can't seem to understand why everyone 
 is giving this game such a low score. I'm so glad I decided to go against what everyone was saying 
 and play this game for myself. It truly shocked me at how fun it is. If you're into shooters or 
 magic based games, you owe it to yourself to at least rent this game. You might be as surprised 
 as me at how fun it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaisons
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Best way to play the game is on easy mode.... that way you can QUICKLY kill all the zombiesand level 
 up to the really cool magic items.... I found that on even normal level - the zombies made the game 
 too boring... The graphics are bloody enough. The audio is ok. Nice frame rate.... nice choice of 
 weapons.
  
  The spells you acquire near the middle of the game are unlike I have ever seen before.... you can 
 take down whole buildings and actually see them crumble. The game does grow on you...
  
  This game is well worth the money. And the downloadable content doesn't hurt. Kilroy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Bullet Witch represents a kind of game we have all seen before -- great concept, poor execution. 
 Bullet Witch puts you in control of a vixen with a gun and magic power in a third person shoot-em-up. 
 Unfortunately the game is marred by poor level design and unimaginative enemies. Levels are huge 
 but they are so sparsely populated that it takes a good while to run from one set of enemies to 
 another. Worse yet is when you actually run into an enemy is combat is hardly satisfying. There 
 are some good ideas in the game; eg. upgradable weapons and powers, a semi-decent story) , good 
 overall graphics and sound but they do not alleviate the fundamental flaw in the game. Simply put, 
 this game is a bore-feast, even if you want it for achievement points. Avoid this game as there 
 any many better ones to choose from.
  
  5.5 / 10
  
  Visit my gaming site: www. gamingdump. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  I'd recently decided to rent this, to see how good, or how bad the game turned out. Well, let's 
 review the good, the bad, and the ugly. You're a witch... with unlimited ammo, regenerating health, 
 and an immense amount of magical powers trying to stop the world from ending. Is this game original? 
 No, not really. You'll find yourself seeing a feeble attempt of gears of war and/or devil may cry 
 fall apart in front of your eyes. The storyline tries to shock you about 3/4 through the game, 
 but if you've been paying attention, it doesn't really do it.
  
  There are 2 reasons why you probably shouldn't touch this game. First, you'll see the most disturbing 
 creations of enemies ever thought of in a game programmer's head. Even in the first level, you'll 
 find a giant floating brain with a human body attached, with a strange noise emanating from it. 
 It was lovingly named walnut head. You'll also see a boss which is essentially a giant undead dragon/fish 
 thing with giant-sized eyeballs flying at you while you shoot unheard of amounts of bullets while 
 standing on top of an airplane.
  
  Number 2. The difficultly continually switches from very easy to very hard. You can do quite a 
 bit of the levels by just holding dodge in the right directions, avoiding every gunshot going towards 
 you. On the other hand, like at the military base, it can be so frustratingly hard you'll have 
 to put down the game. The final boss was so irritating that I couldn't even bare to continue. Trying 
 to vainly shoot flying ghost heads bopping up and down and taking 1/5 of my health each was not 
 what I had in mind.
  
  The graphics are mediocre, the sound isn't interesting in the least, and the game itself can take 
 6 hours only to finish, assuming you even try that. Avoid this game like the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkycolts
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I am very disappointed that many of those who reviewed this game gave it a low rating. Graphics: 
 Excellent
  Sounds/Music: Great
  Game play: Great, I did not encounter any glitches.
  Controls: Excellent, no issues here
  Re playability: Good
  
  Overall this was an exciting 
 and unique game with a different concept. My only frustration in the later levels was how slow 
 it was at re-loading the gun. You have infinite ammo, what else can you as for. It had a decent 
 story line, and the character acting was a bit cheesy at times, but good overall. The levels got 
 increasingly hard as you progress, which made the final two levels more time consuming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigastormz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  A hot, scantily clad female witch, with huge guns and demonic magical powers? Sounds awesome right? 
 Not so much, but it is a lot better then you may have heard.
  
  BulletWitch is a 3rd person action/shooter game, set in a post apocalyptic future earth. You play 
 as a smokin hot witch named Alicia, who sets out to stop the invasion of demons onto the world. 
 Alicia wields a massive gun, called the gunpod, that can be morphed into several different types 
 of weapons; machine gun, shotgun, cannon, and Gatling gun. You also have several magical spells 
 available to you, with really cool effects and some can do massive damage. You also have unlimited 
 ammo for all the types of your gunpod, as long as you have enough MP to reload that is. After each 
 level you are rated on your performance and awarded skill points which you can use to upgrade your 
 gunpod, upgrade your HP and MP regeneration rates, or unlock/upgrade new magic spells.
  
  All of this sounds pretty cool so far, right? Well the game's flaws are visible right from the 
 get go. The camera is positioned behind and to the left of the character, think Resident Evil 4. 
 I have no real problems with the camera, and it works out pretty well in the game, the problem 
 is with the controls. Alicia moves way to slow, and it takes a long time to start firing your gun. 
 Alicia carries her gun on her back, since it is so damned huge that it's taller then she is. It 
 takes a couple seconds for her to pull it from her back to the firing position and in that time 
 you can be hit very easily. There is an option to adjust how fast Alicia moves, and it helps out 
 a bit, but there's no way to fix how long it takes her to get ready to fire. Every time you have 
 to jump/roll to dodge enemy fire you have to then pull out the massive gun again and risk getting 
 hit. The only thing you can do about this is just constantly hold down the trigger since you can 
 walk/run while you shoot. The only time this is a big problem is with boss fights. With the cannon 
 fodder enemies you don't really need to jump out of the way to avoid fire. Sure you'll take some 
 hits but Alicia has a good amount of HP and it regenerates fairly quickly. What you don't want 
 to do is get hit by a massive fireball a boss fires at you.
  
  A couple more minor annoyances are: When you are firing your weapon, you can click the right stick 
 to zoom in slightly to get a better aim but there is no real zoom feature on any of the weapons 
 (not without using a gun in combination with magic that is) . Alicia can not jump, per say, but 
 she can perform midair flips that you primarily use to dodge incoming fire but can also be used 
 as a jump. She can also crouch, and use a weak melee attack.
  
  Despite the slight flaws to the controls and the combat system, the real problem with BulletWitch 
 is the magic system. When you want to use a spell, you have to press the RB or LB buttons to bring 
 up this massive circular menu that covers half the screen and completely blocks your view of what 
 the hell is going on. Then you have to cycle through 3 menus of spells and select the one you want 
 with the A, B, X or Y buttons. The spells are organized into tiers with the weakest spells on the 
 first tier and the strongest on the last. So basically you're sitting there getting shot at while 
 you are trying to find the spell you want to cast. It would have been nice if they mapped out the 
 spells on the D-Pad or something, since it isn't even utilized in the game.
  
  So besides this there are still more problems with magic. For one, most of the spells just don't 
 work that well, and sometimes miss targets entirely. Two, almost all spells take up a whole ton 
 of MP. The problem with that is that it's not easy to refill your MP gauge. You don't get powerups 
 in the game, (there are no powerups in the entire game for that matter) , but what you have to do 
 is kill enemies to refill the gauge. Say you just used a magic spell but you missed your target. 
 You have to then kill that target with your gunpod to refill your MP gauge that you just wasted 
 on that spell. Other times you will be up against a boss or a difficult enemy and there are no 
 more cannon fodder baddies to kill, so you can't refill your mp gauge. All these problems combine 
 into this horrible mess and you are literally forced to use almost nothing but your gunpod for 
 the entire game. I used my magic sparingly. It really sucks too because all of the spells look 
 really cool and can do a whole lot of damage if you actually hit your target or if they work like 
 they're supposed to.
  
  The only spells I cast on a semi-regular basis are sacrifice which lets you heal your allies, and 
 the three great spells which are best for difficult enemies or large groups. Lightning, Tornado 
 and Meteor Lighting brings down a large lightning bolt on a single concentrated area, best used 
 for tanks. Tornado summons a huge tornado that sends objects, enemies and everything in its path 
 into a wild whirlwind, best used on helicopters and large groups of enemies. Finally Meteor, the 
 most powerful of the three great spells, summons a large meteor storm in front of you, literally 
 destroying anything in its path, easily the coolest of all three. There is also Elemental Shot 
 which gives your ammunition a natural elemental attack to it (fire, wind, lightning, etc.) . The 
 only useful one is when you combine that with the cannon, you end up with a sniper rifle of sorts, 
 but you get less then 10 shots with it and it's not as powerful as you think (then again I didn't 
 upgrade it) . There's also Raven's Panic which summons a fury of ravens that fly around your enemies 
 and distract them while you attack them. Ancient Wall summons a large brick wall you can hide behind 
 for cover. Rose Spear lets you throw a rose that summons giant spears that rise up from the ground, 
 impale your enemies and set them on fire. It looks cool but you rarely hit your target. Finally, 
 Willpower which is sort of a telekinesis attack where you send out a blast of air that sends any 
 object in its path flying. Good for moving cars out of the way and destroying enemy strongholds.
 
  
  As far as level design goes, all 6 of the levels are pretty boring. Most of them are outdoors in 
 a city, one has some indoor city action and a couple are out in the forest. The best level is the 
 forest level, since it is very large and a nice change of pace from the boring city environments. 
 Overall though, the levels are all quite boring. Each level takes about an hour to finish so you 
 can beat the whole game in 6-8 hours on your first play thru.
  
  Besides the level design, the enemies you will face are all quite boring. The main cannon fodder 
 baddie you fight are Geists. They are basically demons in human form and look like humans with 
 their skin ripped off. You will be facing countless numbers of these dudes throughout the game. 
 The Geists are the army the demons created to take over humanity. The next enemy type is a Walnut 
 Head. These enemies create several colored barriers around the levels to impede your progress. 
 They look like Geists but with a freakin massive brain that looks like a balloon as they are suspended 
 in mid-air. They don't move when you encounter them, but they have very strong telekinesis powers 
 that they can use to throw cars and large objects at you. You'll want to take these out pretty 
 quick so you don't get killed by a bus.
  
  The final type of enemy you face, (yes there are only 4 types of enemies in the game) is the Screamer. 
 These things look like a big blob of flesh with an obscured white face. They put up no defense 
 and are easy to kill but they shoot out these weird flying head shaped spirits that deal a lot 
 of damage to Alicia, as well as possessing your allies if they are hit by it. If hit, your allies 
 or civilians will turn into this absolutely crazy demon thing that looks like it's straight out 
 of Silent Hill. Man, these things creeped me the f*ck out. They look like humans from the neck 
 down, but their heads are this weird white colored disfigured attempt at a face, kind of like the 
 face of the Screamers. They constantly make this wild, disturbing sound that sends chills down 
 your spine when you hear it. Besides the sound, they run at you in a frightening way as well. They 
 sort of writhe around like they're in a panic, running for their lives and in massive amounts of 
 pain. Kind of hard to describe, but its very fear inspiring and you want to kill these things as 
 fast as possible cause they creep you out so bad lol Besides that they do a lot of damage to you 
 if you let them. They can breathe fire and open up their chest and use their ribs as giant spikes 
 to claw at you.
  
  Finally, the best part of the game, besides the possessed humans, are the bosses. There are 2 genuine 
 bosses and 1 boss that later appears as a regular enemy. The first one you encounter is called 
 Gigas. It's a huge humanoid demon with one arm that is a machine gun. It towers over the battlefield, 
 as tall as, if not taller then the buildings. At first the thing looks menacing and you think you're 
 in for a long fight, but it does have one weak spot that will kill it very quick if you exploit 
 that. You will encounter multiple Gigases later in the game, but never more then one at a time. 
 Some of them will have more armor that protects the weak spot but all it takes is a few more bullets 
 to destroy that armor. The second boss is this huge flying whale-like demonoid thing that you will 
 encounter while flying on a jumbo jet. The thing is as big as the plane and very cool looking. 
 It will send out these eyeball bombs that will try to land on the plane and drill into it to kill 
 the passengers inside. This was the most entertaining boss fight in the game, and the most visually 
 impressive. The final boss is called Omega. Take the classic look of the devil, make him black 
 and red, he has three snakes for an arm, his other arm looks like molten lava and his head is similar 
 to the Balrog from Lord of the Rings. A pretty cool looking boss, but man is this fight extremely 
 frustrating. I won't spoil anything but you're in for a half hour to one hour battle here.
  
  The graphics in the game are quite good. There are some rough spots but overall the detail 
 is decent, the enemies look nice and the bosses and Alicia herself are fantastic. There are some 
 draw in/fade in problems and some clipping issues as well but they don't ruin the game by any means. 
 As far as the sound goes, the sound effects are fine and the music is there but it's not memorable. 
 For achievements, you get 300 points for finishing the game on normal, the rest of them you'll 
 have to play through multiple times to achieve. I believe if you start up another game on a different 
 difficulty you carry over your skill points from the previous one, so your continued play-thrus 
 should be pretty easy with the maxed out skills.
  
  Overall, Bullet Witch is a decent rental but I wouldn't recommend buying it. It could have been 
 a fantastic game if they fixed the issues with the magic system, gave us a few more enemy types 
 and a little more variety with the environments. At times the game was absolutely awesome and fun 
 as hell, then at other times it was extremely frustrating and I wanted to stop playing immediately. 
 Its really hit or miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lobezno_D
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The thing about this game is that it seems to imitate several games that were actually good; Devil 
 May Cry, Gears of War, Kill Switch etc etc. only it doesn't completely wrap them up in a perfect 
 package. The controls are sub par, the spell menu is clunky and intrusive (kind of a dumb idea in 
 a game where you need to see all around) . The graphics are probably the only winner here, all the 
 environments are large and nicely detailed. Adding to the action is that they are all pretty much 
 destructible. This game is fun for a rental, the game offers little replay after it is passed, 
 just some meager costumes and mission types. Definitely rent this one before you buy, or get it 
 from a bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Link87
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  the game looks good to make you want to try it out, but fails to keep you imersed in with the story 
 line it is basically all look and gameplay falls short but if you absolutely must play it rent 
 it first then think about if you should purchase or not, personally i chose to buy it since it 
 does have it moments. The controlls tend to be a bit akward at first but it is easy to get used 
 to, lots of the stuff is destructable like buildings, trees, cars ext. The story is a bit confusing 
 and doesnt seem to explain much. basically the story is your this female witch that ends up having 
 to help humans so later on they can help you kill this big demon. there thats the whole game in 
 one sentence. if you do play this game i hope you see past the mistakes so you can enjoy the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I decided to give this game a shot since a lot of people had given mixed reviews about it. I thought 
 that the concept of a really hot witch busting bad guys up was pretty cool. Let me get down to 
 the point. This is a fun game. You can control up to 4 gunrods, machine gun, shotgun, sniper, and 
 rocket launcher. You have to purchase each gun upgrade, except the machinegun since it is a default, 
 by gaining points you receive after completing a mission. You also can purchase new spells with 
 the points you earn as well. I have not finished the game, but its pretty fun otherwise. I must 
 say, Alicia is really hot though, especially with her alternate costumes. You can download different 
 outfits and side missions for her to complete as well in the game. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  So you are Alicia. Its far in the future and humanity has been reduced to under a billion people 
 globally thanks to demons that have come to take the earth for its own. So our story begins......
 
  
  Graphics: Graphically its not the best but it isn't trash. There are some really great textures... thrown 
 in with some under par textures, which sometimes makes the game look unbalanced. The environments 
 look beautiful, but the low res low polygon vehicles, and buildings sometimes make me wonder if 
 this is a next gen game.
  
  Lighting effects are off the chart and shadowing effects are excellent too. Water effects are trash, 
 but the spells look AMAZING! Frame rates run good, not perfect but not unplayable. Enemies are 
 detailed, but could have been better. They resemble demonic zombies, with both low and hi-res parts... makes 
 no sense I know.
  
  Overall Visually it is great. Not Gears, but up to snuff... barely.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is somewhat shallow, but if your into action there is PLENTY of it. You 
 shoot cast spells, destroy optional environments, for maximum carnage, what more do you want? Controls 
 are simple although the menu to choose magic kind of sucks. You hit LB or RB and a menu comes up 
 to choose your spell..... the menu doesn't go away, this is how you cast spells, kind of clunky 
 but not to bad.
  
  Gun play is decent, again this is for those people who just want shooting loud explosions and crazy 
 spells. It isn't a very deep game, shoot kill, rinse, lather repeat, but I love it: D Just what 
 the Dr. ordered:)
  
  Sound: Voice acting is comparable to the original Resident Evil... Yea that good: *add sarcasm here* 
 Its F***ing garbage, plain and simple. I could act better. Spells and guns sound good, but voice 
 acting and enemies sound like garbage.
  
  Value: This game does have some replay value, if your into just plain fun action. Lots of blood 
 guts, explosions, magic. No multi player hurts it, Co-Op would have been a HUGE plus, even death 
 match could be welcomed. the neat thing is the fact that, like Dead Rising, you can level up by 
 doing the same levels over and over, then once your maxed out in everything, go to the hard level 
 and start mauling the game, and once you beat it you can level select, plus down load content is 
 really great to in my opinion.
  
  Still though Overall while I love the game, there is no denying the shallow wash and repeat system 
 that it has, a rent first, don't just buy it unless you are just looking for that loud pointless 
 type of game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games whose reputation precedes the truth. Now, that's not to say Bullet Witch 
 is a great game, cause it's not. But it's not as bad as the critics are saying. Graphically, the 
 game is subpar for the 360, except for the main character, who looks terriffic. The in-game cg 
 sequences look great, too. Unfortunately, the story sucks. Atmosphere, however, is nice in the 
 game: creepy and dark. Controls are not as easy as it could have been, and the gameplay is repettitve. 
 The one strong suit of Bullet Witch is the cool spells: creating a tornado is awesome, striking 
 down enemies with lightning is also cool. It's not enough to save Bullet Witch from mediocrity, 
 but again, this is not a bad game. If you like creepy, dark games, you may enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Before renting this game i had never heard of it. So, with all the good games rented out, i thought 
 i'd try this. The story reminds me of Doom, you against a bunch of demons that made their way through 
 some portal. The game is a standard 3rd person shooter, and you'll do little else than shoot everything 
 that moves. I liked some of the powers you can use, and also fully destructable enviornments. The 
 pysics in this game are excellent. I'm not sure if it's using Havok, but it sure seems like it. 
 Graphics are good, not great but passable. Decent lighting, nice sound effects. The main problem 
 with the game is the repetitve nature of doing nothing but shooting, but it makes for an enjoyable 
 rental, or purchase once it drops in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Quagmire
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun to play, the levels were a little too long, but then again there was only six 
 of them so it balanced out. The controls and gameplay is pretty solid. The spells in the game give 
 it that extra balance in the you versus 10 other guys and snipers and huge creatures. The ability 
 to upgrade and buy new things is a great feature and adds more to the game giving it that extra 
 fancy and feature. An overall fun and creative game, the final boss is a toughy but that's the 
 first of its kind and with a little more work it could be a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha172
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't that bad, I mean if you wanna try it out, you could go read reviews, see the gameplay 
 on youtube or rent it first before buying.
  
  The game isnt that bad or good, the gameplay can be quite difficult to control it times as I'm 
 sure the creators didn't spend enough time adjusting the crosshair and controllers right. It needs 
 alot more types of mobs as there's only a few, like geists with a few variaties of weapons, floating 
 brains with 'colourful-zomgwtfbbqpwnjuice' unpenetrable walls, longer campaign, more mobs to shoot 
 and blow up in each stage, bigger terrain, more things to blow up with your main weapon instead 
 of consuming magic every 5 minutes to see big collateral damage when you expect to see bits and 
 pieces shot off the walls by your weapon etc.
  
  It's really nice how they provide alot of free costumes for the sexy hot-witch and extra unlockable 
 spellpowers and maps in the Xbox Live Marketplace and Online rankings to compare who is better 
 than who by playing the longest. Although it still needs alot of work even with the nice spellpowers 
 like lighting for example that do alot of collateral damage for your viewing pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The story is one of the best I ever seen in years, in the near future chaos sweeps the world. War, 
 incurable viruses, the worlds population slowly dying off, what could be worse? Well seeing how 
 the world is in the state that it's in, demons decide this is the time to strike and take over 
 the world once and for all! A lone female warrior comes from the shadows, but is she here to help 
 humanity or working for her own gain? This is the story of Bullet Witch.
  
  You play as Alicia, beautiful, mysterious and a witch. Armed will your magic and gun broom, you 
 will take on anything that stands in your path. There will be demon solders, ghouls, giants, and 
 brain demons to stop you from saving the world. Thats just fine, your gun broom can turn into 
 a machine gun, sniper rifle ,gatling gun or a shot gun. You'll never have to worry about finding 
 ammo, your magic will reload you gun for you. Your spells also do a far job of helping you like 
 the panic ravens ( they fly all around the enemy and give you time to heal yourself or kill the 
 enemy) and stone wall (puts up a wall to block enemy fire) . There are more but those are the only 
 ones I found most useful. The controls are great, there is no delay when pressing any button.
 
  The scope of the game is amazing, when fighting a giant or a boss (there are only two) you'll 
 see how small you really are. There are also some nice extras in the game depending what you do 
 in the stage. A example is in stage one, you have a choice to blow up a gas station, if you do 
 this it will be in the news head lines. If you don't you'll get a different head line, it little 
 things like that, that will give you replay value and see what else you can do to change the headlines. 
 The graphics are great, no way could you confuse this game with a something from last gen. The 
 music is ok, if not hard to hear because of the screams and gun fire. The English voice acting 
 is alright for Alicia and her inner voice but everyone else just seems a bit off. The demon solders 
 are just laughable when they talk, but lucky you can kill them for talking! Most everything you 
 see can be destroyed such as cars, buildings and trees. The spells that you'll learn later in the 
 game are just jaw dropping. The power and damage they do will come in handy when you need them 
 most.
  
  Other than the voice acting there is nothing wrong with Bullet Witch, it a fun and great game. 
 All the downloadable content is ready for download, five costumes that are free and extra stages 
 that you must pay for. If you ask me the extra stage are not that great. They don't add much or 
 anything to the story and some are just harder versions of stages you already played. Its your 
 points, so you can get them if you want. I really loved this game, I really hope there will be 
 a Bullet Witch 2. If you played this game and liked it, you should try out AQ's Interactive next 
 game.... Vampire Rain . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flannelbrick
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  The games graphics were actually acceptable in my opinion and the interactivity in your surroundings 
 are average. To me I find the story to be interesting but it does have some of your average game 
 storyline mixed within it. The enemies were quite simple but were designed very neatly and in a 
 unique way. Now the main thing that captured me was the combat engine, its very stylish dodging 
 techniques, and magic use. Like I said the combat was awesome, but being that this game has some 
 repetitive game play I didn't feel as if I put the combat in good use. Overall I think this game 
 is a wonderful and unique play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxdeadpeacexx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I finally got my hands on Bullet Witch. I have to say this game is pretty good. The first thing 
 i did was hook up my Xbox360 to my modem. Then i start downloading the FREE Downloadable Content. 
 Yea i know i download all of the costumes. Im looking forward for more costumes in the future. The 
 game is very fun! The gameplay is ok but not the best. The Magic Spells is awesome. The Weponds 
 are fun to use:) This game is very fun to play. The game is really awesome and hopefully i can beat 
 the game soon. By the way EASY achievement points. If you love Guns, Magic, Girls in Skirts then 
 this game is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Not as bad as some people make it out to be. The game has an interesting plot with some good enemies. 
 The Boss fights are decent and the main character is interesting. However the actual graphics need 
 some fine tuning e. g. ability to run through objects as though they werent there. The storyline 
 was interesting and left open for a sequel. Hopefuly the next game, if there is one, should be 
 a hell of a lot better. I like a lot of shooting and destruction in my games and this did deliver 
 especially with the lightning and meteor spells which give some really good effects. The enemies 
 I find pretty entertaining but the most annoying thing about them is the snipers who enjoy their 
 one shot kills a little too much.
  I only paid &pound;17.99 for this so found it good value for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectParadox1
Rating: 6
Date: May 31, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Well i will keep this short, it has a very basic story which i couldnt be bothered to follow and 
 has bliss graphics. Great array of weapons funny looking enamies (although not many types) and 
 destructable enviroments so why did i give it 6. o? well the shooting is very dull and takes an 
 age to draw your weapon and dull close combat (even though i really enjoy using nature to my advantage) 
 and just has you playing for the points. Also the levels have the same sort of thing like defeat 
 this to pass to the next area and stuff like that ,,, well there aint much to say but 300pts easy 
 and about 5 hours long if you are a carefull player and play it safe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: So_Young
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 27, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  I don't understand the bad reviews for that game. In normal times, a so called mediocre games is 
 also mediocre on my books too, but bot this one. For those like me who liked games like Final Fantasy 
 VII : Dirge of Cerberus, this game is for you - the core gameplay is basically the same.
  
  In Bullet Witch you play the role of a Witch (lol) named Alicia in an apocalyptical world. The 
 basic introduction doesnt tell you very much about the story and it can be boring at first, but 
 later on, the story become very interresting and you will want to finish the game to see what happened.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple, you shoot all you see, plus you have some magic power - a good concept 
 for a shooter and its a lot of fun to play too. As you play and finish a level, you gain skill 
 points that you can spend on to boost your vitality, defense, of buy nww magic, guns etc. So its 
 a lot of fun shooting guys and gain some of experience to do it so. Its cool because the games 
 feels a lot like a Capcom game for exemple for the type of Devil May cry for the character developpement 
 and its very good in my opinion.
  
  For the value of the game, its depend if you want the Achievements or not. For me, when I like 
 a game on the 360, I want to have as many Achievement as possible so if you are like me, you will 
 want to replay this - and its fun to replay it too. But for those who doesnt replay games, expect 
 to finish this in less than 10 hours, so its a little short.
  
  For the graphics sure its not great, but for me its OK. The framerate is also not very good but 
 I like it because the game is not pretending to be the next Gears of War for exemple and it just 
 reminds me of the good old days of games when the graphics is not so great, but the gameplay is 
 just plain fun and this game is just like that.
  
  In conclusion, Bullet Witch is a good game for fans of japeneese style shooters and its seriously 
 underrated by many reviews out there. Sure this game doesnt feel like a next-gen game, but hey, 
 this game doesnt cost like a next gen game so what do you expect? Its just a good simple shooter 
 that you will enjoy for the time it last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Under no circumstances should you pay $50 or even $20 to buy a copy of Bullet Witch. Owning this 
 game is pointless as the replay value is really non-existent and even the initial run-through is 
 only good for an evening of play.
  
  But this doesn't mean Bullet Witch is completely without merit. There is at least a few dollars' 
 worth of rental-style fun to be had, most of which stems directly from the game's cheesey-yet-awesome 
 concept. Basically you control Alicia, a demon-connected witch who totes a comically large gunrod 
 (her, ahem, broom ) that acts like an all-in-one FPS arsenal. Naturally Alicia is attractive and 
 wears unlikely, provocative costumes which can be adjusted with some DLC. She also commands some 
 witchy spell powers that allow her to influence combat with, for example, a murder of foe-distracting 
 crows. The spell effects range from adding elemental abilities to her gunfire to calling upon destructive 
 tornadoes to flip enemy helicopters from the sky.
  
  So to summarize: Hot girl with slutty costumes carrying a pretty sweet gun and commanding interesting 
 physics-engine showcase-style spells. To a certain extent, this is a recipe for a winner.
  
  The fundamental problem with Bullet Witch is that most of the potential is squandered on what 
 feels like a very stunted development cycle. For one thing, the game is criminally short, offering 
 just a handful of stages to play though and maybe five or six hours' worth of first-time-through 
 gaming. To a certain extent this kind of works in the game's favor because the novelty of some 
 of the basic game mechanics wears off right about the time the game comes to an end. But even the 
 other elements aren't taken full advantage of: Alicia is sexy but lifeless and utterly devoid of 
 personality. The game tries to pass this off as a by-product of her inherent separation from humanity 
 but there is no clear reason why she couldn't have had some kind of personality, even if she maybe 
 had more of an anti-hero air.
  
  Even the spell effects, as cool as they sometimes are, fail to really deliver in action the way 
 they can easily be imagined from their on-paper description. The fact that some spells are simply 
 greyed out when they cannot be used (probably because the developers didn't code up a cutscene 
 for that area) but given no explanation is troubling enough. But making the whole spellcasting 
 experience clunky undercuts what could have been the concept that really set Bullet Witch apart. 
 Elemental Shot, a spell that gives certain gun types different effects, might be useful but it 
 is such a pain to cast and offers so little obvious benefit because it lasts for such a short time 
 at its initial power level that it will probably just get ignored. That the spell wheel is split 
 into three levels (each level requiring an additional press of a bumper button) and cannot be remapped 
 makes no sense and really hinders what ought to have been the showpiece feature of the game.
  
  Still, in spite of these problems the game has its own sort of charm, mostly in spite of itself. 
 Like a campy horror flick that is more unintentionally funny than scary, Bullet Witch pretty much 
 fails at what it sets out to do but succeeds at being something else altogether, which is a silly 
 and appropriately short action gaming diversion. While the dialogue and voice acting are pretty 
 bad, the storyline is predictable but competently executed and, again, holds more promise than 
 it actually delivers on. The presentation is wildly uneven with some graphical touches being impressive 
 while other aspects feel more PS2 than 360. Perhaps the biggest technical failing is in the ridiculously 
 limited number of models in the game; there are literally less than a dozen enemies featured in 
 the whole of the game... including bosses.
  
  Some low-budget movies require the audience to put up with a bad actor in a key role or ludicrously 
 bad special effects or a very powerful suspension of disbelief for a wild plot element. Bullet 
 Witch is kind of the same deal: You have to approach the game with the right frame of mind to be 
 forgiving of its weaknesses in order to enjoy its strengths. And, granted, most of the strength 
 comes in the form of identifying what parts of the game had the potential to be really, really 
 awesome but are in fact just sort of almost cool.
  
  There is no way to recommend Bullet Witch as a purchase, but it isn't entirely without merit and 
 its short campaign means it has great potential to be a satisfying short-term rental. There are 
 an easy 250 Achievement points to be earned by beating the game on a quick run through on the easiest 
 setting and maybe a few more if you can stomach rolling though a second time on a harder level 
 although many of the game's Achievements are undefined secrets that might require additional legwork 
 to acquire. In the end it hardly matters since only the most dedicated Gamerscore-whore will care 
 to put in the effort for the full 1,000 points. Everyone else ought to have returned the game to 
 Blockbuster (or wherever) and moved on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahkarisazael
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 15, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  When I first went in to buy this game I figured that it probly stunk, but hey, easy achievement 
 points. Well the second part was right, but the first part, not so much. Maybe its the magic, or 
 the gun, or Alicia herself, I'm not sure... but I'm leaning towards the Alicia idea, but I am actually 
 really liking this game. Imagine while playing GRAW that instead of watching a guys a** swing back 
 and forth you could watch a girl in a mini-skirt. Plus you get magic. If you like girls, guns, 
 and magic (preferably in that order) ... GET THIS GAME.
  
  Yes, maybe the AI could've had some work, and the enemys could've been better designed but who 
 really cares. la la la la la la la la la la la... stupid 100 word minimum... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentluap
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 14, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Well after much deliberation if this game was worth getting I decided to get the game on release 
 and to be honest I was quite happy with the purchase after completing the game.
  
  First of all I would like to say I think this game was Underated by a lot of people and was worth 
 more than it has been scored. Like I've said it's far from being a classic game but it was scored 
 lower than it deserves. Bullet Witch's gameplay is a typical Hack 'n' Slash experience. Unfortunately 
 it's not as fast paced as other games in the Hack 'n' Slash genre and this is one of Bullet Witch's 
 main let downs in my opinion. But the slow pace of the Gun and Hack 'n' Slash play is replaced 
 with a great Spell system which is a main selling point for the game and a great part of the games 
 style.
  
  Another part of the game which was underappriciated by other reviewers was the games graphics a 
 lot of them comparing them to last generation graphics. I would say its a lot better than last 
 generation but I would agree its not next generation in comparison the a lot of the other 360 releases. 
 The character design is great also but unfortunately this is let down by the lack of different 
 designs for each charater and it looks and feels like you just fighting the same group of enemies 
 that you fight with throughout the whole game. This is made more noticable when you start taking 
 on the bigger enemies as these are identicle. Also another part of the graphics that made it stand 
 out as not a 100% next generation title was the fabric movement althought it did move that was 
 part where it looked very glitchy and not natural. The environments through the levels where also 
 quite plain and not quite a finsihed and clear as you would hope for on the 360.
  
  The sound on Bullet Witch was intresting and sometimes quite creepy. The wallnut heads moans where 
 creepy in my opinion. The character voices for the Geist Soldiers where comical and in my opinion 
 suited there character type as you could imagine them being like that personality wise. Also I 
 tihnk the sound set the right atmosphere for the game and made it quite an enjoyable experience.
 
  
  The part of Bullet Witch I enjoyed the most was the final boss fight. What a great boss fight and 
 left you with a sense of accomplishment. It last about 45 minutes and I enjoyed every single part 
 of it. The final boss is made better with some great visuals on the character design and also being 
 in restricted confinement makes it that much more enjoyable.
  
  Overall the game is worth playing if you fan of Hack 'n' Slash genre although the game is not completly 
 next gen and far from being a classic the game is an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsaalyo
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 14, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I saw this game on the shelf. Going by my tried and true practice of judging books by their covers, 
 I bought the game knowing nothing about it other than what is says on the box and the fact that 
 the girl on the front was hot.
  
  I don't know why, but I decided to come to Gamespot and see what they thought about it. Needless 
 to say, I was less than impressed by the 5.5 rating. Nevertheless, I decided to give it a chance. 
 Beyond Good and Evil is another game that the professionals weren't too impressed with, but I loved.
 
  
  Let me tell you, I don't understand why people are so harsh on Bullet Witch. My theory is that 
 people don't want to be impressed. There are a select few games out there - the first Splinter 
 Cell, the first Halo... God forbid, the first Mario, that have had a tremendous impact on the videogame 
 industry. I mean, there would be laws in place and polititians in or not in power as a result of 
 the impact those games had on this world. People seem to think that if a game does not affect the 
 world as much as those, it's just repetitive and there's no reason to pay more than $10 for it 
 two years from now when it's in the Greatest Hits bin at Wal Mart.
  
  I admit, there is nothing groundbreaking about Bullet Witch. The graphics are nothing we haven't 
 seen before, the enemies aren't revolutionary, the story wouldn't win an Emmy, etc. But let me 
 tell you: there is more action in the first two missions than most games have throughout. It's 
 all real, hardcore, get the @#$% out of my way action. The spells you start off with aren't all 
 that impressive, but even in the first level you gain access to some more devastating, explosion-causing 
 spells. Then, when trucks are telekinetically thrown at you, which you have to dodge matrix-style 
 so you can call down a massive lightning bolt, you'll fall in love with all Bullet Witch has to 
 offer. Plus, the environments are fully destructible. And not just chunks unrealistically breaking 
 off like chunks of drywall. That tornado you whip up, that meteor shower you rain down, it all 
 rips apart entire skyscrapers individually and in never the same fashion. The rubble you create 
 is all fully interactive as well, by you AND the AI, and will remain forever. No vanishing debris 
 here.
  
  Coming to aid of the near-nonstop action are very vivid, somewhat creepy and disturbing environments. 
 I don't care how cliche and overdone you think messages written in blood on the wall are - they 
 never lose their effect. Running down dim subway tunnels, navigating forests drowned in impenetrable 
 fog, exploring towns and cities populated only by demons and corpses (dead and otherwise) , all 
 of it adds a truly chilling atmosphere to a nightmarish world.
  
  One thing true the harsh critics have to say is the fact that Bullet Witch could have been much 
 better if even just a little more time was spent on it. Bullet Witch hits the nail on the head 
 on all the essentials. Taking in the whole picture, it's one solid, hardcore action game. It's 
 just a lot of little things. It could have been longer would be the big one. The AI of your allies 
 could be improved, though their weapons are so weak and ineffective it really doesn't matter what 
 they do. It isn't that they don't know how to fight - they form teams, they dodge, they duck and 
 fire from cover, they work as an organized military unit - they just get lost easily. You may have 
 to go back and run up to a straggler to get him to follow you again.
  
  As well, there are just extremely minor things that you really have to experience for yourself. 
 Your melee attacks could be improved, as well as the jumping system. Some small points of the storyline 
 could have been expanded on, as well. Nothing that you won't get used to within five minutes, and 
 nothing that robs Bullet Witch of all that it brings to the table.
  
  All in all, Bullet Witch was an impulse buy I do not regret. Okay, so it's not a groundbreaking 
 game like Splinter Cell or Super Mario World. So what? Bullet Witch brings hours of nonstop action, 
 destruction, and carnage so severe you can't help but smile stupidly at what you have just done 
 to the poor surrounding environment. You think you've backed up far enough to evade the destruction 
 you're about to cause, and then you have to run back even further. Your jaw will drop, your eyes 
 will grow wide, and then you'll just laugh with joy. Eat meteor, demons. Taste fear as your soul 
 burns away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuessWhooo
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 10, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is quite the funny one to me. There's a load of glitches and it's very repetitive. There 
 are severla instances where you aim the reticle, it's actively on the target but doesn't affect 
 it for a little while. If you decide to play it on hard, beat it on easy first to get some power-ups 
 and upgrades. When you play on hard your stats will stay in tact. The graphics and spells are the 
 only things that stand out with this game. Im glad I only rented it... Even as a rented game it 
 feels like I spent too much for what was given to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  If you were to judge Bullet Witch off of the first fifteen minutes of gameplay and cutscenes, you 
 would probably be impressed by the high quality of action and storytelling presented. Unfortunately, 
 after those fifteen minutes (which is basically all videos with no actual movement by the character) , 
 Bullet Witch turns into a really terrible game that feels like it does not know what to do or where 
 to go at any given moment. To get an idea of what exactly Bullet Witch is all about, try to imagine 
 a game in which Devil May Cry, Chaos Legion, and Resident Evil are all rolled into oneexcept that 
 game turned out to be complete trash.
  
  Bullet Witch is all about a witch named Alicia, who is half human, half demon, and 100% boring. 
 Dont expect to ever get too attached to her, as the story is uninteresting and never allows for 
 any character development or back-story. To make matters worse, random characters will show up 
 throughout the game to offer help, but they are just as mindless and boring as Alicia, often adding 
 pointless insight to the current situation, such as Hey, there is a zombielets kill it. Be prepared 
 to hear that line over and over again as Bullet Witch offers no respecting form of dialogue or 
 literary sense. Even some of the lines in the tutorial have grammatical errors and missing words, 
 which could cause confusion to most people.
  
  For some odd reason, Bullet Witch never tells you what is going on for the first hour or so of 
 gameplay. After the initial cut scene, your character just appears on a deserted street with enemies 
 who seem intent on killing you for no apparent reason. After making your way past dozens of some 
 of the most idiotic and visually repetitive enemies ever developed, you are greeted by a mysterious 
 red haze floating in the middle of the level which blocks your path to advance. You must eliminate 
 a floating brain-like enemy nearby in order to make this haze disappear. Ironically, this floating 
 brain lacks the mental capacity to notice you or even attempt to fight you when you are nearby. 
 However, he can deter your advancement throughout the level until you defeat him. Dont be surprised 
 if the game feels familiar to you, as you probably played a game like it ten years ago.
  
  Prepare to be haunted by those floating brains because they appear quite often throughout the game. 
 In fact, every level is almost identical to one another, with the player randomly firing at enemies 
 and shooting brains in order to advance. In order to dispose of the enemies quickly, Alicia uses 
 her gunrod, a sort of half-broom, half-shotgun weapon to dispose of the enemy. After every level 
 you will have the ability to upgrade the gunrod to four different forms, some of which alter reload 
 speed and accuracy, but since the enemies are incredibly lacking intelligence you will never find 
 the need to use any gunrod other than the default one you start with in the beginning. If using 
 the gunrod somehow gets too repetitive for you, Alicia can tap into her witch roots and unleash 
 powerful magic spells upon the enemies. While these magical attacks sound cool in theory, the execution 
 is flat-out terrible.
  
  Tapping the either the RB or LB button brings up a mini-menu with the list of spells on it. In 
 order to execute any of these magic spells, you access the menu and use the analog stick to choose 
 which spell you wish to perform. There are no hotkeys or shortcuts here, so expect to get extremely 
 frustrated as you realize that the magic menu takes up roughly half of the screen and you must 
 choose a spell mid-battle. This gets particularly annoying seeing as how the whole point of using 
 magic is to defeat the enemies, not blind your view of them with an on-screen menu. While most 
 of the spells cause some form of destruction, a few spells have Alicia use defensive maneuvers 
 to block enemy attacks and sacrifice her health to help citizens and other players. Later on in 
 the game Alicia will earn the chance to truly unleash total devastation with some of her more powerful 
 spells, some of which can drop meteors onto enemies or have them spinning wildly out of control 
 inside a tornado.
  
  For the times you are able to use those super-powered magic skills, the game feels somewhat fun 
 to play. It is always entertaining to see an enemy fly in the air before crashing down through 
 the roof of a house fifty feet away. However, these moments are scarce and really only appear about 
 once every level, and since there are only six levels in the entire game, the odds of being able 
 to use these abilities are slim to none. To top it off, Bullet Witch hardly looks good at all; 
 the textures are rough, the levels all look the same and the framerate even drops when a lot of 
 enemies appear on screen. Its even more frustrating to note that the draw distance is incredibly 
 small, which makes maneuvering around the levels a real pain since buildings and enemies just randomly 
 appear on screen when you get close to them.
  
  It is really a shame to note how terrible Bullet Witch turned out. The opening cinema and gameplay 
 show what the game is capable of, but ultimately Bullet Witch fails to deliver on any aspect of 
 the game, and feels like it would have been appropriate ten years ago. The game just has too many 
 problems to even consider a run-through, but if you like the subject matter you may enjoy it just 
 a bit more. You should be able to finish Bullet Witch in five or six hoursfour hours more than 
 necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bostonbuzz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Bullet Witch is exactly what I expected and wanted it to be when I brought it home, popped it into 
 my 360, and fired it up. Alicia is a pleasure to watch and control as she sends the crazies back 
 to hell with her arsenal of gunrod weapons and spells. The spell effects are especially nice and 
 can be devastating to the enemies which (no pun intended) I like. Toppling buildings, water tanks, 
 and other objects onto the mutants is fun stuff. Overall there's just enough variety to choose 
 from without getting overly complicated. In addition to having the ability to carry over upgrades 
 from completed levels is the down-loadable content. from Live. These nice touches enhance the replay 
 value quite a bit. It's not perfect but few games are. For me it's a pretty straight forward shooter 
 with a sexy twist. If you aren't looking for a particularly deep gaming experience but want to 
 relieve some stress and take out some more evil scum praying on the innocent check Bullet Witch 
 out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  There is very little to say about this game other than it was just sad.
  
  Graphics are lame, looks more like a N64 game.
  
  The controls are infuriating, I thought my 
 controler was broken.
  
  The camera does all sorts of stupid things that make this game a headache to try and play.
  
 
  Gameplay? Forget about it!! The game just doesnt make any sense at all. The depth of the story 
 is the usual 'end of the world' stuff, and I had no idea what my character was doing or why she 
 was a 'witch' in suburbia and there were silly looking half dead guys everywhere.
  
  Sounds are boring.
  
  All up a very poor effort. I know not all games can be great, but this 
 game doesnt even feel like they were trying. To say it feels unfinished would be an understatement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I don't see why people would like this game, it really doesn't ave that good graphics for an Xbox 
 360 game, and the gameplay isn't really that great. Sure, it's fun for the first few minutes of 
 the game, but then you start to ask yourself, 'Why did I want to play this game in the first place?' 
 And then you either return it to the store or sell it to some loser on ebay who thinks it might 
 be good and comes to the same conclusion as you. Like most games, this tries to integrate something 
 new into its games (In this case the magic) . But like Goldeneye: Rogue Agent and numerous other 
 games before it, it fails miserably. You never really need to use the magic, as the time required 
 to cast the spells takes more time in most cases than it would to solve the problem without them. 
 So all you end up using it for is to take out tanks and other things like that. So, you should 
 definitely not buy or play this game no matter what you hear about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  An attractive woman, a large cannon of a rifle and all of this occurs in a world filled with demons. 
 What more could be desired in a video game plot? Well, solid game play and execution, to start. 
 All of this is bundled in package called Bullet Witch.
  
  For almost two years, there has been reports and updates about this games. For almost a year there 
 was delay after delay of the game hitting the market. Even after all of that, the game still feels 
 incomplete.
  
  The plot is a decent outline, but not really a full story. In game like Gears of War, the story 
 is also more of an outline and not a full plot. Both of these games are third-person shooters. 
 Both are sci-fi style games. How are these two games so different? Well, in GoW, the designers 
 let up a bit on the plot and focused almost all energy on game play. The designers of Bullet Witch 
 could not decide where to put the energy and effort to the game.
  
  The game itself looks great. It has a gritty, horror film look to it. This is the look a game with 
 demons and magic should have. Right from the first level, which takes place at sunset, the lighting 
 and look of the game is established with great lighting and shadow. Demons with human skin hanging 
 off of them. The game goes down hill from there.
  
  The control of the game is similar to most first and third-person shooters. Basic movement occurs 
 with the left control stick and panning occurs with the right stick. Right trigger fires the weapon 
 and left trigger performs a dodge move that looks good in a kind-of way. The problem is that the 
 default settings of the right stick are too stiff and it takes a lot of fine tuning to get the 
 pan control down so it is fluent to move the camera around. The RB and LB buttons bring up the 
 'Magic' menu. This is what was supposed to seperate this game from others. The ability to casts 
 spells and fire a huge gun. The magic just was not well set-up.
  
  Some of the magic includes a magic wall, a move similar to 'The Force' from Star Wars, but it never 
 seems to move anything where it needs to go. There is a spike impaling move that is difficult to 
 aim and then there is the super magic. These are really cool to see. Huge lightning bolts, tornados 
 or huge asteroids. These eat up your magic meter which is recharged by killing things.
  
  Your gun also runs on magic, which is odd, but sort-of fits with the theme of the game. One aspect 
 is that there is never a need to find ammo, the down side is that when the magic meter is low, 
 it is not possible to reload the weapon. This is not the end of the world since the default machine 
 gun uses next to zero magic to reload it. Other weapons are purchased with experience points earned 
 for finishing a level.
  
  When a level is completed, a rank is issued. The rank is determined by how long it took to finish 
 the level, how many things were killed and how many times the Bullet Witch died in the level. The 
 higher the rank, the more points earned. The problem is that no matter how well the level is played, 
 it is not possible to gain all of the upgrades in one time playing through the game. This is frustrating. 
 The game is not enjoyable enough to play the game over and over again to unlock everything. This 
 is not the most frustrating aspect of the game. The real problem is the control of the game.
  
  It is a common situation in the game to have an enemy out of the line of sight and no matter 
 how the camera is panned, the enemy cannot be scene. On top of that, there are snipers that are, 
 at times, impossible to spot, stop or avoid! The snipers will literally stop all game play because 
 it is one-shot kills and the magic wall that is supposed to stop the bullet does not work. Even 
 after beating the game and returning the reted disc, I am still frustrated with it.
  
  This game is not worth owning. It is worth a rent, maybe. This game could have been so much more, 
 but it is just an incomplete game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spotlifetv
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Bullet Witch is a next gen game from Atari that could have been a blockbuster game. It shines in 
 areas of concept, character design &amp; level design. You play as a Witch destroying the minions 
 of evil hell bent on taking over the world as we know it. You are equiped with a Broom modded gun 
 &amp; spells that rain down death and destruction on the enemies you battle. Its Half Devil May 
 Cry &amp; Half empty stages with boring gameplay until you encounter the Geist. The low points 
 of the game that seem to put a grey cloud over it is that the action tends to be boring. The enemies 
 just did not attend schhol meaning they are stupid at times &amp; spread to far &amp; few between 
 the vast stages. The game could have benefited from more in game power ups or break points to power 
 up &amp; more enemies that come in other shapes &amp; forms. That is the main problem &amp; what 
 weighs the game down from being great. Ifthe developers would have added more villians in the stages 
 instead of spreading them out every 12 to 20 feet it would have been more action. There also should 
 have been better weapon selection &amp; possible spell learning in the game. The game could use 
 a bit better collision detection &amp; a bit better feel on the aiming controls. Outside of those 
 two flaws the game is pretty darn addicittve &amp; good all around. I hope Atari takes this IP 
 for another spin &amp; improves on the obvious failures listed. Give us more action &amp; take 
 the boring lonely stages away. reate more in game upgrading &amp; or break points &amp; you are 
 sure to have a hit with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I am unsure why this game scored so low, I had more fun playing it than quake 4. It is a good rental 
 if you already played everything else. Does not take long to beat. Graphics - They are pretty good. 
 About as good as half life maxed out on the PC. In some places even better, like character models, 
 and some effects. The nature effects are cool. Physics - They shine best when you use your tornado 
 power. Insane man. You summon a giant tornado and it destroys everything in its path. Buildings, 
 vehicals, bad guys. Sound - The acting is okay i guess, but there are some nice sound effects. 
 Quality - It is worth a rental if you already beat all the must rent games. I would rent this before 
 quake 4, or that game you play as an indian. Gameplay - The gameplay is old school fun mixed in 
 with some modern concepts. A lot of shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Yevon
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  A few months ago I was really looking forward to this game and when I finally rented it I was throughly 
 disappointed. Here's why:
  
  First, let's touch upon gameplay. This game has an excellent concept and story, but it wasn't executed 
 very well. You are a witch named Alicia who, after being brought back from the dead by her grief-crazed 
 father, dons a persona of a witch who, at any rate, can control some pretty devastating magical 
 attacks. Between all the repetitive gun-fights, you'll build up your MP gauge enough to inflict 
 a few magical attacks that will completely annihilate your opposition. That's basically why you 
 need to experience this game. For those few brief moments when you feel like a god are definitely 
 not worth the $50.00 price tag. Other than that, the game was poorly executed and could have been 
 significantly improved if the game was in production a little longer. Nice try guys, but improve 
 the sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lycergia
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  I picked this up basically because it was sitting next to Lost Planet on a display shelf. It looked 
 cool, a hot looking protagonist with a giant machine gun putting holes in hell-spawn and all that. 
 But, what a disappointment. It was lacking all the small things that could have easily boosted 
 this game beyond mediocre. Lack of variety in design concept and mechanics, repetitive character 
 design, dingy lighting effects, poor physics, lack of complexity in control, boring upgrade system, 
 less than fantastic weapon selection ( a sniper rifle with no head shots?) , etc, etc. The real 
 shame is that the story concept is relatively awesome, but I found myself totally uninterested 
 in striving to follow the story due to the boredom of shooting the same red-demon-army-guys and 
  over and over just to blow up another tank with cheesy looking 
 lightning.
  
  The best parts come through with the audio and sound effects (although not much can be said for 
 the dubbing and scripted dialog) , and the demonic powers concept (really cool idea) . It really 
 sucks that the rest of the game feels rushed and otherwise mass produced.
  
  I still love you Atari... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gauntlet2021
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  An original-ish idea, put a hero in the middle of an apocalyptic fight in the future, but make 
 this hero slightly evil and give her magic powers. The unfortunate thing about Bullet Witch is 
 that it clearly aspired to be much more than it was. First the bad. The physics, while not bad, 
 are very inconsistant. By this I mean that most objects react the way you'd expect when you hit 
 them, but the slightest nudge from one is enough to kill you. Likewise, there are even some objects 
 that have no physics applied at all until you actually attack them, so you move straight through 
 them.
  There is a lack of weapons, but only if you're expecting alot out of the gunfights. But if you 
 prefer to specialise in the magic aspect you'll find that the weapon selection is only a minor 
 setback since there's a nice amount of ways to butcher enemies regardless.
  On the good side, Bullet Witch offers some lovelly semi-evil moments which you can't help but find 
 enjoyable both in gameplay and cutscenes.
  The graphics arn't anything special, but the creativity shown is a nice change from the heres a 
 zombie and heres a spider demon styles. IF Bullet Witch had the final pollish it needed, it would 
 have made a great game, but at least it offers alot of style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tokaithegreat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The shooting aspect is pretty standard. There is no shooting assist like in halo and if the turning 
 speed is set too high it can get pretty hard to aim. The AI can sometimes get a little wonky where 
 the enemy fails to notice you at all but that mainly happens with the enemy giants. The magic system 
 is a pretty cool addition which makes the game stand out more. Some magic spells are useless and 
 others are pretty fun. The more enjoyable spells allow you to spawn tornadoes and call down meteor 
 showers that lay waste to the destructible environments but these spells are not available until 
 you get to a certain level. With some spells you can fling objects killing anything it hits kind 
 of like the star wars force power. You can upgrade your stats which you keep after replaying the 
 game.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics would at least be good if it wasn't for the graphical glitches like objects popping 
 up and the flaky shadows. The tornadoes you can spawn look great and so is the physics of the falling 
 debris when the environment is destroyed. The levels can sometimes be a little spaced out sometimes 
 leaving you walking for a while without any action.
  
  Sound
  The sound is pretty standard but the voice acting sucks.
  
  Value
  This game should have 
 been 40$ instead of 50$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmswps2002
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I am generally really hard to convince when games are really bad. This game however just hit the 
 top of the charts as the worst games I have recently played.
  The game wanted to portray this gloomy hell on earth feel to but did the opposite. The enemy you 
 fight sound like little whiny kids that would not put any fear in me about running around the corner 
 to face them. They are stupid as well. They can't shoot straight unless you stand still which benefits 
 the player but takes away from the challenge. I, like a lot of people want achievements and don't 
 mind playing a game that isn't a top seller to get this. I had to force myself
  to play this game to get them. I still haven't finished it on chaos mode simply due to replay value 
 and am debating on whether or not to do this. I can be spend my time on other games that I enjoy 
 more than this game. The game graphics are absolutely horrible other than some of the cut scenes, 
 voice acting sucks, and music is repetitive and dull. I could constantly critique this games flaws 
 but That would be a long review and this game isn't worth it. The only thing good about this game 
 is some of the spells she casts and that shes pretty hot. Overall don't waste your money or even 
 rent this game. It should have never been made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying, the character is one the best animated video game characters I have seen 
 for the Xbox 360. The sad thing is that they put her in game that has the worst graphics, the worst 
 bosses, the weirdest looking enemies, one looks like Grimace from Mcdonalds, and the ugliest maps 
 I have ever seen. This game makes no sense. It's like they started out with a good idea on Monday 
 but ran out of ideas by Tuesday. This game has only 6 missions! 6! You can quite literally beat 
 this game in 3+ hours. To get all 1000 points they expect you to play through the same game 5 times. 
 Mission 2 is the same map as Mission 6. Boring. Boring. The same monster you kill on Mission 1 
 is there on Mission 6 but with red pants. The only cool thing about this game is the downloadable 
 content where you can change costumes. I particularly enjoyed playing a hot witch in a mummy outfit 
 in daisy dukes and cowboy boots. That's as far as the good ideas go in this game. Every other character 
 was created during drug binges. You have to see some of the bosses yourself to believe the dragon 
 with eyes on it's belly or the Diablo 2-looking final boss with a 3 snake right hand that throws 
 sperm from it's underarm. I'm not exxagerating. Do not buy. Do not rent. Only rent this if this 
 is through Gamefly. You will spend two days with Bullet Witch before wanting to kick her out your 
 house with a tear in your eye for playing the hottest chick in the suckiest game ever. Don't let 
 me say I told you so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmick23
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  i duno what some people have against this game. i havnt been able to put it down since the day 
 i got it. i've beaten the game on all 5 difficulties and im still playing through it all the time. 
 I think a 5.5 rating is pretty harsh. I thought this game was 10x better then lost planet even 
 though i liked that game alot too. Thats just me. I guess this game is more just a matter of preference 
 to people. It seems to me you either love it or hate it. I love it. The only beef i have with the 
 game is that you actually have to pay for the DLC concept missions. but still 20 points is nothing 
 compaired to some of the other games have been charging for therin DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The commercials looked cool and even the beginning of the game was promising but when I actually 
 took control of the main character I knew it was going to be a stiff playing game. The gun is sometimes 
 hard to sight on your opponents and a lot of the time if you try to smack the critters with your 
 gun when they get close you often find yourself of the other side of them swinging and missing. 
 Camera angles could be funny and sometimes it would take forever to just turn around and find the 
 guy shooting you in the back. Also the magic system I thought was hard to use and sometimes at 
 the hight of my button mashing I would hit the wrong spell open myself up to a quick death and 
 back to my checkpoint. This is definitely a renter at best and only kept me interested for a night 
 or two... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solonel
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The introductory movie could have been what was playing if you left the screen idle before hitting 
 start. Instead there's a lame trailer of Bulletwitch which looks like some half assed job. It actually 
 looks like it might have been redone in english from some other language. The trailer for the game 
 didn't look that great to begin with but I gave it the benefit of the doubt and rented it at Blockbuster 
 (because Icon was all out) .
  
  Loading screens... didn't have anything after them to look forward to. Controls aren't that great, 
 it's no Gears of War, that's for sure. Even Lost Planet or Crackdown was more intuitive when navigating 
 around. Aiming isn't that great, didn't stick around long enough to see if there was a story. Oh 
 well. Can't give a negative score? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master__Shake
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  I rented this game thinking, well I put up with Bloodrayne 1 and this game has achievements so 
 I can handle that. The things I'll play for points, it's kinda liek that meatloaf song:.. but I 
 won't do that. I got half way through the 4th stage, yes there are only 5 stages in this complete 
 game. I feels almost as if Atari told Microsoft Just let us release this game, and we'll get out 
 of your hair forever and never make another 360 game... 
  
  Why is is it bad? Well there is only 2 attacks in the game at the begining a horribley inaccurite 
 melee attack and a very weak bullet attack. You can later upgrade your attacks, health, magic, 
 gun type, etc after each stage. Problem is there are only 5 stages. Most of the stages are die, 
 restart fests where it never feels like like you accomplished much. When you get to the end you 
 are graded. Unfortunately the levels are so long it's almost liek going to school and getting 1 
 grade for all your classes a the end of the week. Magic, most of the attacks via magic are worthless 
 however the lightning effect is prolly the best thing goign for this game other than the hot character. 
 The story is non-existant. The dialogue is sub- resident evil 1. The enemies are soliders minus 
 shirts, minus skins and a redneck accent. Moments in this game you just have to cringe at the fact 
 that this game sits on the same shelf and same price point as gears of war. There is somethign 
 wrogn with their render tech where the real time shadows can dissapear as you rotate your camera 
 around. It looks like they are tied to the camera fulstrum. Why, I can't figure. Overall thsi game 
 feels like it needed another 6 monthes in development and somehow sneaked onto the 360 (when this 
 game first came out the recently played icon wasn't showing up on gamer tags) . As someone who will 
 joyfully finish quality games like open season for points I can't even recommend this game for 
 point enthuesests. Most of the points come from finishing the game any all difficulties which means 
 you have to play the game multiple times, which I wouldn't reccomend for anyone other than death 
 row inmates as an alternative to lethal injection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2ndWonder
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  To get my review started i'm gonna point out that this is not a perfect game and any shape or way. 
 Okay to start off, take a witch, give her a goth look, make her hot, give her spells and give her 
 a huge gun. Okay, this sounds crazy but that's what atari made who knows where they come up with 
 this stuff, but to my point.
  Bullet Witch is about a witch who hunts down zombies and giant floating brains, tanks, giant deformed 
 monsters which i have no idea what to call.
  Add some really hard bosses that take strategy to beat and there you have it a decent game. well 
 this is right in some ways and in some ways this wrong. This main suffering point of this game 
 is the glitches, having half-way decent enemies (some are smart, some are really dumb) and not 
 enough weapons as some people say. While the overrall game play is average, the graphics are pretty 
 good for this game, but character collison with some of the objects is glitchy ( you can walk through 
 most of the little objects laying around, such as boxes, poles, etc) . The gameplay is okay, nothing 
 to be shocked at, although it can be dull at some points. The storyline is kinda falls together 
 as you progress through the game. There are six stages full of adventure and shooting the lights 
 out with your gun. As you progress through the levels you are given points to spend on upgrades 
 such as spells or abilites based on how you completed the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  3rd person shooters have the ability to be truly special games. They can produce some of the most 
 dramatically fun titles in gaming.
  
  Bullet Witch, alas, does not meet the standard.
  
  It is, in every sense of the word, a sub-par title. There is nothing the game does terribly 
 well. Targeting is a pain, to say the least. Your character isn't terribly quick. The magic system 
 is not very enjoyable. The graphics are decent, but nothing you've not seen done better in many 
 other games.
  
  I have no idea what Atari was looking for here, but I am hoping that the end result was not it. 
 It was quite difficult to play --- not due to the challenge of the title but due to the tedium 
 of the game. Jumping with shoulder buttons isn't really all that instinctive. The enemies are not 
 all that impressive, displaying both a sheer lack of A. I and redundant visuals. I cannot think 
 of any reason to own the game. Renting the game is a bit of a stretch, to be perfectly honest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommic84
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay then, like others on here, i feel the need to stick up and defend this game.
  
  I actually didn't read any reviews before even buying this game, but boy i wish i had! I remember 
 seeing previews on gamespot a while back thinking that it had the potential to be really good and 
 i liked the idea of having massive spells to cause destruction such as the thunder spell.
  
  So lets start with the story. The game revolves around the alluring Alicia, who as the title 
 says, is a witch. She has her bizzarely big (how can she carry it?!?) gunrod and you basically 
 spend the game shooting down large numbers of zombies. So moving onto the gameplay. The AI you 
 will discover is atrocious, on several occasions i would find a zombie thing stood facing a wall 
 in somewhere like an alleyway.... just stood there facing the wall waiting to be shot. But where 
 the AI comes into play i found, was when there were large groups of them, literally all running 
 at you, if you hide they'll pop round a corner and hunt you down. But the enemies are not overwhelming 
 at all and it's pretty easy to dodge attacks by using her dodging techniques. Alicia has a number 
 of spells and gunrods at your disposal. I found some of the spells simply odd and pointless. The 
 spell system is hard to get used to at first, but when you get used to it having to press the trigger 
 buttons a number of times to find the right spell, it doesn't get too bad after a while. But there 
 are 9 spells in total and i found 4 to be useful, the rest i hardly used. The weirdest one i found 
 was called Rose Spear, whereby Alicia will throw a rose on the ground and then lots of spears will 
 come out of the ground impaling a group of enemies. The problem with casting the spell is that 
 it all just takes too long, for example, witht he Rose Spear, you will press a trigger button twice 
 and then select it with X, you then have to try and aim it at the ground below the enemies feet. 
 This all takes seconds but in those seconds, the enemies have more than likely dispersed or moved 
 making the whole thing pointless. But the one i did find handy was the Raven spell, Alicia will 
 call forthe a massive flock of Ravens and these will attack large groups of enemies on your screen, 
 it won't kill them, but will stop them from attacking you giving you the opportunity to put as 
 load of metal into them.
  
  Moving onto the larger spells. There are three - tornado, meteor and lightning/thunder. The animations 
 before they actual do any damage are simply laughable - the lightning one shows the clouds in the 
 sky with erratic lightning coming into a point and it reminded me of (See if any of you remember 
 this....) but in FFVII there was a summon guy called Ramuh, he was the lightning dude, the cinmeatic 
 reminded me of him and when you summon him. But then after the animations, the destruction is simp [ly 
 overwhelming. The only disappointment i had was the fact that you don't get the meteor spell till 
 the last level of the game, so i suppose the developers were saving the best till last. It truly 
 is a great reason to play the game right through just to see the destructiveness of the meteor 
 spell. Masses of endless meteors come raining down the sky and will destroy skyscrapers. Warning 
 to you though, with this, skyscrapers to come crashing down and i did die a couple of times when 
 a piece of building landed on top of me! The tornado spell is also great, ripping roofs of tin 
 shelters in an army based level and sucking in helicopters.
  
  In terms of enemies, you'll literally be fighting the same faced zombies throughout with little 
 difference. The boss battles do have a feeling of being epic, but still lack any proper finesse 
 or purpose. Bullet Witch is by no means a graphically acclaimed game, there are glitches everywhere 
 in this. When i first started playing, and began to run down this hill in the suburbs, cars were 
 popping up from nowhere and i couldn't believe my eyes! It has problems with it's short draw distance, 
 there are also some bland textures here and there, but nothing major.
  
  I think in conclusion, it is a highly fun game to play, however incredibly short, it took me around 
 3-4 hours in total to complete one time round and i don't feel like it has a replay value. I'll 
 probably pick up and play it for an evening to see what the downloads that have become available 
 today have to offer, but that'll be it. It's definately one for renting, but i do disagree with 
 the slating it has got from it's reviews. It's fun and has some truly great moments in it which 
 must be witnesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Service_Games
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game places you in control of Alicia, a witch raised from the dead who can do things with 
 a rifle (called her gunrod) that a lot of us can only dream of. The concept is quite solid despite 
 what the media seems to think. From the time you press the power button until the final boss is 
 down, this game is all about action. There are times when the game throws so much at you that you 
 honestly just don't know what to attack first to make sure you make it through the battle.
  
  The enemies have a bad habit of standing still while being fired upon, but that's not really 
 their strong point. The lacking AI is the least of your worries when, at times, there are more 
 enemies around you than you can possibly fight off without using some kind of tactical advantage 
 be it a barrier or your Ancient Wall spell. Even then, you'll feel the shake of the controller 
 over and over as bullets rip through Alicia from who knows where. Honestly, does the grunt AI really 
 need to be that good when they are that lethal and their numbers that large?
  
  The Boss AI is a completely different story. Each mini-boss as well as each major boss has a significantly 
 increased AI over the grunts (with the exception of the gigas) , so beware. Boss battles take sound 
 tactics, a lot of practice, and can last a long while. So, when facing a boss battle or mini-boss 
 battle, be ready to take a few lethal hits that put you back at your last checkpoint until you've 
 figured out the system. This can be frustrating, but stick with it as the game is worth it.
  
  Other than some quite jagged shadows at times, the graphics are rather stunning. Does it compare 
 to games that are setting a new bar for graphics? No, but does it need to compare to be fun? The 
 magic spells do a lot of damage, and while the beginning animations for the spells seem to be right 
 out of PlayStation days, the actual destruction scenes are far more intense and definitely very 
 pleasing on the eyes. Watching buildings fall to the ground in real time as fireballs come down 
 from the sky feels almost cinematic.
  
  While there are a lot of good things to say about Bullet Witch, it does have its flaws. There are 
 times when Alicia can be aiming dead middle point blank at an enemy and still miss when she fires, 
 but these small gameplay issues don't take away from the overall experience. For the most part, 
 the gameplay is very solid, and the magic spells you purchase with points earned during each mission 
 are very helpful (esp. Raven's Panic) unlike what some others may think. These spells could end 
 up being the difference between life and death for Alicia.
  
  So, is this game perfect? No. Is it fun enough to be worth the price of admission? Absolutely! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripwireBreach
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Very short! and pretty much the same damn thing over and over. On the other hand it is worth renting. 
 I wouldn't pay more than $29.99 for it. First it starts of easy then gets even easier and when 
 you think you got it down it gets hard as hell. Give me a scope on that sniper rifle and maybe 
 you've got something. The storyline made want to poop. I think this could have been a great idea, 
 if it just spent another 6 or so months in development it could have been as good as the idea. 
 Maybe next time Atari for now stick to Wheel of Fortune! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_Still_Alive
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Yes, eventhough I don't recommend going by someone elses judgements, I am submitting a 'review' 
 because this game is being bashed for all the wrong reasons. Bullet Witch is just an all around 
 fun game. People should stop analyzing every single detail about it and just have fun with it. 
 If you think you might like it but aren't sure, then rent it before you buy it.
  
  My opinion is that the game is great, it's actioned back, the graphics are pretty, good especially 
 the spell effects. Like when casting lightening, the enviormental destruction is absolutely goregous. 
 Your best bet is to just play it yourself, and decide if you like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivoryblaze
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  First off Alicia is one of the coolest lead characters I have seen in a while! Her look, weapons, 
 and animations are awesome. Not only that but she controls the way she is supposed to. As for sound 
 I think some of the one liners she spills when casting spells could have been more original, but 
 the voice actor used was a good choice. I noticed alot of dub errors i. e. you hear the characters 
 voice but the mouth is still moving even after he/she finishes there lines. The baddies have some 
 really funny stuff they'll yell at you during fights which I enjoyed. Other than that though the 
 dialogue during cinemas is downright agonizing, or I should be more specific... Alicia's blond haired 
 ally is downright agonizing. I can't remember how many times I would have just loved to whip out 
 my gunrod and blast him for being such a dork. While were at it he has one of the worst outfits 
 I've ever seen (pssst did I mention he is a wuss when it comes to actual combat) . I would have 
 liked to seen more spells, but you can save that for the sequel. There all fun to use, and the 
 animations prior to each one is really cool to watch. The environments are fun to destroy, and 
 the more you upgrade your spells the more destruction u can cause! Don't forget you can upgrade 
 your gunrod as well too (though the cannon/sniper version is broken i. e. targeting leaves alot 
 to be desired) .... heck you can even upgrade your health points and magic points! There are only 
 6 stages in the game which makes for a short lived story, but we are supposed to get more downloadable 
 levels in the near future which is a plus! Another thing there are alot of things not explained 
 in the story which I found disappointing. Alicia has a voice always talking to her throughout the 
 game... giving her hints or instruction, but they never explain where, or who this person/entity 
 is?? Oh and one more thing the boss battle at the very end needs at least one or two checkpoints.... never 
 have I gone through a boss batter where you spend 30 minutes trying to kill him and then at the 
 last second you die only to have to start the whole thing all over again!! Bottom line this game 
 has alot going for it flaws and all! Now where is that DLC, and sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerrior
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Again I can't say that reviewers don't have a sense of what is good or bad...
  I will just say that I think that the lines might be blurred.
  
  I have grown up with games, 
 since the commodore vic 20 and I can say that the only reason that I have ever played, was for 
 the fun of the game.
  
  I can't say that I have EVER played for the Bump Mapping, or environmental, spectral lighting or 
 the real innovation of gameplay. I, like many other gamers, PLAY FOR FUN. And again I am sorry 
 but there is a time when you need to look at a game for what it is. A means of FUN.. Gamespot, 
 I used to turn to you for an unbiased view, but as of late, I have a hard time believing your reviews, 
 simply because I remembered that Games are supposed to be FUN!
  
  Next gen or not, We as a gaming community should be looking at games for what they are.... GAMES.
 
  
  When you sit too high on your horse, you forget that there are your soldiers fighting your battle 
 beneath your feet.. Gamesspot Get your S*** Together.
  REALLY you pay people to do this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  The Good: Decent visuals, very cool spells you can cast, unique consept, gunrod is cool, storyline 
 is well done.
  
  The Bad: A. I. is extremely dumb, controls a bit clunky, bad voice acting for the most part, no 
 online multiplayer or co-op.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Bullet Witch is a Japanese third person action game that has been brought over to the U. S. thanks 
 to Atari. The game follows Alicia, a young woman who is discovered to be a witch in a post apocolyptic 
 world in the year 2013. Mutated humans and demons now roam the world and it's up to you to end 
 the chaos with your gunrod, which is your main weapon. The consept of Bullet Witch is good, and 
 the actual gameplay is pretty good. You start off with the basic machine gun form of your gunrod, 
 but you can purchase other forms and upgrade them by using experience you gain by beating levels. 
 The basic machine gun can get you through the begining levels easily by itself, but your magic 
 helps set Bullet Witch appart from other generic shooters. You can cast spell ranging from a small 
 blast of air to a devistating lightning storm, to spikes that come out of the ground that kill 
 enemies then light their bodys on fire. These effects are cool and the spells are effective, but 
 they aren't necessary except for select parts of the missions. The game controls alright, but it 
 get's clunky at times. The game is decent, but it has a lot of problems. There are only 6 missions, 
 none of which are very long, and the A. I. is just plain dumb. You can walk up to an enemy and they 
 won't fire most of the time unless you fire first. There is also lots of enemies running into walls. 
 The voice acting in the game, besides Alicia, is pretty bad. There is one character in the game 
 that has a voice so infamous, that Gamespot should make a Dubious award next year because of it. 
 To make things worse, there is no online multiplayer or co-op of any kind. There are supposively 
 going to be downloadable outfits and new missions, but I'm sure most people aren't holding their 
 breath. Honestly, this game isn't as bad as Gamespot said it was, but it does have it's share of 
 problems. I wouldn't recomend buying it, but giving this game a rental is worthwhile. Overall, 
 Bullet Witch is something a bit different, but it misses the mark in several areas.
  
  Gameplay: The consept, magic abilities and gunrod are cool, but the sometimes clunky controls and 
 dirt dumb A. I. hurt the game's overall preformance.
  
  Graphics: The environments and visuals are decent, but nothing spectacular.
  
  Sound: The music 
 is good, but the mostly awful voice acting is pretty bad.
  
  Value: I wouldn't recomend buying this game unless you want to really take your time to beat it, 
 at least not at the current $49.99 price. After a price drop or two, I could see this being a worthwhile 
 buy for $29 or $39.
  
  Final Thoughts: Time to call down the thunder... 
  
  Graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgoku2833
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  My first real big dissapointment. How can you make a game and not have available costume unlocking. 
 Well..... you do... but you have to download the extra costumes. Are you serious!!!!
  
  The character models are pretty good looking. The levels look bland. The first stage has you walking 
 thru what looks like a suburban area. Making your way down to a bridge that leads into the city. 
 The ground troops you fight literally camoflouge with any part of the stage. HD does not help this 
 game much. Story mode is too short. Which may be a good thing, actually. 6 levels all in all, which 
 are pretty long. Fighting the same kind of enemies. There are a total of 4-5 enemy types with different 
 variations. Foot soldier to snipers. Your occassional skyscraping bosses. The control sucks. Plain 
 and simple.
  
  The game feels rushed. One of the things that I did enjoy were the spells. The greater magics look 
 awesome. You are able to charge your weapons with elemental powers such as wind, fire and so forth. 
 Send a horde of ravens to immobilize your enemies when you are being overwhelmed. The game is full 
 of some awesome ideas, but very poorly executed. A word of advice to all you game makers. Take 
 your time. Screw deadlines. Good games pay off. Take your time.... make a hott ass game.... sell 
 copies.... and make money. Don't give us bits and pieces thay you just threw together.
  
  Rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel04061
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by stating that even though there are allot of frustrating things with this game 
 I still keep coming back. Is it really good or am I just trying to justify the $50 that I spent 
 on it to my wife? Read on...
  
  The first clue that this game is going to be crap, excuse me, I mean a hard sell is the camera 
 angle or should I say lack there of. You character (Alicia) stands just about in the center of 
 the screen effectively blocking just about everything there is to be seen. I spent most of the 
 game finding the right angle to point her gun just so I could see. If this isn't bad enough for 
 you, don't worry because one of the stupid AI members will be sure to not only block what little 
 you can see but also let someone shoot you to death while watching as an added bonus. Speaking 
 of AI, this has to be the dumbest, lamest, crapiest that I have ever seen! I mean, I mean, I can 
 see and hear them yelling and allot of shooting and yet they never seem to kill anything? Trust 
 me, if they die leave them at least they will no longer block your view to the game. You can revive 
 them with your sacrafice magic however this only serves to annoy rather than help and on top of 
 it all there seems to be no benefit, no added skill points upon doing so.
  
  Some of the magic is pretty cool though, Willpower, Rose and Raven Panic among the better. However 
 the magic bar can be downright frustrating when there are not enough enemies to max it out and 
 you need to launch some great magic attack to proceed. There was really no balance here. Either 
 I was running around looking for something to kill or simply overwhelmed by the mass numbers and 
 found myself just running past them. There is very little joy to be found here fighting enemies. 
 It's pretty much the same enemy over and over and over again. Allot of kill this thing to open 
 that barrier. Blah!
  
  The skills system while it could be cool ends up really lame. The only time that you can upgrade 
 your weapon/witchcraft is between levels and even when you've finally maxed everything (a minimum 
 of 5-6 play throughs) there's no difference than when you started the game. (Oops, did you suck 
 on that last level? No skills for you!) The biggest joke is when your instructed that you can not 
 fight the final boss (you meet him on the second level, pretty cool too!) because your skills are 
 not ready. So four hours later when I finally got to fight the really cool looking boss, guess 
 what? I was no better of than when I started the game! What?! Seriously, I used the machine gun, 
 period. Duh! No might and magic here, no need to level up . Heck, and lets just top this off with 
 a big pile of holy boring boss fight batman! If you can run back and forth and pull a trigger for 
 a very, very long time then congrats! You've just beaten Bullet Witch!
  
  Bullet Witch is not without its shinning moments though. Fighting a demon at 10,000 feet while 
 running the outside of a moving jet being tackle by floating eye ball things proves to be quite 
 exhilerating albeit downright frustrating at times. Also, the first time that you get to use the 
 meteor storm is crazy fun to watch (just get out of the way) . However, there are more cons than 
 pros here when it comes right down to it so I suggest that if you're curious give it a rental and 
 be glad you saved your $50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I was really prepared to write Bullet Witch off. The reviews I read about the Japanese version 
 of the game werent too favorable so I didnt expect too much when I got my hands on the English 
 copy of the game. Now that Ive spent some significant time with the game, I can honestly say that 
 while Bullet Witch is nothing special, it manages to at least deliver some pretty fun gameplay... as 
 long as it lasts anyways.
  
  The Future Is Now
  2013. Armageddons come. The Earth is decimated by a surprise demon attack and now the total population 
 of the whole planet is less than a billion... which all things considered, isnt that bad. Anyways, 
 rumors soon circulate that theres a human fighting the demons single-handedly, one with demonic 
 powers. Guess what? Turns out thats you... or rather thats Alicia, your avatar in Bullet Witch.
 
  
  The games a shooter and it makes no denial of the fact. Youll be blasting horde upon horde of 
 the demonic invaders through each of the games six stages. Yeah, just six. Not only is the game 
 incredibly linear, its also incredibly short as well. To help you on your merry way, youll earn 
 the opportunity to upgrade your gear and learn new skills as you progress, though the best spells 
 are only given to you at certain points of the game.
  
  The story is as thin as clothing that Alicia wears. While it has the makings of a potentially interesting 
 plot, its never fleshed out and the characters never seem to come into their own. Even by the 
 games end, youll still be left wondering a great deal about what just happened and wished the 
 game had elaborated more... Hell, I just wished the game told me what the hell that demonic voice 
 that spoke to Alicia was... but no such luck
  
  Good, Bad... Im The Guy With The Gun
  Apart from spells, you get the obligatory menagerie of guns; a machine gun, a shotgun, a sniper 
 rifle and a Gatling gun. You can upgrade them with the points you earn from completing stages but 
 apart from the machine gun (and to a certain extent, the Gatling gun) , the rest of the guns are 
 useless. The shotgun is powerful true but by the time you get close enough for it to be effective, 
 youll be hurting from the enemies attacks, especially on the higher difficulties. The sniper 
 rifle? Too slow and cumbersome, not to mention inaccurate (ironic, eh? A sniper rifle that cant 
 snipe) to use to be effective.
  
  Spells are nothing special as well. While some are pretty useful, a couple rarely see use and some 
 dont even seem to serve a purpose at all. The best spells (the ones you get at specific points 
 in the game - lightning, tornado and meteor) are almost worth the price of admission though. Seeing 
 Alicia call down lightning to smite her foes or make meteors rain down from the sky is freaking 
 awesome! Add in pretty destructible environments and youre pretty much hooked. Just play till 
 the last stage, get the Meteor spell and unleash hell and youll see what I mean. Its like the 
 movie Armageddon, in the beginning where are the meteorites fall to earth and destroy skyscrapers 
 and all that debris come tumbling down!
  
  Weirdly (in a bad way) , Alicia with holster her gun when shes not using it, which sucks since 
 she could do it right when youre ambushed, leaving you without a way to return fire for a few 
 seconds. In a game like Bullet Witch, those same few seconds could mean life or death. If I have 
 to die, Id rather it be by my own fault instead of the game deciding that its about damn time 
 to put away my freaking gun! To remedy that, you can use the secondary view (which zooms the camera 
 in up close) but while its fine in most areas, its annoying in areas when you need to have situational 
 awareness since youre pretty much stuck eyeballing the area right in front of you only.
  
  Gimme Some Sugar, Baby!
  Gameplay in Bullet Witch is incredibly straight forward and while that 
 does have its charm, after the third stage, youll probably be begging for a respite and praying 
 to the gods for some deviation. After all, killing some Walnut Heads (floating half-clothed thingies 
 with huge brains) to lower shields to progress and then killing some more to get to the boss does 
 get old after while.
  
  One thing that sets apart Bullet Witch from the crowd of generic cookie cutter shooters is its 
 enemy designs. Theyre pretty grotesque looking (which is great) but the downside is that the enemies 
 are lacking in variety. Youll be seeing the same handful of archetypes the whole game and apart 
 from the different (and very cool!) bosses, theres little to distinguish the stages from one another. 
 
  
  The stages themselves are HUGE! They seemingly go on forever but thats not so much a problem as 
 the game is pretty forgiving with its checkpoints. What the game completely lacks though (and 
 ironically what it really needs) , is a map of some sort. As big as the stages are, youll inevitably 
 get lost and will wander around aimlessly as you try to find where you need to go. Its not helping 
 matters either that some of the stages require to backtrack to previously cleared areas to progress! 
 With the huge surface area you have to cover, running around aimlessly is NOT a fun thing. 
  
  Dead By Dawn!
  Cheap deaths also plague the game, especially when youre dealing with Walnut 
 Heads. These suckers like to float in the sky and levitate cars and then hurl them on to you. Its 
 fine and dandy when you know theyre coming, but sometimes theyll spawn so suddenly that you have 
 no time to gather your wits and dodge before youre buried under tons of cars. It doesnt help 
 matters either that the collision detection pretty much sucks. Ive been killed repeatedly by hurled 
 vehicles even though I was safely behind cover. Ive also survived some direct collisions with 
 flying debris but survived without a scratch. That doesnt seem fair... hell, its not even logical. 
 And yes, since the collision detection pretty much sucks, that means Alicias melee attack is incredibly 
 useless as well. A pity since it looks pretty cool when you do it.
  
  I almost forgot to mention the snipers! These bastards are one of the main reasons I died so much 
 in the game. They WONT miss and if youre hit by the bullets these guys shoot, its instant death! 
 The ONLY way to counter them is to erect a wall (via a spell) to block the shot, which sounds easy 
 but try doing it in the midst of a hectic firefight. By the time you DO get the wall up to block 
 the bullet, it wont matter anyway because all the other enemies wouldve killed you!
  
  The spell selection couldve been more streamlined as well. As it stands you need to navigate multiple 
 menus just so you can fire a simple spell. True, once you remember which spell is in which menu 
 you could cast spells pretty damn quick but the fact of the matter is that casting is not as intuitive 
 as it could (and should) be.
  
  Looks Can Be Deceiving
  Bullet Witch obviously looks good but theres something sterile about the environments about the 
 game, no matter how pretty they are. The areas look good but theres a ton of pop-up in them. Trees, 
 benches, cars... whatever it is, theyll suddenly pop out from nowhere as you move around the stages; 
 especially glaring when youre zoomed in and a car suddenly appears right in front of you.
  
  The games pretty smooth most of the time but if theres a ton of stuff going on at once, be 
 prepared for some uber s-s-s-s-lowdown. The game makes good use of light sourcing too... most of 
 the times. There are some areas where the developers obviously dropped the ball as light sources 
 are pretty much non-existent. Shadows too flicker and fade in and out as you move around, especially 
 in the daytime areas, Stage Four for example.
  
  The game doesnt really have a ton of music in it and the only time the music plays are usually 
 during boss battles or special moments. Thats no big deal anyway since the tunes are repetitive 
 and get on your nerves after awhile. Still, the silence for the majority of the game is irksome 
 so make sure you have some rocking good music ready to stream in. Voices are pretty decent so theres 
 really not much to complain about. The civilian voices are pretty damn annoying though but since 
 you dont really interact with them that much, its an easily overlooked flaw.
  
  Dont Bother Unless Youre Desperate
  Bullet Witch isnt going to remain in gamers memory for 
 long. Its an average game with a pretty look to it but despite its gloss, decent narrative and 
 kick ass monsters, theres really not much substance to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RGILLETTE2
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who recommends this game can't be serious. Maybe its because I am more adapt to the Gears 
 of War but this game sucks big time. I wouldn't even recommend it for a rental. The graphic are 
 completely sloppy and do nothing to exploit the next gen power of the 360! And don't get me started 
 on the frame rate. The movements are choppy and unrealistic at best. The spell casting is cool 
 and I liked the ability to power them up but really that was it. Atari really forgot to realize 
 the we no longer in the 80's ToTo ..... If you want to rent it out first I think you'll be right 
 back at the video store mad as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This was a decent game. It has a few flaws, but im still looking forward to a sequel! (Assuming 
 they improve on what needs to be fixed.) The 360 doesnt really have a game like this yet. I enjoy 
 all the Japanese ports and wish they would keep coming. Japanese art direction is great and always 
 breathes fresh air into our games over here. The game plays a little on the clunky side, but you 
 will get used to it. The graphics seem to be a lot better than what people say. Ps2 graphics..... yeah, 
 what kind of Ps2 do these people have and where do I get one! The physic effects are amazing and 
 the destructible environments are huge. The enemies look good, but they are pretty dumb sometimes. 
 I must say the game is pretty hard on the hardest difficulty and you may want to rip your hair 
 out. Overall the game is worth playing and this is a great foundation for a sequel. I just hope 
 they get it right because I wont be so nice next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis1700
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game a long time, too bad it's so boring, woth only a few minutes 
 play. I'm so glad i rented the game instead of buying it.
  
  The game intro is ridiculous, looks like final fantasy characters without a plot and voice acting 
 is hmmmm.... After the intro we meet our heroine, Alicia, a half human-demon versus a few demons. 
 From now on all the gunfights are identical, just the same lame demons over and over again. The 
 enemies A. I. is terrible, sometimes they just wait to die. We can use some really cool magic moves 
 to slay them in style. We learn new magic moves as we advance, really impressive and essential 
 to defeat some enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puppiemaster
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I'm so glad that for the first time in my life i rented a game from Blockbuster, this game is pure 
 pap, its not work PS2 status let alone 360.
  
  In the Gamespot review it says that there are a few nice moves, from what I saw you would have 
 to be insane to play the game long enough to actually get to them.
  
  This game is only &pound;29.99 at ASDA but that's too much money, wait for the bargain bin price, 
 I'm sure that it wont be long until it reaches that status.
  
  Nothing I saw stands out about this game, in fact it really does disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_catalano
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  It may not be the most graphically sophisticated game but it's Xtremly FUN, witch is the most important 
 factor in a game and the physics are pretty good for the Phys X engine. The original score in the 
 game gives it an epic feel but unfortunately the gun sounds and voice acting are just plain cheesy. 
 Also there is a lot of cool Enemies especially the Gigas. But what makes this game fun is the magic 
 it's original and fun to watch especially the elemental powers like lighting, tornado, and meteor 
 (the best spell) . All in all Bullet witch is a fun game and that is all it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying that this game isnt that horrible however, DONOT buy it. If you 
 are an achievement junky, or just interested in this game, rent it. Im not here to tell you about 
 the story line because frankly, I dont care much about story lines in games. So, lets talk about 
 the graphics. They are not that bad but could have been much better with more time. The explosions 
 are pretty cool, but after you have used the few magical effects that this game offers, it gets 
 a been there done that feel pretty quick. The music is ehhhhhhhh, not the best but not to terrible. 
 The gunfighting gets so boring after an hour.... that you get a no real feel of urgency or having 
 to take cover or that the enemy A. I. has even the slightest clue to what the hell they are doing. 
 There couldnt be anymore of a linear feel to a game as this one presents. To end on a good note 
 there a few cool things in this game. Gaining strengths in your magic and unleashing them on the 
 enemy are like I said pretty cool, quite visual, and very explosive, but repetitive after a bit. 
 The enemy A. I does say a few funny things when they are on their way out or when a close buddy 
 of theirs dies. To me this game falls into the could of been category. I think this game would 
 of been much better if it had a Crackdown, Lost Planet feel to it, rather than no feel at all. 
 It would of been nice to collect items along the way to gain skills or have the ability to jump 
 far and high and not be so restricted to movements, I mean come on she is a witch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirion
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Looking back at prey or quake. What makes these any better? Sorry Gamespot but 5.5 is a bad joke.
 
  
  So I say if you've enjoyed any shooter of the last three years I know u will like BW. The Engine 
 looks ok for me, the spells are the best thing of the game. The game becomes better after each 
 mission .
  Ive played better and I have played worse, overall it will keep you entertained and there is lots 
 to do, its a good game but not a great one!
  Happy Gaming
  So I say if you've enjoyed any shooter of the last three years I know u will like BW. The Engine 
 looks ok for me, the spells are the best thing of the game. The game becomes better after each 
 mission .
  Ive played better and I have played worse, overall it will keep you entertained and there is lots 
 to do, its a good game but not a great one!
  Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagusMaleficus
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Bullet Witch = crap.
  
  I hate to be so blunt in my reviews; but for this piece of poo, I must. Bullet Witch feels unfinished, 
 full of easily-fixed bugs, a terribly shifty frame-rate, and a very boring story. It almost feels 
 like a 1980s arcade shooter, with unpolished graphics slapped on for the hell of it. Sadly, the 
 graphics are kind of nice, if a little rough around the edges (seriously, just look at the twitchy 
 shadows - and don't forget the frame-rate) . I'd say more about this total let-down of a game, but 
 I really can't stomach it anymore. I couldn't even finish the game - that's how much I disliked 
 this effort by Atari and Cavia, Inc. No, I think I'd rather move on to something with some actual 
 substance. It's a damn shame... I really like witches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante25
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed review for this game and wasn't sure on how good it was gonna be but i rented it and 
 i gotta say that its pretty good. if ur a fan of Devil may cray or any of those shooters then this 
 is a good game to pick up. It's missing some elements to make it a awesome game but its pretty 
 good and i wish that there was more magic and guns to use but thats fine. i think that gamespot 
 gave it too low of a review, if u like shooters make sure to pick this up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILikeGames001
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Story ~ Bullet Witch is about earths future in the year 2013. The background story is that in 
 the future, the world suffered many terrible disasters that reduced the population of the earth 
 drastically. On top of that, an army of demons roam the earth to kill off humans. No one knows 
 what caused the demons to come, nor does anyone know how to stop it. This is where Alicia comes 
 in, the main character of the game. At first, all you know of Alicia is that she carries a big 
 gun and she can do some spectacular magic. Throughout the game you learn of Alicias past and you 
 learn of where the demons come from.
  
  The above is pretty much all there is to know about Bullet Witch. The overall game is impressive 
 despite the ugly reviews roaming around.
  
  Pros:
  ~ Good story that will keep you interested.
  ~ Fun magic system. You can use some pretty cool 
 magic such as creating a tornado that eats up everything in its path, or you can call upon a barrage 
 of crows that will distract your foes so that you can take them out easily.
  ~ Upgradeable guns, magic, and stats. At the end of every stage, you are awarded points that you 
 can use towards upgrading magic, guns, and stats. At the end of the game, you can become somewhat 
 powerful, but I believe you can play through the game without upgrading much.
  ~ Fun difficulty. Some parts are hard, which others are not. Overall, the game produces enough 
 difficulty that will keep you on your toes, but not so bad that you will become frustrated. ~ Giant 
 enemies. You can fight some cool enemies that will literally shake the ground when you kill them.
 
  ~ Cool environment. You can blow up cars, gas stations, you can toss cards, and the overall the 
 physics are really good which makes the game fun to play. ~ Downloadable contents. I dont have 
 xbox live, but I think I might get it to get some concept missions which extend the story. Also, 
 you can download costumes on live.
  ~ Awesome locales. You can fight on top of a jumbo airplane at 10000 feet, and then fight in a 
 subway with crazy screamers. I am very pleased with the locations of the game and it makes it a 
 lot fun to play.
  
  Cons:
  ~ Lack of enemy variety. This isnt really annoying, but it can get to you that there arent many 
 enemies to fight.
  ~ No costume change. I think you have to download the costumes on xbox live when it becomes available. 
 Theyll probably charge you for it, which is a great marketing idea if its true.
  ~ Lack of AI. Throughout the game, you can dodge a lot by doing absolutely nothing. When an enemy 
 is shooting at you, you can jump left and right and completely dodge everyone of its attack. Also, 
 you can save civilians by killing the enemy that is shooting at them, but you can literally run 
 up besides them and they will do nothing but keep shooting at people who are already on the ground.
 
  ~ Shortest game ever! I literally beat this game in 4-5 hours. If I remember correctly, there 
 are only 5-6 stages to go through. The game is very short.
  
  Overall, I am pleased with the game. However, I must admit that like Tomb Raider, Bullet Witch 
 would be doomed without a hot main character. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes action 
 games mixed with a hot main character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REX-BLASTER
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  when you play a game, you want a good game and you deserve a good game.
  
  this is a simple game, you must go and kill em all, protect the civilians (i hate when they run 
 to the Enemy) and increase you magic powers (weapon upgrades, magic, health, ets) . but it is fun, 
 less when you finish a mission i HATE the effect of newspapers.
  
  We must be honest, i prefer play this game only for the style of game and the costume options, 
 than play a bad game (f. e. a. r) or a boring game (N3) .
  
  this is not the game of the year (the game of the year must be Halo 3) but is a really cool game, 
 an Alicia is a hot Chick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Some games win you over the second you boot them up, some games need you to give them a chance 
 to grow on you... enter Bullet Witch.
  
  First things first: No Bullet Witch is not as bad as most reviews make it out to be. In fact it's 
 pretty good. Does that mean it's so utterly awesome you should trade in your copy of Gears of War 
 to get it? No ofcourse not. But in this releasedrought we're having at the moment it's a very nice 
 snack at the very least!
  
  If you want to know what makes this ripped-apart-in-the-media-game actually fun to play read on:
 
  
  It's not the story, heck it's not the graphics, it's the physics-engine is where the game shines. 
 Combat looks and feels like combat. Heavy explosions send things flying across the screen, watch 
 in awe as a tornado spell just rips a silo apart, brings down entire contstructions and destroys 
 overhead helicopters. When you slay a giant that falls on his back the screen shakes and a shockwave 
 sends debris and cars etc flying up.. It looks very cool !
  
  You also get control over the physics ! To explain what I mean.... One of Alicia's powers is a telekinesis 
 push, a force-push if you will. She streches out her hand and an invisible wave tears through anything 
 in front of you sending it flying across the screen.
  
  This simple low level spell is actually one of the better ones in the game. And crazy fun to use
 
  
  With this you will be force throwing debris, crates, cars and even complete 18-wheeler trucks onto 
 enemies. It looks awesome !! And more importantly, it's great fun and never get's old. The game 
 gives you a lot of stuff to throw around, try throwing a car into a gasstation and see what happens.. 
 force push a semi into a group of enemies, break crates and dumpsters on enemy heads it's all there...
 
  
  Also the basic gun -rod has a great sound to it, it sounds like the vulcan canon on the helicopter 
 in GRAW. Which makes pulling the right trigger pleasing on the ears !
  
  This game is a typical make your own fun kind of game. By that I mean that you don't necesseraly 
 need all the different guns and spells you get to take out enemies. It's possible to finish the 
 game with just the basic gun-rod. However if you take the trouble to try out which spells you like 
 best and throw those in the mix with your gunplay the combat can be VERY entertaining !
  
  breaking it down:
  
  Graphics: A mixed bag, the very first level of the game is downright bland 
 looking.. but later levels like the Forest levels look awesome, very detailed, great drawdistance, 
 lot's of action onscreen, with a framerate that doesn't drop once etc etc.. so it's hard to rate 
 the games graphics. Overall I'd say: 7.5 Gameplay:
  Like I said above, if you a the type of person that's likes to be taken by the hand and told what 
 to do or use in games than you will not like this game. If you have a healthy imagination and like 
 to experiment with what's possible in a game than you'll have a great time
  
  Sound:
  Voiceacting is cheesy but soundeffects are right on the money !
  
  Overall: It's hard to say 
 how I will look back at this game a month or two from now but right now I can tell you I'm having 
 a great time with this Witch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddcrusoe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  OK graphics are sometime impressive and sometime bad. Ok music is dull. OK it's a little short 
 and there is no multiplayer. But believe me, this game as a lot, A LOT OF TRILL! Each episode (7 
 in total) is quite different from the others. Could you imagine shooting flying monsters from the 
 top of a 747 plane?! Using magic is great (you can throw a car in the air rigth in the face of 
 a skeleton) and very easy to use (even if you have nearly 10 differents spells) .
  
  So 9 for the gameplay, 10 for the trill and, at least, it's far better than Lost planet... so let's 
 go for a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garethross
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Atari once again venture into shooters and fall below the bar whier they left of with Test Drive 
 Unlimited. This game has poor water effects, down right bad draw distance, poor clothing movement 
 over her body is down right shody, and when smoke appears in the game is terrbile and makes it 
 near imposible to fight back.
  What does keep me playing is that its fun to shoot these guys and here thier remarks as you go 
 arround but some when you die just sound perverted. even on normal difficulty it's just to easy 
 except the boss fights which dramaticly change in difficulty.
  The sound is clear and well timed with countless normal humans going round and not getting in your 
 way with sometimes usefull bits of info and others just waste thier voice. The music is perfect 
 for each section, though the sound when the barriers of the game are removed are someone tame and 
 don't sound special at all.
  
  This game is worth the rental and may be a lower price tag would help remove this terrbile feeling 
 after you've finnished this game.
  
  A must for all gamers who like to see girls fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clubside
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  There are spoilers here so skip this if you don't want to know some details. I just finished it, 
 and while I think most reviews were pretty harsh, overall it's not great. I enjoyed the shooting 
 like most people and thought the graphics were decent (running 1080P on a Samsung 61 ) , many of 
 the textures were hi-res and there was a lot of detail on many of the objects, especially Alicia's 
 gun. A couple of the boss fights were original. Bullet Witch is nothing if not an average third-person 
 shooter, though I'm giving it a 6.5 so that's a little below average.
  
  What's bad? The spell casting inteface, which also doesn't pause the action when brought up. Lots 
 of tims you end up running around without a clue of where to go next (always ends up being a tiny 
 area that from a distance you thought woul be a dead end) . Pop-in is awful, in one spot there's 
 a basketball court and one of the nets disappears when you're just past mid-court. Spell effects 
 are inconsistent: why is the more powerful Tornado unable to lift tanks? Why can you push some 
 large objects yet other slightlysmaller ones won't budge? The destruction of the meteor shower 
 is quite nice to look out, but watch out for funky physics sending debris on your skull. The final 
 boss is a drawn out, tedious pain. It's on the same level as the sequel to The Suffering where 
 it just takes forever. Like many 360 games it has a painful memory interface: look, if I only have 
 one storage device, don't make me pick it, or at least remember my pick, and don't keep asking 
 if I want to load or turn on autosave. We'll skip the normal voice work complaints and go to the 
 story: you find out you're the cause of the whole thing yet you keep treating everyone around you 
 like crap? While there is downloadable content coming I'm not sure of the replay value, I don't 
 want to deal with that end boss again. Oh, and your upgrades are based on your score which has 
 a number of variables that aren't really explained so how are you supposed to know what to work 
 towards? And with time being a factor, the what do I do next running around can really burn you.
 
  
  Despite all these things the game is probably worth a rent if you enjoy shooters and some mass 
 destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is realatively easy but there are certain enemies that are a one hit kill type. 
 Snipers pick you off from far away with deadly one shot, one kill accuracy. Boss enemies are boring 
 and glitchy. This game should never have seen even a bargain bin as far as i'm concerned. I haven't 
 been this disappointed in a game since Over G Fighters. The way i break it down is the story is 
 unfulfilled, the achievements are not worth getting ..... playing the game threw twice would be 
 a nightmare, the graphics would be considered ok for an old xbox title let alone a 360, and last 
 but not least the AI is pathetic and/or glitchy. All in all, if you bought this game your going 
 to be let down, if you rent it you may find some use for it if your a hardcore gamer. Its games 
 like this that rob the gamer community of their hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  the bran ATARI announced this game like a great game in this year but If you play and finished 
 the game you will apreciate that is not a good game at all this is the review.
  
  Story: the story its simple and not original, The worl its invaded by demons and you will save 
 the humankind; there are hundreds of games with this story but the original part is that you are 
 a witch beatifull by the way and you carry a broom taht is a weapons too in four forms. Yuo must 
 kill the demosns trough 6 stages too short and sometimes repetitive.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay its dull the weapons are not original and ther are not variety of tha broom 
 weapon, the thing that saves the gameplay a little is the spells tha are 9 total and you can upgrade 
 in the game compare with your skills. the enemies are the same allt he game so If you dont like 
 the soldier demon you will confrotn him all the game and sometimes its boring kill the same soldier 
 all the game.
  the enviroment its good you can interacte almost every thing of the enviroment include destroy 
 it.
  
  Difficult: Its a very easy game so every player can finished tha game the difficult its easy because 
 the variety of enemies its too short so when you a re in 5 stage you know very well how to kill 
 the demos soldier.
  
  Frame rate: The frame rate is desperating when you use the spells because all gets frame by frame 
 and sometimes you will get angry because of this. only this moment its when the frame rate create 
 troubles.
  
  Graphics: the motor engine of this game its regular because the textures mounted in the game are 
 so flat and sometimes you think tahta you are in the anteriro generation games, the light and shading 
 its so good I think that the game team build a better light and shading to compensate the flat 
 textures and get some volume in the shapes. the contrast and brightness are regular is not too 
 much contras like gears of war its little contrast to dont flat more the textures, so in general 
 the graphics are regular there are not amazing like another games but are nice. the big defect 
 is the flat textures that you can aprecciate time to time.
  
  Sound: the sound is nice specially when you destroy everithing and the effects are son detailed.
 
  
  Music: the music its not good in fact you note that the game has music when you are in 4 stage 
 or more.
  
  Online: the mode online is the best part opf the short game so if you are online gamer yuo will 
 like the game but if you like more the campaing mode you will be very dissapointing, the mode online 
 are very nice so I recommend get online play its the best on bullet witch.
  
  Conclusion:
  Dull gameplay few design of enemies, very short game, good sound, bad music, excellent 
 online mode. Its not taht the players expected but I recommend rent it first but If you are a truly 
 fan get it, but if you dont donmt get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuna08
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  (Note this review is based on the Japanese version of Bullet Witch. Any changes in the English 
 version will not be mentioned, thank you)
  
  What can a woman do with a giant gun? Defeating terrorist and save the world? It ain't that easy. 
 AQ Interactive bring players to a time in 2012. It is a time where over 1/3 of the human population 
 is dead, due to war, disease and unknown creatures. The chaos was started by a professor, who tries 
 to revivehis wife from death 6 years ago. Now, his daughter stands up to put a stop to this chaos. 
 Her name is Alicia.
  
  Players will take control of Alicia throughout the game, togeher with some Resistance soldier NPC. 
 On the top right corner of the screen indicates your HP, EP and bullet rounds.
  Like all action shooting games, your HP will decrease when you take damage from enemy, but it will 
 auto-recover after some time. However, one hit from any vehicle or sniper will kill you instantly. 
 EP gauge will only fill up to max, if you defeat an enemy. It decreases when you reload your gun 
 or using magic.
  
  The giant gun will be your primary weapon, and 10 collateral magic attacks, including Ancient Wall, 
 Sacrifice, Raven panic etc. There are also 3 Major Magics to deal Major damage: Thunder, Tornado 
 and Meteor. Unfortunately,
  players are required to fill up their HP/EP gauge before casting Major Magics.
  
  There are 
 6 stages in this game, running from the city of America to the sewers, country side areas and heart 
 of the forrest. It takes approximately 1 hour to complete a single stage. After every stage, you 
 will be graded and given points. Use these points to unlock Shotgun and Rifle, also new magics 
 and stats. Major Magic can be obtained automatically in later stages.
  
  If you died middle of the game, it sends you back to the last checkpoint, and the good thing is, 
 it only take several minutes to return where you left off. Simple and easy.
  
  Beginners may find aiming at enemies is hard, due to big cursor and small aiming areas. But when 
 you get the hang of it, its pretty easy.
  
  AQ interactive made some good character models and area atmosphere in this game, especially Alicia, 
 thanks to Nabatame Hitomi for giving her a matured voice. However, physics seemed over-done a little, 
 but still it is nice to have. What really missing in this game is vehicle, you can blast most of 
 them,
  but you can't use it. Players are required to walk from the beginning until the end.
  
  There 
 are more than 10 types of enemy including boss. They usually come in small numbers, but don't underestimate 
 them. Blind fire without keeping an eye on your HP may be fatal. Boss fight settings are pretty 
 interesting, I can ensure you'll be amazed.
  
  If you get bored with Alicia's outfit, there are some extra ones in Xbox Live Marketplace. There 
 used to be 5 of them, but somehow, they removed 3 old ones. There are also some Concept Missions 
 up for grab. These are optional missions for players who can't get enough of the game. They aren't 
 related to the main story though. Unforutnately, there is no Xbox Live match.
  
  Archievement points are easy to gain here, finishing each stage gains you some points, and beating 
 the game in different difficulty gains you more points as well.
  
  Bullet Witch may be one of those normal action shooting game, but it is fun to use a female character 
 and shoot around with 80 rounds giant machine gun. I strongly recommend to ARPG fans. A great job 
 from AQ Interactive. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
