-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Burnout Revenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/burnoutrevenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great sense of speed.
 Amazing sound effects.
 Exciting online action.
 Lengthy single-player component.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional frame rate drops.
 Too much track repetition.
 Checked traffic sometimes bounces around like it's weightless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.9, 76 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 5,224 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Criterion Games
Genre: Racing
Date: Mar 7, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The racing in Burnout Revenge is more intense than ever on the Xbox 360, but there's probably not 
 enough new to get you hooked if you've played it elsewhere. 

  Six months ago, EA and Criterion released the fourth game in the Burnout series, Burnout Revenge. 
 The game made some interesting refinements to the Burnout formula and was, generally speaking, 
 totally radical. Now, Burnout Revenge is making an appearance on the Xbox 360 with better graphics, 
 a bevy of new sound effects, and a few minor tweaks and tunings that tighten up the whole game 
 a little bit. If you're late to the Burnout party, this is a great time to get involved and bust 
 up some cars. But if you've spent the last six months playing Burnout Revenge on the Xbox or the 
 PlayStation 2, there probably isn't enough new content here to get you excited all over again. 

          Burnout Revenge keeps track of your online rivalries, so you know if you have history with 
 another driver.     

  Before we get into a description of what Burnout Revenge is all about, let's cover the new stuff 
 in the Xbox 360 version. This one brings back full replays of each race. You can scan through the 
 replays using basic, VCR-like controls and even clip and save 30-second snippets of your replays. 
 You can then share these clips over Xbox Live, and there's a whole online clip vault, complete 
 with rankings for the most-watched clips. Unfortunately, your camera control over the action is 
 limited to a few preset viewpoints. A free-roaming camera option probably would have made this 
 feature a little more entertaining.  

  Back on the Xbox and the PS2, crash mode started out with a golf swing-like meter that required 
 you to hit buttons while the meter was in proper zones to get the best start. It was a neat idea, 
 but it eventually led to you restarting right away anytime you didn't get that best start. On the 
 Xbox 360, you get the best start every time, automatically.  

  The most obvious overhaul in this version of the game is in its presentation. The graphics have 
 been given a nice bump up to bring them more in line with "next-generation" standards. The car 
 models look nice and, most importantly, blast apart into a billion tiny pieces when they crash 
 into stuff. For cars that are constantly crashing and getting dented up, though, they look a little 
 too shiny. That said, the game's Xbox and PS2 roots show a bit, so the game doesn't look quite 
 as impressive as some of the games that were developed from the ground up for Microsoft's new console. 
 Additionally, the game looks overly dark on some display setups. The sound was one of the high 
 points in the older versions of the game, and it's been vastly overhauled, as well. You'll hear 
 every little scrape and bump. The engine noises are loud, and when you kick in the turbo boost, 
 it sounds like afterburners kicking in. Even stuff like the noises that are made when you earn 
 medals or time ticking down has been completely changed. The sound was already awesome, but the 
 changes made to the 360 version make the action sound even more satisfying and dramatic.  

  The final and most significant change made to this version of Burnout Revenge affects its online 
 play. As the game puts it, the online mode has a "long memory" for rivalries between players. As 
 you take out other players in online events, the game starts to keep a tally of how many times 
 you've caused a player to crash. That player then sees you as red on their player list, knowing 
 that there's a score to be settled. But it all works in streaks, so if you bust someone up 20 times, 
 they'll still only need to get revenge on you once to settle the score. This doesn't really make 
 a huge change to how you play the game, since your ultimate focus is still on winning the race, 
 but the way the game calls attention to other players makes the revenge aspect of the game much 
 more interesting.  

  Like all Xbox 360 games, Burnout Revenge has a series of achievements that trigger the console's 
 gamerpoints system. This game has a lot of separate achievements to get, some of which are as simple 
 as uploading or recommending a replay clip. One achievement asks you to settle the score with one 
 online opponent 100 times. So if you're hoping to get the full 1,000 points out of this one, it'll 
 probably take you some time... or at least some online accomplices willing to let you win.  

  So if you're already familiar with Burnout Revenge on other systems, that's all you need to know. 
 The changes are interesting, and if you're looking to play more of the game, this is the version 
 to play. An additional race course or two would have been nice, but as it stands, it's probably 
 not different enough to get you hooked on the game all over again. But if you aren't already intimately 
 familiar with Burnout Revenge, there's more you need to know.  

  Burnout Revenge is the fourth game in a racing series that has put its focus on extremely high 
 speeds and gnarly, car-disintegrating wrecks. You'll spend most of your offline time crashing your 
 way through the world tour mode, which presents the game's different events while you work your 
 way through multiple ranks, unlocking additional events and cars along the way.  

  The primary split is between crash events and races. Crash levels put you in a very specific spot, 
 with traffic laid out ahead of you. It's your job to figure out where and when the optimal crash 
 spot occurs and then crash your car accordingly, which usually sets off an insane chain reaction, 
 resulting in ridiculous and glorious multivehicle pileups. Your goal varies from level to level, 
 but it's always a dollar amount, so you'll have to cause as much damage as possible to reach those 
 dollar amounts. Helping you to cause as much destruction as possible is the crashbreaker, a cool 
 addition that lets you blow up your car once enough havoc has been wreaked. In some levels, you'll 
 be able to pop off two or three crashbreakers in one attempt, if you're especially good at causing 
 mayhem. The crash mode isn't quite as white-knuckle as the races are, but it's still pretty exciting. 
 The Xbox 360 version has much faster load times than the previous versions of the game in crash 
 mode, which makes retrying each event again and again to cause the most destruction possible more 
 pleasant.  

          Crash events focus on causing huge pileups, while races have you bashing your opponents 
 into walls for more boost.     

  Racing is the more visceral, heart-pounding side of Burnout Revenge. You'll get into a few different 
 types of events as you go through the world tour. Standard races pit you against five other cars. 
 Road Rage events tie your progression to how many opposing vehicles you can take out before time 
 expires or before you destroy your car by wrecking too many times to continue. Eliminator races 
 cause the last-place racer to blow up every 30 seconds until only the winner remains. Traffic attack 
 gives you cash and extra time when you bash into traffic that's moving in the same direction as 
 you are. Burning laps and preview events are time trials that put you in some of the game's fastest, 
 most-difficult-to-control cars. Some of the races are offered in a crashbreaker variant a little 
 later on in the world tour. This feature lets you bring the exploding-car action of crash mode 
 into the races, giving you the tools to take out opposing racers if you happen to crash near them. 
 All of the race modes force you to drive in a risky manner. You earn boost faster if you're driving 
 through oncoming traffic, whizzing past trucks, and skidding around corners. This sort of forced 
 danger, combined with the exciting back-and-forth battles with the other racers, is what makes 
 Burnout so thrilling, and it's never been more exciting than it is here.     

  The world tour front end is more complicated than it needs to be. It starts out with one section 
 for each rank. Each rank has a list of locations, and each location has a list of races. Sounds 
 straightforward, right? But sometimes you'll unlock races in previous ranks while working up in 
 higher ones, especially if you're focusing on crash events over race events, or vice versa. So 
 you won't consistently move up to the higher ranks, as you'll constantly have to dig through the 
 other ranks in search of events that you haven't completed yet. Additionally, the game seems to 
 run out of new tracks and crash environments about halfway through. You'll race every single type 
 of race on every possible track, both forward and backward. After awhile, it starts to get a little 
 repetitive, but with each new rank, you do uncover a few new twists.  

          This picture can't properly convey how dramatic the game's sound effects are, so go watch 
 a video or two.     

  Your choice of cars has also been made a little tougher. In Burnout 3, everything was spelled out 
 for you right away. Each race fit into a class, and the most recent car you had in that class was 
 usually the right one to use. Now, each car is rated in its top boost speed, its weight class (which 
 tells you how likely it is to get pushed around the road by other cars, as well as how it handles 
 around corners) , and its crashbreaker force. When you unlock a new car, there's no guarantee that 
 it'll be your new best vehicle, so selecting a vehicle takes a little more thought than it probably 
 needs to. More often than not, though, the right-most car on your list is the one you'll want to 
 use for races.  

  In all the single-player races, you'll go up against artificially intelligent racers that are governed 
 by a very rubber-banded system that's intended to keep races close. This is usually the part that 
 forces racing-game fans to turn away in disgust, but considering that the whole crux of Burnout 
 Revenge is slamming into the other racers and fighting for position, the game absolutely needs 
 this sort of AI system to work at all. As a result, you can expect to always have racers around 
 you, creeping up on your back door when you're in the lead. In later races, the other cars get 
 mean and really start trying to take you down. But on average, they're never too much to deal with. 

  The game allows for split-screen racing, including crash battle, where two racers play crash mode 
 at the same time on the same track. But really, if you're going to play Burnout Revenge with more 
 than one person, you want to play it online. Here, up to six players can compete in most of the 
 single-player race types. Road rage becomes a team event online, with one team trying to finish 
 a race while the other tries to take down the racing team. Crash battle and other variants of crash 
 are also available online, but without the overview of the junction before you race, you'll have 
 to go out of your way to memorize each pattern from its name alone. The racing and road rage modes 
 are quite exciting online, and the addition of traffic checking really makes a difference.  

          Burnout Revenge offers a lot, but this version isn't much different than the one that 
 came out six months ago.     

  It's been said before, but it's worth repeating: One of the most important things a racing game 
 can do is properly convey what it feels like to be driving at ridiculously breakneck speeds. On 
 the graphical side, it's several parts frame rate combined with a dash of great blur effects -- perhaps 
 with a little camera shaking thrown in for good measure. As simple as the formula sounds, most 
 racing games fail to get it right. Despite a few spots where the frame rate takes a noticeable 
 drop, Burnout Revenge is still the game to beat when it comes to delivering that feeling of flying 
 around corners and through alleys at speeds north of 200 miles per hour. But this game isn't all 
 speed with no substance. If you manage to stop for a second, take a look at the car models. They're 
 not only incredibly smooth and shiny-looking, but also extremely cool car designs. Burnout might 
 not be able to get licensed cars in the game, but with modern and occasionally flashy car designs 
 like this, you almost wish someone would put them into actual production. Similarly, the environments 
 look sharp, with terrific textures and great effects. Crashes and collisions have, obviously, been 
 given special attention. Cars blast apart in even more dynamic ways this year, and explosions are 
 truly terrifying.  

  While Burnout Revenge might not have enough new stuff in it to drag you back in if you've been 
 playing it on other platforms, this is definitely the version to get if you're shopping around. 
 It delivers solid, fast action, both online and off, and is easily the fastest, most exciting racing 
 game available on the Xbox 360.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (330 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Most racing games have you trying to dodge crashes and hitting your opponents. In Burnout Revenge, 
 your entire goal is to create as much mayhem as possible. 
  
  We have damn near every racing game for the XBox 360 and really love this genre. I have to admit 
 that the first few times playing Burnout Revenge that I found it VERY hard to "hit" the cars. I 
 would naturally dodge them. Even when I said to myself "hit them! hit them!" my fingers would zoom 
 around them. I finally broke that habit and was able to mash them with great glee. 
  
  The graphics are really quite amazing. The car model is great of course - they have really gotten 
 that down on the XBox 360. But more than that - your car deforms in a TON of ways. The paint scrapes 
 off. The sides dent in. It all has to do with how you damage yourself. Cars get sheared in half, 
 tires fly off, you name it. 
  
  There are a number of game types. There are races where you bash as you go. There are crash situations 
 where you launch yourself into traffic and see how much destruction you can make. Other cars on 
 the highway are fair game; bash them and watch them fly. Boost yourself to faster speeds. You develop 
 relationships with other drivers - there will be certain cars that are out for revenge. There are 
 grand prix matches of multi races. 
  
  
  Each course has its own distinct feel. These aren't closed tracks - you are driving through the 
 streets of LA, Miami, Tokyo and other areas. You get palm trees and shiny office buildings, all 
 depending on the area you're in. There are helicopters flying overhead and a ton of car models. 
 
  
  The music is reaosnably good, a collection of fast-paced modern music. I would have loved it if 
 you could choose from different music styles as well, but you can't have everything. 
  
  There's a ton of replay value here - you go back to get the top ranking in every course, aiming 
 for those perfect scores. Since you unlock some really cool cars as you go, it can really help 
 out to take one of the later, super cars back to the early tracks. 
  
  The LIVE feature is really neat, too. Not only can you bash other players online, but you can even 
 record your favorite crashes and load them up. It might be voted one of the top 20 best! 
  
  If I had any complaints about this game, it would be the "look back" the game does every time 
 you slay an enemy. Since your car is still moving very quickly, it's sometimes really tough, if 
 you're about to hit a wall or something, to have that look away and look back happen. Also, I don't 
 like the camera angle in general. It is very low and right against the car. I like an angle that 
 is higher up and further back. I realize some players like both of these features as is, so I wish 
 they would have options for a player to change these 2 items. 
  
  Still, those are minor complaints in a game that is a ton of fun. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake-lutze
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, here we are. With a racing game. Don't you just LOVE racing games? They're fast, shiny, fast 
 and ugh... fast. But this one is different from the vast wealth of crappy racing games. This one... 
 has explosions.
  
  Gameplay 8.5: Awesome, almost perfect, but sometimes its so fast its hard to tell where you're 
 going until your smashed headfirst into a wall. The controls are simple, the control of the cars 
 is tight, and the take downs are AMAZING.
  
  Graphics 9.5: They really outdid themselves here. Graphics have a nice kind of bloom effect going 
 on, and everything looks pretty realistic, sans the fact that you're racing down a street and nobody 
 really seems to mind very much, like its a normal thing. The cars are wonderfully modeled, the 
 civilian cars aren't. Not saying they're bad, just don't have as much time, blood, sweat and tears 
 put into them.
  
  Sound 7: I don't like the soundtrack. AT ALL. Not saying its bad, but I always found myself putting 
 something better on, like SlipKnoT or Atreyu. But, the cars sound nice, and so does everything 
 else. I cant give you the most accurate description though, sorry! Blame my music tastes!
  
  Multyplayer 10: aww yeah... nothing is better than having a crash party with a few of your 
 friends and just fighting it out in a race.
  
  Race Tracks 8: Whats a racing game without good race tracks? Not a very god racing game, that's 
 what. Thankfully, this game not only delivers, but in some areas, exceeds. Most tracks are wonderful, 
 with shortcuts abound, labeled with a helpful blue light. Other tracks, are simply forgettable, 
 nothing outstanding or anything. But when these tracks are good, they're GREAT.
  
  Overall: I say you should buy this game, its a modern racing masterpiece. I love it, and I still 
 play it all the time. Do yourself, and you're 360 a huge favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychedelicbabe
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game i thought it was truly superb the graphics were pretty cool too. the gameplay 
 was fantastic and i found it very easy to get the hang off. the takedowns were fun and after 3 
 years im still addicted to it.. the community on this game is 100% there are always action packed 
 rooms wether you want to race or road rage or even crash... me personally i prefer to just race... its 
 harsh the way that it freezes every now and then it kind of messes your rank up but that is the 
 only thing that annoys me but then on the other hand its a good thing because it urges you on to 
 play more... but this game is still going very well even after 3 years of launch and there are still 
 alot of people still playing it which proves that it is still a very popular racing game in fact 
 out of the racing games ive owned i have to say nothing feels or plays like Burnout Revenge... what 
 a superb game i just wish that ea would liven it up more by adding new tracks or new cars.... heres 
 hoping... i doubt it though theyre spending too much time on Paradise to even consider Revenge.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I had played this game on the Xbox, but later bought it for the 360. The graphics are great and 
 the Crash Mode makes a return and it's better than ever. The game starts out solid and slowly gets 
 harder to a point where only a burnout master could complete the full game. Burnout Revenge is 
 definitely not for the achievement lovers because after playing this game for a while I only ended 
 up with like 40 gamerscore in it. Since I'm writing this game late, and the price is very low, 
 then I'd probably buy this game, unless you would rather get the newer burnout which is Burnout 
 Paradise. So Revenge is for any burnout fan for sure but proves to be challenging at times. Plus 
 the crashes are incredible. --------------------the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Racing is fun and intense. Great sense of speed. Almost 200 events to complete in single-player. 
 Graphics look great. Sound effects are crazy. Awesome licensed soundtrack. Controls are perfect 
 when going at high speeds. Good online matchmaking and video sharing.
  -
  The Bad: Boosting in online play is cheap. Bare-bones vehicle customization. Occasional dip in 
 frame rate. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Burnout has always been about intense racing, high speeds, and smashing your opponents into things 
 and causing destruction. Burnout Revenge doesn't disappoint. In fact, it actually makes it better. 
 Both single player and multiplayer races are fun, plus there more events besides just racing. This 
 is arguably the 360's best racer yet.
  Of course, since this is the 360 version of the game, your probably wondering what improvements 
 it makes for the PS2 and Xbox versions. To start off with the obvious, the graphics are a lot better. 
 Everything has more detail and lighting look fantastic. The car crashes and explosions look great, 
 which makes taking down your opponents more fun. The only problem is that the frame rate occasionally 
 dips, which can sometimes make it hard to see oncoming traffic. All frame rate dips aside, this 
 is a great looking game.
  Another addition to the 360 version is recording parts of replays and sharing them online. This 
 is an interesting way to show your friends that sick explosion caused in Crash Mode. You can also 
 watch videos uploaded by others that you don't know. Now there is also a memory system online that 
 saves your rivals. So if someone took you down in one race but you didn't get revenge afterwards, 
 you can play them again some other day, still be rivals, and have a chance for revenge. There are 
 also achievements tied to taking out rivals online, such as take out a rival 5 times, get revenge, 
 and so on. This version easily has the best online.
  The last improvement is the way Crash Mode starts. The PS2 and Xbox versions had a golf like meter 
 where you had to tap a button at a specific time to get a good start. The 360 version gives you 
 a good start automatically. This is better because now you don't have to constantly be restarting 
 the event because of a bad start. 
  The single-player mode in this game is called the World Tour. You complete events that take place 
 in areas on different parts of the world. There nearly 200 events to complete, which gives the 
 game a lot of lasting appeal. There are races, Crash Mode, Eliminator Races, Crashbreaker Races, 
 Burning Laps, Traffic Attack, Road Rage, and Grand Prix. In Crash Mode, your job is to cause the 
 biggest car pile up possible. At the beginning, there is the Crash Cam, which shows you the best 
 spot to crash. This mode isn't exactly intense, but it is good for comic relief and to see explosions. 
 Eliminator Races are races where there is a 30 second clock and at the end of time, the racer in 
 last place gets eliminated. This keeps happening until there is only one racer left. This is very 
 fun if you don't want to keep doing the standard racing. Crashbreaker Races are races where when 
 you are taken out, you quickly press B to perform a crashbreaker explosion to get instant revenge. 
 This can also be used to keep racers that are behind from getting past you. Burning Laps are races 
 against time when you have to complete a lap under the time limit. Traffic Attack is when you drive 
 around causing as much destruction as possible by checking traffic. Road Rage is where there are 
 a bunch of racers driving and you have to take as much of them out as possible. If you stay consistent, 
 it can go on forever. The Grand Prix is a tournament of 3 races where you must come in first place 
 with points. These events are incredibly varied and aren't seen in many other racers, which than 
 makes this one unique.
  One thing that might turn off casual racing fans is the lack of vehicle customization. The only 
 way you can change any of the cars you earn is changing its color. It's understandable that this 
 game isn't about changing the way your car performs or making it look like an antique, but it would 
 have been nice if you could tint windows, change rims, and add decals. I find this to be a major 
 flaw in the game. 
  The game has great online play. The modes you see in single player show up on multiplayer. There 
 is a good ranking system where you are against players near your rank so that you don't play against 
 incredibly advanced players. As mentioned earlier, you can share and watch videos online, which 
 is great. The only problem with The multiplayer is that when you manage to get boost at the start, 
 you have infinite boost for the entire race, regardless of what happens or what you do. It is good 
 to have boost at the start, but having it for the entire race is very cheap. If you don't start 
 the the boost and someone else does, you will never catch up. If that didn't happen the online 
 play would have been much better, but it isn't terrible and is worth some of your time.
  All of the tracks look great and are interesting to race in. They each have their own different 
 shortcuts and routes. You get rewarded for doing things and performing specific take downs at each 
 track. It would a long time to do everything, which gives it lasting appeal. 
  Burnout Revenge is an excellent racer. This does what Burnout is known for, intense racing. This 
 is easily the 360's best racer yet. If your looking for a realistic, in depth driving game, then 
 Burnout probably isn't for you. But if your looking for a crazy racer with action, you can't go 
 wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeargantGoat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Burnout 3: Takedown will be remembered as one of the easiest (and most addictive) racing games 
 to pick up & play that has ever been created. Naturally, when approaching Burnout: Revenge, the 
 designers kept many of the original elements which had contributed to its success. What really 
 makes this game stand out is the positive changes that were made which refine the gaming experience 
 even further than its predecessor was able to go.
  In Burnout: Revenge the action is as quick as ever, and the incredible sense of speed translates 
 well to the HD realm of the Xbox 360. Smashing and crashing has never looked so good, and Crash 
 Mode allows you to fully experience this via some amazingly fun and challenging stunt work. I found 
 Crash Mode in Burnout: Revenge so entertaining that I was almost inconsolable when I discovered 
 that Burnout Paradise would omit this feature. 
  The racing related modes are as entertaining as ever, with some great locales and exotic tracks 
 to shake things up. A nice modification to the racing modes has been the addition of traffic checking, 
 which eliminates the nasty collisions with traffic going in the same direction (As long as you 
 are colliding with a smaller vehicle, that is) . As fun as Burnout 3 was, the collisions with traffic 
 on your side of the street made some of the later stages in that game extremely challenging, especially 
 when it came to Burning Laps. Traffic Attack is even added as its own standalone mode, which makes 
 for great fun crashing through the streets and creating crash combos to gain points. 
  With all of your favorite modes intact (and new favorites added) , a great (and expansive) collection 
 of cars to unlock and bash around the course, a great soundtrack which is equal to that of Burnout 
 3, and some fun Online Multiplayer options (Crash Tour!) , Burnout: Revenge stands as the best this 
 series has to offer. I can only hope that the designers who work on the next Burnout game are able 
 to integrate some of the features that Burnout diehards such as myself loved about Revenge. I'm 
 sure I'll still be playing this game by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: declasse
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is an adrenaline rush through and through. With faster than they should be cars 
 and spectacular crashes it's a great game with pleny of veriety.
  
  The game basicaly consists of the World Tour mode in which you race through all the ranks which 
 gives you around 165 races and that will take you a while. The races differ between standard lap 
 races, Crashes in which you have to time a crash perfectly to cause as much damage as possible, 
 and many variations of these.
  
  The game unfortunately only has the World Tour mode but as it crams in all the different modes 
 of the previous games it is forgivable but i think the game could have been helped with a different 
 mode for each race type.
  
  Another thing that the game could have really benefited from would have been some graphics improvements 
 from it's roots on the PS2 and Xbox But it's not such a big deal as the game is still very enjoyable.
 
  
  Personally i tried to perfect every race whih added alot of life and hours to it for me.
  
 
  This game is perfectly enjoyable if not the best out there but you're sure to get something out 
 of it so It's definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge carries on the proud name of the Burnout series excellently, while even adding 
 a new mode for you to get revenge on those who have made you crash (it's in the name) . The graphics 
 have improved greatly, even to the point of allowing you to play in HD. The campaign mode allows 
 you to play against the other racers and play the many different methods available in the game. 
 You get to race against the clock, other racers, do some crashes, and play in the road rage modes. 
 The new revenge mode is a great way of getting your own back at a computer and feeling like you 
 have achieved something. You get a tremendous sense of achievement when you ram someone who made 
 you crash into a lamp post, and get to throttle by using your newly found boost. You also get to 
 take the fun online, crashing into people all over the world, or your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxlizardxx
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I'll just be straightforward: Burnout: Revenge on Xbox 360 feels more like an advertisement campaign 
 for High-Definition gaming then an actual game itself. It's evident in the beginning cutscene, 
 complete with a seductive woman's voice and quips of black-and-white, fullscreen game footage played 
 before the quips of full-color widescreen footage (if played on a High-Def T. V., the woman doesn't 
 say anything) to make you think "Wow, what kind of rock was I living under?"
  
  Other than that, it's not really that different than Burnout 3 other than it having a stripped-down 
 campaign and pathetic excuse for an Options menu (if EA can't even get the goddamn Options menu 
 right, there's something seriously wrong with these guys) . Oh, and you can also propel traffic 
 vehicles forward as long as they are going the same direction you are and are not something huge 
 like a semi truck, but honestly cares? The physics of the traffic vehicles are floaty anyway, so 
 it's not really that brutal or satisfying.
  
  I'm stopping right here because I really don't care anymore. P. S. The multiplayer servers are down 
 as far as I know, so that's one less incentive to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesupersm
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I'll first start off by saying that this is a very good racing game for casual gamers who like 
 aggressive racing. Now the game has a very unique selection of cars, ranging from 4x4 trucks to 
 Xbox 360 cars that go 209 mph. But the cars weren't made very well and almost all are the same 
 besides speed and turning, and the max speed limit for all cars is 209, it never goes past 209. 
 There is no free roam like in Burnout Paradise, there is only world tour, multi player, and xbox 
 live. Not much people play xbox live for burnout revenge, and almost no-one downloads the film 
 clips that you make, and you can only share them by giving them to your friends or them being on 
 the top 20 which sucks. Most people that you will meet on xbox live never talk or don't have microphones. 
 And another thing is that there is no team racing in xbox live. The single player events are fun, 
 defiantly the crashes, but the burning route races can get frustrating at times. And it does get 
 repetitive. It isn't very realistic how you hit the cars 2 times against a wall and they will fly 
 into the sky then land 200 yards away, but it doesn't matter because its pretty awesome to watch 
 the crashes, and there are different signature take downs you can complete in the world tour (the 
 games version of single player.) signature take downs when you land on someone, get revenge on 
 your rival 3 times or more. The game is very good, but not all will like it, I recommend you rent 
 it before you buy it and see if you like it then buy it. Either way its defiantly worth a play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronhirschman
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Whell I've already beat this game on my Playstation 2, but when I bought the xbox 360, I figured 
 I'd give the game a shot, Well worth it my freinds,. A shot worth taking. Graphics blow all Playstation 
 2 race games off the road.. Super fast paced game, with free car skins on xbox live. I cant complain 
 to bad about this game, except for the fact that I already beat it, but its kinda fun to re-play, 
 and fine-tune my driving skills. I can't wait to try the online version of this game. If its like 
 Playstation 2 then I'm in for a good treat. Like Ice cream with some fudge and sprinkles on top... 
 mmmm ice cream..
  
  Who doesn't love crashing cars, and driving at high speeds. From the classic burnout design to 
 this game, I'll give the designers a high five of greatness. I Don't think there's much better 
 they can do. Maybe unlock the city.. Oh whait thats the next game. Which is my next buy.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is a high-speed semi-combat racing game that requires fast reflexes. It is not about realistic 
 shifting or attempting not to run into any traffic. The game allows you to take down other players, 
 making the game much more exciting. Although there are no crazy weapons like Full Auto or Twisted 
 Metal, your car becomes your weapon.
  
  I am not much of a standard racing game fan. But this game is too much fun to resist. Taking down 
 cars and causing huge accidents, both the online and offline modes are extremely fun. The achievements 
 are well-placed, some you obtain as you go along, others you'll have to work at.
  
  The control scheme is very simple, and the game is real easy to pick-up. But with all the short-cuts 
 and little tricks that can get you the upper edge, it takes a while to master.
  
  A HDTV definately helps in this game, because being able to see those little cars 0.5 seconds faster 
 could prevent an accident. Expect people to get angry with you online, as it is a very aggressive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camkillz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  This is a fun pick up and play game. It can get harder in the upper levels. The racing is a rush. 
 I love that you can go super speeds and still keep control. Of course take downs are great. When 
 you slam into another car and run them off the road. The REVENGE take down is great in single player 
 but is even better in multiplayer mode. The REVENGE is better on someone you know. 
  The combo of different types of game play are sweet to. You get a chance to change gears as to 
 not wear out any one game mode. They could market this game as an anger management tool. This game 
 should be in office break rooms everywhere. Something about causing a 50 car pile up that will 
 make the daily commute feel better. 
  Load times are a bear! Thats about the only negative thing. The newer version of this has corrected 
 it I believe. 
  
  CaMkiLLz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is the second Burnout game I have played. I played the original years ago for the PS2 when 
 it came out and have not played any others until this one.
  
  The game is a blast to play! I enjoy all the crash sequences and especially the large accident 
 sequence (can't remember what it is called tho) the one in which you cause a crash and then let 
 other cars pile up in the crash and the object is to cause the most damage money amount for one 
 single crash.
  
  I would prefer if the cars were real and used the real names instead of a sack of numbers that 
 don't make any sense, why not have a real car like a Dodge Viper and call it a viper instead of 
 something like SCM-34353453 or some crap like tha, maybe the serious didn't have the cash to buy 
 rights to use the real cars or the names for them either.
  
  Either way, the game is a lot of fun and the crash sequences are very enjoyable, if you have ever 
 wondered what it would be like to crash a car... this is about as close as you will get to doing 
 so and enjoying it without the cost of car repairs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razzabazza
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  While it is such a great game, I found it hard to complete all the offline achievements on the 
 360. This should only be attempted by people who can drive stylishly.
  The boost system is rewarding, but the cornering is terrible. However this doesn't matter, as you 
 shouldn't be lifting off the boost button.
  It is so much more than its Need-For-Speed counterparts, and is everything Need-For-Speed needs 
 to include concerning bounty, as it has so many more races and race modes.
  This is, however, a more fun racing game, and is a fun racing smash-em-up (excluding the achievements!)
 
  The 10 bonus crash events are a welcome challenge, as these are probably the hardest events on 
 the game, apart from completeing the challenge sheets and signature takedown lists.
  
  I would recommend this excellent game to anyone who has enjoyed the Burnout series so far, and 
 that paradise couldn't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerrythefunguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Okay I got this game for only 26 bucks used which isnt that bad for a 360 game that came out 2 
 years ago. I can say the graphics are dated since Burnout Paradise looks a Million Times better 
 but it isnt the graphics that counts in Burnout its actually the gameplay. I basically still have 
 the PS2 version of Revenge which is odd that I would pick up this one also but then agian playing 
 it and beating it all over agian to me feels like breathe of fresh air since I havent played the 
 PS2 version for a while now and plus I want this game because of not having the gulf meter in the 
 start of crashmode but instead it just lets you zoom off with the perfect speed and do your crashes 
 with ease this time. I do like the replays after the races but then agian I dont rewatch any of 
 them since Im trying to finish this game as fast as possiable.
  
  I can tell you one thing about the graphics that bother me the most is that the PS2 version has 
 better lighting then the 360 version so the atmosphere looks better on the PS2 which is weird since 
 the 360 was the only powerful next gen console back then and on the xbox360 version the reflective 
 surface on the cars look pretty ridiculously shiny and even the PS2 version looks better which 
 is pretty sad. There is one thing that surpass the PS2 version with the graphics and thats the 
 scratches the car gets when it keeps hitting a surface over tune and it gets it paint chip off 
 by the end of the race which looks pretty cool after the race how badly your car gotten for a long 
 period of time duking it out with all those other cars. 
  
  The sound, sounds a bit more realistic this time around with the traffic cars zooming pass by you 
 and the nitrous sounding more louder and meaner this time around but the soundtrack is the same 
 but it cant be modified like the PS2 version to seperate the songs to be played only for races 
 and only for Menus which is my favorite feature to make the music balance in the game, but then 
 agian you can use your Music from your hardrive so thats a big plus so far if you perfer your own 
 music instead. 
  
  The gameplay remains the same as before so yeah it just a beef up pretty looking burnout revenge 
 in HD with just the exact same gameplay except, like I said before in crashmode you just hold down 
 the B button and boom your off to crash as many cars as you can for about a 1 million dollars in 
 damages. 
  
  My ratings:
  Graphics 7/10
  Sound 9/10
  Gameplay 8/10
  Replay Value 9/10
  OVERALL 8.5 not bad for a two year old game but I cant stop coming back to 
 it even if it aged a litttle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackWolf0526
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. But thats it, its not great or wonderful, just good. I loved most of the burnout 
 games minus the handhelds. This game just isn't as good as the rest. The crashes are still fantastic 
 and the controls are easy to grasp but once you have that down you are going to repeat the same 
 thing over and over again. The same races with a different car. The same event in a different area. 
 The same race in the same area but driving the opposite direction. This game could have been great 
 but there wasn't enough variety to it. There was zero customization for your cars besides their 
 base car color. That was available on the GC version for petes sake! Thats not to say this game 
 is bad, far from it but you're left feeling like the game kind of cut out on you and is just making 
 you do the same thing over and over. The AI in this game is terrible. They will just let you ram 
 them off a cliff without fighting back. While it's fun to crash people, thats a bit ridiculous. 
 I got 72 takedowns in a three lap race once. Now come on, that's a bit much. This game is fun but 
 not much else is offered online than in the normal game. This game is good but you may want to 
 rent it instead of buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Burnout 3 set a new bar for arcade racing sims, and I had high hopes the Burnout Revenge would 
 keep that winning formula and add some new things to the mix, but it just kept the winning formula. 
 Burnout Revenge is ultimately an uninspired game, though still enjoyable.
  
  STORY - Umm. I hope you didn't expect me to write anything here.
  GAMEPLAY - The Burnout games 
 have been all about arcade-y car handling, and reckless driving. The game is all about boosting 
 (you'll probably end up pressing the boost button more than the acceleration button) , and to get 
 boost, you have to drive on the wrong side of the road, nearly miss cars, and of course taking 
 down enemies.
  Burnout Revenge doesn't really add anything new to the formula. You still have Takedowns, and all 
 the modes including the always-fun Crash mode. There are three EXTREMELY minor things added to 
 the game, and those are the use of Crashbreaker (exploding your car after you crash and before 
 you respawn) during normal races, which can make the courses even more hectic and offer a whole 
 new angle on how to pull off Takedowns, the Revenge system, in which if a guy takes you down, they're 
 specially pointed out, and if you take them down, you get lots of boost, and finally the ability 
 to pull of Traffic Checking, in which you can hit cars going the same way as you and not crash, 
 which I find just dumbs down the challenge a bit.
  The online multiplayer is okay and supports most of the game modes, but the real multiplayer fun 
 is the Crash party mode, where players just pass around the controller and compete to get the highest 
 amount of vehicular damage, because it's just so entertaining to completely total unsuspecting 
 people's cars, right?
  
  GRAPHICS - The cars and the courses all look great, and the lighting is pretty good, too but the 
 game does slow down from time to time, and given the fact that the game is all about twitch, arcade 
 style driving, it sucks when the frame-rate drops.
  SOUND - The music brought to you by EA Trax is awful, but thankfully the roar of engines and the 
 sounds of crashing metal sound good.
  
  VALUE - Burnout Revenge's singleplayer could possibly interest you for a few hours (but it really 
 depends on if you're a newcomer to the series or not, as returning fans will probably forget about 
 it sooner, due to it being pretty much the same damn thing) and the online multiplayer is probably 
 the same way, but Crash Party mode will be entertaining for a while no matter what when you have 
 friends around.
  
  TILT - Overall, returning fans won't find this game too interesting, but for newcomers, this is 
 definitely the best in the series. The production values are good minus the slow-downs and the 
 music, and the game ends up not adding much to the formula, but the existing formula is still great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  There are many different racing games, and the Burnout series resides somewhere in the 'destruction 
 derby' subgenre - its focus on destruction as well as arcade, fast-paced races, makes for an exhilirating 
 experience.
  
  First and foremost, this is a 'no BS' racing game. Theres no story, as it would've probably been 
 an annoyance anyway, just the pure destruction experience, in either the single player or multiplayer 
 flavour. The singleplayer 'career' mode consists of different categories of races, depending on 
 your 'rank' - initially you'll only be able to play the 'Harmless' races, but as you progress further 
 races will open. At first, the game seems quite easy, but gradually the game gets tougher, and 
 getting all the gold medals for all races is quite challenging.
  
  The races are mainly traffic attack, race, crash and time attack. All of them are fun, but the 
 main races are perhaps the most fun of them (especially those with 'crashbreaker' enabled) - but 
 for variety's sake the crash and traffic attack modes make for a good break. Perhaps the crash 
 mode is a little too dependent on chance, but wrecking 50 cars in one go never gets boring...
 
  
  The crashbreaker ability gives you the chance to explode after having crashed, with a little skill 
 you'll be able to hit some of the other cars in the explosion and be awarded a quick return to 
 the race. In crash mode, the crashbreaker can be used to hit additional cars, for which you'll 
 receive extra points.
  
  The visuals aren't exactly impressive, considering what we've become used to, but they work, and 
 the game is fast, with only minimal stuttering. The car models could've been more impressive, but 
 the crashes look really great.
  
  All in all Burnout Revenge is one of those games that hold on to a simple gaming idea, and exploits 
 the fun part of it. Few games dare to do that nowadays, and its refreshing to see the concept work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I love the Burnout series and don't even get me started on how I felt when Burnout Revenge came 
 out for the Xbox. But its hard to get excited about a game thats basically the same thing as the 
 Xbox version. If you already have the Xbox version, keep on reading this review, otherwise, stop 
 reading this and go buy the game.
  
  On the positive side: The best thing about Xbox 360 Burnout is the Save and Share mode. As well, 
 mulitiplayer is better.
  
  On the negative side: Its the exact same game thats on the Xbox and PS2. So their isn't enough 
 new content that wasn't in the other version of the game. Also, The graphics (especially damage 
 models) aren't all that improved from the other version.
  
  Verdict: Depends if you already have the Xbox version or not. If you don't, why are you still reading 
 this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbo-Evil
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The good
   Great sense of speed  Tons of single player events  Party Crash mode allows 
 for multiple players with one controller  Great music selection
  
  The bad
   Speed makes it hard to see obstacles on the road sometimes  Achievements are really 
 hard to obtain  Too much focus on online
  
  *If you are familiar with the Burnout series, skip this paragraph*
  
  The Burnout series has 
 changed significantly since the original. The original Burnout was a simple racing game with one 
 difference - when you crashed, the game told you how much damage you caused with a dollar figure. 
 I'm not sure about other gamers, but I spent more time crashing and getting high damage bills than 
 actually racing. Thats probably why I never finished it, but it was hilarious fun. Burnout 2: Point 
 of Impact introduced crash mode - where the main objective was to crash as severely as possible. 
 This was fun, but in Burnout 3: Takedown it was given an overhaul, along with most of the other 
 elements of the game. Burnout 3 was regarded by many fans as the turning point of the series. It 
 introduced Takedowns, which is where you force a rival racer to crash - by ramming them into traffic, 
 slamming them into a wall or psyching them out. There were many new features in Burnout 3, too 
 many to list here, that made it a huge success. Burnout Revenge follows on from Takedown.
  
  The focus, if you can call it that, is on Revenge Takedowns. As the name suggests, a Revenge 
 Takedown is where you take down somebody who has taken you down previously. Revenge introduces 
 Revenge Rivals, which lets you see which racers have taken you down. There is no real point to 
 this offline, but online your rivals are carried over from race to race, letting you start or continue 
 rivalry's. It may be pointless in offline, but its fun to actually target a rival instead of just 
 slamming randomly away, as you usually do.
  
  Also new to Revenge is the CrashBreaker Race. For those who don't know, the CrashBreaker was previously 
 only available in Crash mode, and lets you blow up your car after a certain amount of destruction, 
 and lets you cause even more destruction. The CrashBreaker Races are pretty much a regular race, 
 but when you crash you can blow up and hopefully take out rivals.
  
  Road Rage is back, and is basically the same as it was in Takedown. The objective is pretty much 
 to demolish opponents before time runs out. Its seriously fun racking up huge numbers of Takedowns, 
 and theres unlimited opponents, so your never run out of people to hit.
  
  The music is probably the second thing I like most about this game, after the destruction. The 
 music is right for the game, no doubt about it. The songs are inspirational, and they don't get 
 in the way of enjoying the game. The GameSpot review doesn't really mention the music, but it should 
 have, because the music is exceptional. Theres 40+ music tracks for your listening pleasure, and 
 I don't think you'll get tired of any of them. I know I'm not. Although there are a couple of tracks 
 that don't fit as well as the rest, most of the song are great for the action. Sometimes I load 
 up the game just to listen to the music.
  
  Burnout Revenge is worth buying, it's one of the best racers around, although if you're looking 
 for a driving sim, don't buy it. It; s made by EA, which is usually a bad sign, but Burnout is a 
 exception to the rule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisejeffrey8
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The game Burnout revenge is great. A lot of crashing and burning. It should just add quick races, 
 just in case someone doesn't have their memory cards or hard drives because then, they would have 
 to start the world tour all over again, after all that hard work!!!! It is fun, but Also, the takedowns 
 are so great. You have rivals that you want to take down. The game is very great. The cars look 
 good, especially the madden car. This game will be fun if you like racing games. It is unlike an 
 racing game that you are used to playing. The game is realistic. Crashing could be fun, especially 
 the crashbreaker function. When you do that, all you see are flames. High impact game. The turbo 
 button is great, but be careful with it or you might crash. get 1st place in every race. I don't 
 like the fact that you have to get GOLD in ALL events in one RANKING just to get an ACHIEVEMENT. 
 The easiest achievement is recording a clip and sharing it with your friends. The easiest offline 
 achievements are getting 250 takedowns, TRIPLE TROUBLE, AND STACK THE PACK. Other than that, the 
 other achievements are very hard to get. It is very hard to unlock the cars that go 209 mph. When 
 I finished driving the xbox 360 car, I got gold, but I got no PERFECT RANKING. Even if you get 
 gold in an event, it is possible to NOT get a PERFECT RANKING. I don't like that at all. Also, 
 I dont like the fact that in online games, you get kicked out of certain lobbys for no reason. 
 When you created a race, it takes at least 10 min. just for enough people to join. Other than those 
 things. It is a fairly good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  If you've played other games in the Burnout series you'll know exactly what to expect when it comes 
 to Revenge. Every mode is back with some twists. Notably, you can now crash into traffic going 
 the same direction as you. Crazy... I know.
  
  Single-player is a bit of the same ol story, however multiplayer has been fleshed out a bit. The 
 engine still requires you to connect EA's servers through Xbox Live (go figure) . However the inclusion 
 of achievements means you'll be spending more time in races for specific goals.
  
  This disc spent a lot of time in my Xbox360. My only real gripe with it was the graphics which 
 were based upon the previous, although updated Burnout engine. Simply put, if you're looking for 
 an arcade racer with crashing flair, Burnout is your masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is one of those rare games that never ever gets old. you can go back to it on your 
 own or have even more fun when your mates come round trying to outdo each other to see who can 
 cause the most damage. The sound is has becoming crisper from its old xbox days and the already 
 amazing graphics have been tweaked slightly to make it an all round enjoyable game to look and 
 listen to. Theres alwaya another randeom award to unlock or new path to take on each course. Like 
 Gears Of War its a 360 must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I just can't seem to get to grips with car racing games unless there is some other, preferably 
 destructive, activity to accompany the driving. I'm a fan of the old Twisted Metal series and I 
 thought I'd check out Burnout Revenge. Having not played other installments in the Burnout series 
 my first impression was very favourable. It feels like the Tony Hawks of car racing with lots of 
 point scoring and variations on the insanely fast turbo charged car theme.
  
  However saying all this, the first impression didn't last long. I found myself getting very bored 
 of Burnout Revenge very quickly. I can tell it's a good game but I couldn't be bothered to go through 
 the slog of getting every star on every difficulty level to unlock more cars between which I could 
 tell no difference. The game got better once i'd turned off 90% of the crappy soundtrack Emo rubbish 
 but that was enough to draw me in.
  
  The best time I had with this game was playing it with a friend on the same console but within 
 a hour, the fun had soon Burned out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge on Xbox 360 rocks . Its good on Xbox and PS 2 , but on Xbox 360 its best . EA and 
 Criterion games remade Burnout Revenge for Xbox 360 with superior graphics , improved soundquality 
 and gameplay . If you have a HDTV , experience its graphics at its best. The game has excellent 
 soundtracks . The single player mode of the game is lenghty . Graphics ( visuals / set - settings 
 of the surroundings ) rocks .Soundtracks rocks very much. You get to ride and unlock many kinds 
 of cool fast vechiles . In Burnout Revenge you experience mindblowing destructions , crashes , 
 top notch speed thrills . In career mode ( World tour ) you get plenty of different racing modes 
 like race , traffic attack , burning lap , road rage , eliminator , preview , grand prix race , 
 crash events etc with of course signature takedowns . All of them are awesome . After winning them 
 you unlock more contents and enhance your stats .The racing controls are very easy to understand 
 and master . In Burnout revenge you get 2-6 online multiplayer , leaderboards , voice .You can 
 track and taunt your rivals online through live revenge . You can record your best racing moments 
 and share them online .You get multiplayer modes like crash battle , crash party , crash tour etc 
 .
  
  I recommend this game very highly to everyone . Its not very hard to get into , and anybody can 
 enjoy it . Overall its a a very thrilling fun game . Word of caution tho , it can become highly 
 addictive so beware from beforehand or simply enjoy it to the fullest . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassiveKaos
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the sequel to Burnout 3: Takedown for the Xbox , PS2 , and The Game Cube. Burnout 
 3 was an amazing game and this one is similar but lacked what Takedown had. A great Single Player 
 Experience.
  
  Burnout Revenges single player is dull, repetitive, frustrating and boring. It is not challenging 
 like its last installment. The game is really frustrating to the point of you having to do a burning 
 lap 30 times to perfect it.. The game has great sound and graphics as usual in a Burnout game but 
 if your looking for a great single player game then look else where.
  
  The Multiplayer on the other hand is really fun. There are a variety of game types and options 
 and there is even a leader board.
  
  All in all this is a pretty decent game if your looking for a great online racer but if your a 
 newcomer to this game i would recommend buying Burnout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  New features
  
  The tracks have been improved and are now built for battling, with many alternate routes, shortcuts 
 and obstacles.
  
  Other new features include 'In-race Crashbreaker' (the ability to blow one's car up after a crash 
 to cause damage) , vertical takedowns, multiple route tracks with huge air opportunities, and traffic 
 checking, which allows the player to hit same-way traffic without wrecking. To check traffic, one 
 must hit light weight traffic (cars, small vans etc.) travelling in the same direction. If you 
 ram into a bus or truck, or hit any traffic head-on, you crash. With practice, this can be used 
 to clear junctions, destroy heavy or oncoming traffic, score extra points in crash mode and even 
 takedown rivals. There is also a new game mode based on this feature. Your vehicle's weight is also 
 accounted for during a race. For example, a lighter vehicle has better handling but is easier to 
 take out other vehicles in a heavier car and vice versa.
  
  Crash mode
  
  The crash mode has been tweaked to incorporate a new launch system with which to propel the car 
 from the starting line while wind physics have been introduced that affect the in air trajectory 
 of your car. The weight of the car also counts here as it plows through traffic and flies through 
 the air the heavier your car the less affected it is by wind.
  
  Online
  
  The game also features an online mode for PS2 and Xbox Live. Among the new features is a new ranking 
 system, a 'Crash Tour' mode, and a reworked online Road Rage mode where the Blue team must escape 
 being taken out by the Red team for as long as possible. Another interesting feature for Xbox Live 
 is being able to record videos of yourself online and then posting them for others to download 
 it. There even is a board for the top downloads. A few weeks before it was released, a demo of the 
 game was included with Madden NFL 06 for the PS2 and Xbox.
  
  Xbox 360 version
  
  The Xbox 360 version of Burnout Revenge includes several new features and improves the graphics 
 of the game to utilize the power of the next-gen console. The game includes 10 new crash junctions 
 on the Crash Tour. It also includes a vastly improved online mode that introduces online Revenge 
 Rivals. This system allows players to keep track of their number of times they have been taken 
 out or have taken out any given player.
  
  The new version also includes a new Burnout Clips feature, which allows to save 30 second clips 
 of any offline race played and can be shared them with other players over Xbox Live.
  
  Furthermore, the Xbox 360 version removes the launch meter from Crash Mode that was seen in the 
 PS2/Xbox version.
  
  This version was highly acclaimed.
  
  Bonus vehicles
  
  There are a couple of extra vehicles that can be unlocked by the presence of a saved game from 
 another title on the memory card or hard drive when you first create your profile. A Madden NFL 
 '06 save will unlock the Madden Challenge Bus and a Burnout 3: Takedown save will unlock the Dominator 
 Assassin. Both of these cars are available only for Crash events.
  
  The Madden Challenge Bus can also be unlocked by watching the Madden 06 trailer in the Extra Content 
 menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeamonkyNG
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  That game was fun to play online and offline. The online mode was quite difficult since I had to 
 face really good players and there were no noobs online. The cars are not legit but they looked 
 pretty cool. The speed looked really realistic, especially if you have this game in HD. I wouldn't 
 call this a racing game, I would call this a destruction game where only the strongest survives. 
 The tracks were crazy and looked really dangerous. It's great to see a destruction game that I 
 can play. I had fun with this game and you guys will have fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theUNstopable13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  When I first played Burnout 3, it was like nothing I've ever seen before. Then thats when this 
 game came in. Burnout Revenge isn't just the same game but it's also a poorly made game. As you 
 race around the world, you make Revenge Rivals so you can take them out for revenge. Whats the 
 difference? You get taken out by the comp. and he's your Revenge Rival, in Burnout 3 you just get 
 taken out and no Rivals. Most of the stuff in the game is pointless than whats in Burnout 3. So 
 if you are looking for a great racing game, don't get this one, get Burnout 3: Takedown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonewhitey123
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  over all the racing was great in all but really caught my eye was it was the crashing sucked . 
 As an owner of burnout takedown i was very disappointed because the game didnt really improve but 
 got worse.
  
  omg takedown was like the best racing game ever, very good physics, and just plan fun. now as soon 
 as i started playing revenge i was like so stoked to see the new crashes and effects. sometimes 
 i like messing around and just crash into cars and watch the crash in slow-mo. so i crash try crashing 
 a car and the car i rammed doest cause a car accident but retardedly flies 100 ft off the highway. 
 WTF!!! come on that is so fake. All i wanted to was cause a car crash and now every time u crash 
 into smaller cars or SUVs u just blow them off the road. the graphics aren't any better, and basically 
 you are in for a total letdown.
  
  DONT BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onep
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  I'm not real big on racing games. As a general rule of thumb I tend to avoid them because they 
 really do nothing for me. I honestly could care less about automobiles. A friend brought this over 
 with a few other games for me to tryout back when I first purchased my 360. Burnout was the last 
 game I played. I bought it the next day.
  
  The emphasis on wrecking your opponents brought a fresh and much needed twist on conventional racing 
 games. And the crash breakers?! your in first and you get wrecked and theres 4 cars behind you, 
 what do you do. Blow em all to bits. That awesome. Driving in a circle for 300 laps pretending 
 to be Jeff Gordon? Not awesome. The intersection wrecks are cool to. they're like wrecking puzzles. 
 Hmmm, Theres an over pass, an under pass with 8 different lanes. How can I wreck every car on all 
 the roads? Brilliant. Simply put, I've logged 30+ hrs on this game and have no desire to let up. 
 Bring on Burnout Paradise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsidejedi360
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge was the first driving game i owned, and is a great driving game for those who are 
 looking for one. It'll keep you occupied for a long time, especially if you are trying to get the 
 achievement points. This is the main problem, some events get very frustrating very early on. The 
 burning laps are nearly impossible to get perfect on (which is required for the achievement) , traffic 
 attack can be painful but they are doable, and some of the crash modes can get very frustrating. 
 The other events are extremely fun, with road rage a returning favorite of mine. Its good that 
 the cars handle a lot more fluidly than Burnout 3, in which most of the cars were very stiff. It 
 also improves on Burnout 3 in the ease of causing other cars to crash, which was very diffucult 
 in 3, is a lot easier in Revenge and causes more mayhem on the track. A new type of takedown is 
 added, a revenge takedown, which is for taking down someone who has taken you down. This happens 
 quite a lot early on, but gets harder to get as time progresses. Also new are crashbreakers, which 
 is causing your car to explode on cue, hopefully others with you. The takedowns are as satisfying 
 as ever, as expected. There are some notable flaws and bugs though. Sometimes, a car will land 
 just right on top of you, cause you to be taken out, which is really annoying. Other flaws are 
 some cars spin for a long time when they spawn, causing you to crash, and when you spawn you spawn 
 about 5 inches from a car in the oncoming lane. Also very bad is the spawn time. In traffic attack, 
 when you crash, it usually takes about 3 seconds, when you crash and a lot of cars come at you, 
 it takes upwards of 5 seconds, which are really crucial. Unfortunately, these flaws happen pretty 
 frequently, and are pretty annoying. Another big issue is the track design. There are just to many 
 places for you to crash into on some tracks, and unrealistically cramped spaces for you to navigate. 
 However, the high points outnumber the flaws. The cars and environments look great, not what you 
 expect from a top of the line 360 game, but great for a port. The soundtrack is mostly great, but 
 with some duds. The world tour mode can last upwards of 30 hours if you try to get perfect, so 
 theres a lot of lasting value. If your looking for a driving game and you're sick of or suck at 
 sims, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 18198305
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I started playing burnout in the ps2 with burnout 3 then i knew this was going to be the game for 
 me so i play more thatn 40 hours and learn all the tracks . then i bought burnout revenge and i 
 already knew how to play but i still need it to learn the maps so spent a lot in burnout to be 
 the best. i couldnt play online on burnout revenge for the ps2 so i got on the xbox 360 so cool 
 now i rock on both. i want all of u non racing fans to give burnout a try cause u really dont know 
 what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Normally I don't like driving games too much but the way it's been designed for this is nothing 
 short of absolutely brilliant. So, what does this game do differently, for those who've never seen 
 it? The driving game uses what's called a crash mode, literally taking you into an interesting 
 and usually challenging situation to cause literally as much damage as possible by flinging your 
 car into oncoming traffic and adding up all the damage. Sounds great, right? Well, there's even 
 more to it: Around this crash zone are little floating sign icons doing things from bringing up 
 cash flow from damage, to causing extra explosions. Enough on the crash mode, how the racing itself 
 was designed was just as brilliant, it uses a boost gauge system: Doing things on the more dangerous 
 side like driving far too close to other cars among other techniques adds boost to your car which 
 lasts you a little bit of time. Crashing other cars you're competing with is where the real fun 
 is: Taking down cars not only fills your boost gauge, it elongates it, which stacks up about 4 
 times. Even if your car happens to get crashed along the way, you can slow down time and slightly 
 affect the direction of the heap of metal, allowing you to take down some cars with you and helping 
 your boost gauge as well as your rank in the races. The Tour section of the game is a delightfully 
 varied selection of challenges, from races to crashes and more as well. The AI can be pretty tough 
 on you so don't think it's going to be all roses to win, but it's not all hell either. There's 
 tons of unlockable cars, including my favorite, the batman car, you'll know it when you get it... 
 I love this game because it makes driving a lot more fun than they were previously, sometimes realistic 
 driving games one my favorites PGR2 just don't quite give an adrenaline rush like Burnout. If you 
 like driving games, get this game now. If you like games in general, get it anyways. Sure, it doesn't 
 offer THAT much differently from the previous ones, it just allows you to get more boost power 
 if some idiot happens to knock you out, In fact, revenge removed a few things like the floating 
 bonuses/crashbreaker icons. Nonetheless, try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianoman4life
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Absolutely blown away!!!!
  You cannot go wrong with the recent Burnout games! The speed and adrenaline never dies out every 
 time I play this game! Well, sometimes the game can get a little frustrating, but it's honestly 
 one of the best buys for the Xbox 360.
  Single player is actually one of the most addicting things I cannot put down. There are several 
 types of races that they have, including regular racing, traffic attack, road rage, eliminator, 
 and the new crashbreaker in races. There is also of course the crash mode where you stock up on 
 money by crashing into traffic in one spot. Crashbreakers in races are originally from crash mode 
 where you can blow up your vehicle, destroying everything in a certain radius, depending how much 
 fire is in your boost meter. Now this feature has been included into the game where you can destroy 
 not only nearby traffic, but other racers, too. That way, almost everyone can be on the same page 
 every time it happens. All the other types of races are back and it cannot be hard to pick up especially 
 playing these races on the Xbox 360.
  The graphics to this game are phenomenal! I was so surprised with the details of damage comparing 
 the Xbox version to the Xbox 360 version. You'll love how the doors, hoods, and trunks come flying 
 every where once you crash your car. And the various places that you race are absolutely gorgeous! 
 Lighting is implemented in this game and it looks absolutely fantastic!
  Sound has still be the same from the previous games and there's nothing wrong with it. What I also 
 like is that when you crash, you can hit impact time and the sound will be slow and distorted. 
 Release the impact time button, and it'll go back to normal. The music tracks are great, too. It 
 goes very well with the theme of the game.
  I've mentioned that the game can get frustrating. And yes it can. There are instances where you 
 are in first place, you feel that it's already over, and all of a sudden, you crash into a random 
 oncoming car! Or you hit a barrier! It makes you really mad, but you can suck it up and just play 
 it over again. It really gives the game replay value and will not be on your shelf too long collecting 
 dust.
  Multiplayer is pretty fun, too. You can share clips online, race with friends, and even have crash 
 mode where you see who can get the most money damage.
  All in all, Burnout Revenge is a great step towards the next-gen. I'm sure it plays awesome on 
 an HD TV screen. Once I get one, I'll be playing this game and probably fail all my school or get 
 fired. Sorry, I was up all night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pirogeoth
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Well i must say this game is just about the only racing game that i would play but it can become 
 very fustrating to play as the repeatitive crashing from hitting a pixel. The cars in the game 
 look nice although the same model can be seen to be repeatativly used with different stats. The 
 graphics are very polished and nice to look at although they soon just turn into a blur as soon 
 as the race begins. The AI is still rather impressive and extremly challenging as they gracefully 
 weave their way through the traffic. Overall it has an enjoyable aspect but don't expect the joy 
 to last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Burnout has always had it's own natural appeal. This version of Burnout definitely brings it out, 
 but I'm not sure if it hits it right on the mark. Burnout Revenge is a great game if you like the 
 thrill of racing at high speeds at the same time trying to destroy your opponent while evading 
 objects that you could crash into yourself. If you're a thrill seeking gamer, and like to concentrate 
 on nothing but your game, then this is the game for you. But if you like to stray off to other 
 things while playing, then you may want to think about getting a less intense game. The game has 
 many different challenges, from timed events, to seeing how many enemies you can take out. Most 
 of the challenges are awesome, like the Crash challenges have a great appeal to it, because even 
 if you fail it, you'll probably want to try it again. I thought the best was the events where you 
 had to take a certain amount of your enemies out before the time limit was up. With all the excitement 
 and chaos that goes into a visually stunning game, there are a few parts that may turn someone 
 off. (Or just flip out completely) The time limit challenges, in the beginning are simple. But 
 if you're going for the gold, (And on the 360, for achievement reasons, you'll want to) Some of 
 the times that you need to acquire may seem to be impossible. For instance, and this is just me, 
 but it took me about maybe 30 tries (No lie) to get a gold on one challenge. (And that was a lucky 
 one) Also some of the challenges that require you to smash up traffic, might be difficult for you. 
 (It was for me, I'm not entirely sure for you) And even though I said that the crash challenge 
 was a highly repeatable challenge, it can get old after playing it too many times. So if you're 
 a hardcore racing gamer, I highly recommend this game. But if you want to just check into it, this 
 game is good for that too. This is a phenomenal game, but even a game of this stature, can be ruined 
 by a few minor problems, even if they are small. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydthekid087
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who aren't familiar with the Burnout series, let me fill you in. Here is Burnout's 
 gameplay in a nutshell: Gas, brake, steer, boost, smash other cars into things. No transmission 
 or gearshifting, no handbraking, no complicated car setups. Now that is not to to say you can't 
 do some minor tricks like drifting around a corner or catching a little air. But the power behind 
 the game is in two areas. One of which is the Burnout boost. Driving offensive by skimming by cars, 
 getting air, powersliding around turns and driving in oncoming traffic fills a Burnout meter. Once 
 you fill the meter, it's like having NOS. Hit the boost and you will see the screen morph into 
 pure speed. Now unlike previous games, the amount of boost you get to use is also affected by how 
 well you can stay in one piece. Crashing other people's cars is one of your other main goals. In 
 each game, no matter if it was a regular race or not, you got points for running your opponents 
 off the road. And I mean off the road! That's what they call a Takedown . The more takedowns you 
 do on your opponents, the more points you will receive. The more points you receive, the more cars 
 and events and awards you are going to unlock. Sounds like fun eh? Well in Burnout Revenge, there 
 are some brand new Takedowns and fun things. Let's start with the reason the game is called Burnout 
 Revenge. Along with the standard Takedowns you have the return of the Revenge Takedowns, which 
 was in the last game. Remember your opponents will be just as eager to slam you into a wall too. 
 If someone takes you down, if and when you catch back up to them they'll have a red icon above 
 their car. If you taken them back down you'll get extra points for a Revenge Takedown. Ahhh, but 
 that's not all. This year you are able to use traffic to take down your opponents. As long as you 
 don't slam into an oncoming mack truck or something substantially bigger than your own car, you 
 can slam that vehicle into your opponent and get not just Takedown, but a Traffic Check Takedown. 
 This comes in handy too in other races, like the Traffic Attack. In Traffic Attack you have to 
 just keep checking cars in front of you until you run out of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManaBlade22
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Okay, seriousely, who doesn't love to blow up cars, i mean like, smashing into cars and blowing 
 up when you crash to blow up other cars? That's basically what this awesome game is. There are 
 different game modes such as road rage, races, crashes, and much more! You choose different music 
 like Dance, Dance by the fall out boys and Top of the World by the All American rejects. Basically 
 it's the best racing game and series of all time!!!!! Get this game, it really is the best racing 
 game of ALL TIME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Overall, as i said, the best racing game to ever live and 
 the best in the whole series!!!! Take it from me, GET THIS GAME!! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link12394
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game hoping for something like need for speed or forza. But i get a game that 
 has hardly no features on your car you can customize hardly any cars. And no story... total arcade 
 game to say the least. None the less it was a fun game but not the game i would normaly play. And 
 wtf is up with the traffic checking!? You hit a car from behind you lose relativly no speed and 
 that car flies as if hit by a train! and your in some Off brand Knock off lamborghini If you aren't 
 big on reality, and you like starting out with a fast car in a game... and dont care about customizing 
 it... go ahead get this game. as for me i will stick with Forza. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is a game ahead of its time and, as such, belongs here in the next generation. 
 EA loses a few points because this title was released last year on current-gen consoles and doesn't 
 add much in the innovation category. But Burnout Revenge proves you can successfully take a current-gen 
 game and port it into a great next-generation experience. This is, of course, something we don't 
 want to see made into a trend, and it's still difficult to recommend a purchase to anyone that 
 already owns the current-gen title. But for everyone else, Burnout Revenge is the first white-knuckle 
 racer on the 360. Solid single-player mode and excellent online and multiplayer modes will keep 
 you coming back for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blabla12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Revenge continues burnout's classic destructive feel and easy-to-learn technique that will probably 
 satisfy anyone. I literaly laughed out loud while doing the new ability, traffic checking, and 
 was very impressed by the fast-packed races. Unlike past burnout games, races will never be lop-sided. 
 Burnout: Revenge adds a revenge addition that will have you wanting to get back on your enemies. 
 Takedowns are still fun, and all the game types from the past are included, and many more. You'll 
 drive the courses backward. There's a new rating system and a start collecting system that will 
 want you to keep on playing. The world tour is much less complicated as the last game. Go to your 
 game store and drop a few bucks on this game, you really should.
  
  GREAT GAME.
  
  Worth the $25 i got it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the perfect car destruction game for the XBOX 360. The graphics are above and 
 beyond what they are on the ps2 (for obvious reasons) , gameplay is superb, and the soundtrack is 
 one of the best i have ever heard in years. The basic objective of this game and all the other 
 burnout games is to make as much destrcution as humanly possible. The cars are exactly the kind 
 of thing that this game is meant for, fast, brutal destruction. The soundtrack suits this game 
 in every aspect. With band like Fall Out Boy to Maximo Park to the brutal and unrelenting Bullet 
 For My Valentine. This soundtrack has a song for every track and for every car (not to mention every 
 type of gamer) . If you have played past Burnout titles then you owe it yourself to check this one 
 out. The only real flaws that are in this game are that some times it will have collision detection 
 problems in the form of your car flying thousands of miles into the air. While funny this will 
 happen quite a few times during your gameplay. While it is long and challenging this title is well 
 worth its weight in gold so to say. I highly recommend this game to anyone who loves cars and destruction 
 all in one high resolution package. buy this game it amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight - Burnout Revenge is all about the online mode. The single player is 
 a great way to build up your skills before heading online but its amongst other people that you'll 
 really rack up your playing time, just because the whole thing is so simple and yet so satisfying.
 
  
  In either mode, you'll pick a car and head onto the track - no customising your cars suspension 
 or tire pressure or any of that supposedly realistic stuff that doesn't really make any difference 
 anyway. After a brief countdown, you're off on a high-octane joyride unknown to any other driving 
 game. Pure, arcade style action.
  
  One problem I've always had with the Burnout series (well, since the 3rd one) is the Signature 
 Takedowns - most of them are more a matter of luck than skill and if you haven't got them all by 
 the time you've completed the single player mode you're going to have to keep playing one race 
 over and over again until the enemy cars just happen to line up right to pull it off... quite tedious. 
 A similar complaint can be made of the challenges (8 specific things you have to do in each of 
 the 5 or 6 locations) , although those are easier. Nice to have a challenge at the end, but if it 
 wasn't for the online mode I doubt many people would bother.
  
  But as I said earlier, the online mode is what it's all about. A fairly arbitrary world ranking 
 number for each player lets you know their skill level in the lobby. Once up to 6 players are in, 
 you start and have a great time, every time. I haven't played any single game in all my years of 
 loving computer games as much as I've played this one, and that's saying a lot.
  
  I'm dropping a couple of points off the sound because of the terrible emo soundtrack - there's 
 a couple of good tracks on there but I got tired of the whining very quickly. Thankfully the Xbox 
 360 allows you to play your own music instead. Graphics are excellent but since this is really 
 just a very well done port of an original Xbox game I'll drop 1 from that since I know they can 
 do better. Overall, if you had to own one game for the 360, I would recommend it be this one. Sure, 
 there's no story, no drama, no complicated move list, but it is just pure fun - and that's what 
 gaming is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainbowsix6666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Being the first game that I got to play on an Xbox 360, I found Burnout Revenge to be pretty easy 
 to learn and extremely fun to play. What I enjoy the most about Burnout is playing it in the multiplayer 
 mode against my cousin, mainly due to our desire to out drive one another and cause the biggest 
 crash. Another thing that I really like about the game has to be getting rewarded for crashing 
 into other cars (as long as its not head-on) , benches or signs, completely the opposite of how 
 youd drive in real life. While overall I find Burnout Revenge to be a great game to play, the 
 one part of it that I didnt like too much had to be when I played in the takedown mode; playing 
 in the single player mode and against someone else, I never was able to grasp the concept of taking 
 down the cars on the road. Id highly recommend playing this game if you like auto racing games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elitekiller1172
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite games out there, ever since I played Burnout Takedown I loved it 
 but then after this game came out i fell in love with it. Playing this on a HDTV it looks so amazing 
 i almost thought i was in heaven when I saw the picture and the gameplay. When you crash in your 
 vehicle the wreckage is crazy, car parts flying everywhere and your car getting really f'dup. I 
 and now I can see that their making Burnout Paradise thats what I really want now its going to 
 be insane, well i give this game a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calicow
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Being the first game that I got to play on an Xbox 360, I found Burnout Revenge to be pretty easy 
 to learn and extremely fun to play. What I enjoy the most about Burnout is playing it in the multiplayer 
 mode against my cousin, mainly due to our desire to out drive one another and cause the biggest 
 crash. Another thing that I really like about the game has to be getting rewarded for crashing 
 into other cars (as long as its not head-on) , benches or signs, completely the opposite of how 
 youd drive in real life. While overall I find Burnout Revenge to be a great game to play, the 
 one part of it that I didnt like too much had to be when I played in the takedown mode; playing 
 in the single player mode and against someone else, I never was able to grasp the concept of taking 
 down the cars on the road. Id highly recommend playing this game if you like auto racing games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russruss1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. I was looking for a good game to play with my friends and stepped upon 
 Burnout Revenge. I was immediately immersed in its intense fast-paced racing action. It takes everything 
 NASCAR should be and does it perfectly. The takedown (crashing) system is great as well as many 
 new gametypes to play. The graphics are phenomenal. At 200mph, they look life like. The sound tracks 
 are great, as well as the multiplayer. You will enjoy this game.
  
  The only downside are the achievement points. Which can be rather challenging, but everyone likes 
 a challenge here and there ;) . Great value (40$) , Great Time, Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Pick your weapon, which in this case is your vehicle, take what you know about standard racing 
 games, and add a whole lot of extra fun. Burnout is famous for being a great racing game based 
 around the simple concept of causing the biggest (most costly) crashes, and trying to fight your 
 way to the finish line by taking out your opponents. Everything about this game involves crashes, 
 which is why it is so popular among racing fans.
  
  Gameplay 9- The controls are simple to use and responsive. No clunky controls here. There are many 
 modes to play, each with increasing level of difficulty.
  Graphics 10- Very detailed graphics for the cars and the environments. The vehicles have virtually 
 no polygon corners.
  Sound 8- The loud crash sound effects will most likely drown out the soundtrack playing in the 
 background. However, like with most 360 games you can listen to your own music while you play.
 
  Value 8- Once the story mode is finished some of the value is lost, but it is still fun to try 
 to keep breaking records on the crash stages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  This game is my favorite racing game, awesome races and awesome online gaming.
  
  The single player is really cool, all these achievements are easy to get and fun. The Signature 
 moves are hard to find and it takes a while to get it. Other than that, the replay thing is awesome, 
 changing the camera angles.
  
  The Muliplayer is awesome, i love the new rival settings in the game and the burnout clip thing 
 too. I don't even have the achievement for the Burnout Clips, but i'm trying.
  
  The Achievements aren't hard to get, but the online ones are. Takes me a long time to get the 50 
 takedowns achievement. The ones i don't have yet is the burnout clip and 100 takedowns on one person. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellfire9988
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The good: Overly realistic crashes look cool, the crash events are teriffically fun, it has some 
 very nice looking visuals. Great sense of speed.
  
  
  The bad: The overly realistic 
 crashes can get very annoying, there is not much value here when it comes to online play, achievements 
 are very hard to get, Too hard in some spots.
  
  
  Burnout is not your generic 
 racer, it is quite literally the opposite of the Project Gotham series, and Forza series. In burnout 
 you go 200+ miles per hour, giving you a great sense of speed. While you are going at this insane 
 speed, you are usually pitted against 7 other opponents, who you can smash about. Generally these 
 missions can be fun purely destroying someone else's car, but trust me, it gets real old real fast. 
 Gameplay: fun at times, but can get real annoying, real fast. The pure car combat part is cool, 
 also along with a mode where you try to crash as many cars as possible. Although this may seem 
 cool, it gets old. Strictly the racing part of the game I would say is seriously not fun. If you 
 were expecting a good racing game that had some bumping, and aggressive driving, go with something 
 like NFS. Graphics: the crashes are nothing less than amazing, and the damge looks overly realistic. 
 The environments might look good, and make the graphical part of the game quite good.
  
  Sound: The cars sound quite real, and it has an OK soundtrack if you like pop/rock/emo bands. Value: 
 this racer is extremely annoying to play online, in nearly every game i've played someone starts 
 driving backwards, someone lags, or someone somehow is using a WARTHOG from halo... TRUE STORY. 
 it's terribly glitchy all of the games i've played online in.. maybe im just cursed.
  
  Tilt: I did not really like this game. It wasn't that good for achievements, it didn't really have 
 the racing aspect that I wanted, and it just wasn't what I expected out of the game. 6.5 I Say 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornholio360
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the Burnout series, Revenge may be worth checking out. As the 4 installation 
 in the series, Burnout Revenge lives up to it's name. There have been a few changes in the game, 
 though. You now can check the traffic that is moving with you, except for buses and trucks. Compared 
 to the earlier Burnouts, this has a great sense of speed. You'll be playing through every race 
 with your thumb on the A button the whole time most likely. Once you really get moving, you start 
 to see some motion blur. Crash mode is still in Revenge, of course. You have Traffic Attack mode, 
 where you check as much traffic that's moving with you as possible, Road Rage, and multiplayer, 
 both local and over Live. I'd highly recommend checking this game out if you don't mind not having 
 to avoid most traffic moving with you unlike in previous Burnouts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game is like all the old 90's arcade racing games, such as 'Rush', or others similar. It is 
 VERY fast paced, and it will keep you going for hours. There are many things intuitive on this 
 newest version of Burnout, and it makes it the best in the series. For one thing, the crashing 
 mode NEVER gets old, and I'm still getting 3rd place online, because I just have too much fun crashing 
 the other players into the wall. The graphics on this game are stunning, and it's hard to believe 
 this is a near release game for the XBox 360. One thing that really makes the game shine is it's 
 online play. Although the campaign will keep you busy, it's the online that you want to try. One 
 really cool thing about the online play, is that it's all recorded. After it is all said and done, 
 you can make a movie out of your run, and then share it with your friends and/or the whole world. 
 Play on gamers......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVIic
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This review will be incredibly short and sweet. To begin ill start by saying I have nothing against 
 the Burnout series. I loved Burnout three, which is why i am writing this review for Burnout 4. 
 for difficulty this game is just right..... offline..... online you have to be quite a vetran, otherwise 
 don't expect much fun from it.
  
  Below is a chart of why i gave the scores:
  
  it had the same old burnout game play thats why it got 8 for game play
  8 for graphics because 
 they were quite good but could use better sparks
  8 for sound because it made good car sounds
  8 for value because without its newest feature being 
 any good (online) , it isn't a better game to me than burnout 3, though it is only 30 dollars
  6 for reviewers tilt because thats just the way i feel, the cup is little over half full. with 
 this chart said with that chart said, i have only played the game for less than ten hours, and 
 this is just my OPINION.
  
  in other words feel free to recommend or not recommend this review as you have a right to your 
 opinion to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusFenix715
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty much amazing. i love the aracade style racing. i am a long time Burnout fan 
 and when this came out it made me happy. it brought back jumps and amazing amount of speed. burnout 
 three left me annoyed because of the traffic you had to dodge on both sides of the road. now you 
 dont have to worry about crashing into traffic going the same way as you. just awesome. im finally 
 glad they got some major jumps in teh tracks. other then that burnout plays amazingly well. not 
 much replay value though. great game if you love speed and wrecks. not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 28, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 is really the best version if you haven't played the Xbox or PS2 
 version. The game has no story other than going through a World Tour with a series of events that 
 awards you for driving dangerously. The single-player is VERY long as trying to complete all the 
 ranks from start to finish takes a long time. 2 weeks of renting this game isn't enough to finish 
 the single-player, but its interesting to play. However, it gets repetive once you realize that 
 all the events it offers up to the 3rd-5th rank. Some events are too short for you get Perfect 
 which is disapointing and it requires an hour or so to be perfect. It is a great way to unlock 
 levels and cars though.
  
  The loading times are horrible. For a next-gen game, the loading times in this game takes either 
 5-30 seconds long for starting for the first time or simply retrying. Thankfully, it only takes 
 2 seconds to retry the second time on a CRASH event. The multi-player is very fun. Whats better 
 is that now you can keep track of the person who took you down. This person would be your Burnout 
 Revenge Rival. If you take him out for your revenge, you get more points and you're no longer rivals/now 
 you're even. Their isn't much of a change in game modes but its very enjoyable to play with your 
 friends or other players.
  
  The gameplay is unlike Burnout 3: Takedown (which is my all-time favorite driving game) . Although 
 the features such as Takedown, Aftertouch, and others from the 3rd are back and the new features 
 are good, the gameplay is too much. When driving fast, its sometimes impossible to clearly see 
 whats in front of you. What's also cheap now in this game is that no matter what, anything besides 
 Oncoming can make you crash. For example, when a crate goes on you, you crash. Going right next 
 to a pole, you crash. There is even sections of the track are too cheap and very easy to crash. 
 The game is very hard for you to not crash once unless you spent a good, long time on the map. 
 It is still good once you figure out how this game works.
  
  The graphics are really superbespecially in HD. For a driving game, its unrealistic but the reality 
 of the cars crashing looks stunning, I dropped my jaw on how great it looked. The sound is also 
 great in that just hearing that boost from your car is already pleasing enough but the music that 
 is heard most of time is really bad. The tilt is also easy but sometimes when your not driving 
 forward it gets complicated to back up, but drifting is really easy to control.
  
  Overall, the game is worth a rent and if you're really impressed by what it gives then buy it. 
 The gameplay may disappoint fans of Burnout 3 and the first 2 games (Yes, I was a Burnout fan since 
 the first game and before the series got popular) such as myself but its great and pleasing if 
 taken not seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan-666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  the game has absolute class goin all the way through!! the grphics are supieror to many of the 
 racing games to date, expecially when you get to watch the other cars which you have just taken 
 out colide into a different car or even a wall!!! the online is extremely good, expecially road 
 rage even though it takes a little while to load. i also love going on the races online and annoyin 
 the people i race against by always crashing into them just before they finish the race. class!! 
 one of the downsides is the lack of different maps a game modes in story mode but online makes 
 up for this!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  I love this game it's freaking awsome to me, when i first got it i wasn't hooked up to online yet 
 so i was just killing online non-stop offline. The crashes are better and the races are crazy. 
 And the unrestricted please makes you want to be on a straight away to see if this car can hit 
 218. Online is a different story, it's even betterjust talking to everyone while just crashing 
 the into a pole or something, and you can unlock the achievements offline that you can unlck online 
 and vise versa. I know that most there is going to be another burnout but i don't tink it can get 
 better than this one. This was an amazing game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the 4th in the Burnout series. You drive through many fictional cities, either 
 against rival drivers or the clock. What sets Burnout apart from other driving games are the takedowns. 
 In Burnout Revenge, the cars are not licensed. You won't see any Jaguar's, BMW's, or Ferrari's 
 for all you car nuts out there. But what they make up with are the perfect cars. While the bigger 
 trucks obviously are just to plow right through traffic, and the lighter cars are to speed by it, 
 when you find the car you're best with, you will be flying down the street as if you have been 
 driving your whole life.
  
  Unlike other games where you simply drive past opponents, Burnout Revenge has you go and cause 
 your enemy to crash. This adds a whole new dimension of gameplay because you not only have to worry 
 about someone passing you, but also that you have to make sure they don't hit you from behind and 
 send you into oncoming traffic. Also, there is the use of crashbreakers which cause your car to 
 explode and take out all your enemies in the surrounding area after you have crashed yourself. 
 Its a nice touch and makes the game even more fun to see yourself narrowly miss your friend's explosion.
 
  
  When I first played Burnout, I automatically new that this is one of the games meant to be played 
 in Hi-Def, and Burnout definitely delivers in that department. Despite a few blemishes (A small 
 amount of lag every now and then) , Burnout is any graphic-lover's dream. When you hit an enemy 
 car, you see your car and his be damaged. Also, when you explode in one of the aforementioned crashbreakers, 
 the pieces of car fly throughout the level and make it even better.
  
  As with any driving game, sound is important. Luckily, Burnout delivers with the best sound in 
 any racing game I have heard in a long time. The soundtrack is great and has lots of big bands 
 and no stupid DJ like the other games. In addition to that, the sound effects are new and sound 
 even better. Cars drive, drift and crash realistically and it makes you think about how they got 
 the sound a car makes when it explodes so perfect.
  
  Burnout Revenge is a great game for both racing and action game players. It has all the best parts 
 of an action game mixed with a racing game. Part racing, part action. With great controls, awesome 
 graphics and ultra realistic sound, you would have to be crazy to not buy Burnout Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Fuzzybear
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The extreme speeds and wicked crashes make this game sick.
  Multiplayer is fun as hell, but playing with a friend beside you is the most fun mainly because 
 if you take em down, you can rub it in. Plus the short and small variety of tracks may seem bad, 
 but they make up for it by putting in shortcuts, and let you use reverse track. (What would be 
 sick though is if they added exploratiuon like in need for speed with burnout takedowns and COPS 
 chasing, now thats a racing game)
  
  The Bad: some music is good some just sucks, (good variety though, and crazy sound effects burning 
 in your ears) , being able to hit traffic going in your direction actually takes some fun away.
 
  
  All in all, it was very addicting, and probably one of the best multiplayer or splitscreen multiplayer 
 racing game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murisaki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the 4th in the long line of Burnout games, which started on the PlayStation 
 2 as a typical arcade racer with an enthasis on high-speed and insane crashes. However, it wasn't 
 until Burnout 3 that the series really took-off, with Revenge carrying over almost everything, 
 and adding a few new tricks of it's own such as Traffic Checking , multiple shortcuts, a reworked 
 World Tour mode, improved online play, next-generation graphics and so much more.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  + Driving at 210mph never played so well, and the sense of speed is simply breathtaking.
 
  + Mechanics such as Impact Time are still present and work as well as ever.
  + All vehicles handle differently, giving impressive variety.
  + Creative course design.
  
 
  GRAPHICS:
  + High-res textures and excellent car-models look fantastic in HD.
  + More detailed crashes add excitement.
  + Visual presentation is spot-on.
  - Mild slowdown 
 in some spots.
  - Some slight graphical bugs such as disappearing traffic.
  
  SOUND:
  + Revamped sound effects that add extra atmosphere to races.
  + Flawless soundtrack featuring 
 dozens of big names.
  + No annoying DJ.
  - Music occassionally stops playing and must be played again manually.
  
  VALUE:
  + Challenging 
 World Tour Mode with enough variety to last, and an impressive learning curve.
  + Nice variety of achievements.
  + X-Box Live support is quick, easy and works like a charm.
 
  - Local multiplayer seems a tiny bit shallow.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  Not being a huge fan of racing games, I can honestly say that Burnout Revenge is a success through-and-through. 
 It looks amazing, handles like a dream and is just simply the most exciting game I've ever played. 
 Just get this game, an X-Box 360, an HDTV and then crank the sound up, and you'll experience an 
 adrenaline rush that you've never experienced before. Criterion, I applaud you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oshaun123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the perfect car destruction game for the XBOX 360. The graphics are above and 
 beyond what they are on the ps2 (for obvious reasons) , gameplay is superb, and the soundtrack is 
 one of the best i have ever heard in years. The basic objective of this game and all the other 
 burnout games is to make as much destrcution as humanly possible. The cars are exactly the kind 
 of thing that this game is meant for, fast, brutal destruction. The soundtrack suits this game 
 in every aspect. With band like Fall Out Boy to Maximo Park to the brutal and unrelenting Bullet 
 For My Valentine. This soundtrack has a song for every track and for every car (not to mention every 
 type of gamer) . If you have played past Burnout titles then you owe it yourself to check this one 
 out. The only real flaws that are in this game are that some times it will have collision detection 
 problems in the form of your car flying thousands of miles into the air. While funny this will 
 happen quite a few times during your gameplay. While it is long and challenging this title is well 
 worth its weight in gold so to say. I highly recommend this game to anyone who loves cars and destruction 
 all in one high resolution package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joceaa8
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game just amazed me i meen what is there to do in this game? You race... you crash and wait 
 to see all the stupid people who dont bother stopping... you crash other cars... you tailgate other 
 car... you race... you crash other cars and over and over and over again you do that, it gets old 
 after the first day. This game has nothing to do in it exept racing, no costumisation, no tuning, 
 no free roam, no nothing. thankfully the racing is kind of fun but after the racing gets old or 
 like me you are just too pissed at crashing every 20 second and waiting 5 second to start driving 
 again, you have nothng left to do. I dont know what other people see in this game that is so great, 
 the graphics are good though. The sound is kind of annoying because the whole race your engine 
 is at its highest rpm and sound as if its about to explode. So realy i dont recommend this unless 
 you REALY like the gameplay and it will never get old for you. but i didint realy like the gameplay 
 that much because you cant see were your going because it makes you feel like your going 1000 mph 
 but realy your going quite slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  well i gotta say EA did very well on this one the nice graphics fun cool gameplay and nice sound 
 effects but the laws of physics for this are broken just like in flatout 2 i mean you take a fast 
 SPORTS CAR and your going at 100 mph and you hit a SUV!!!! then the SUV goes flying 50 feet i mean 
 come on people! even though that barely messes up the game i love it can get a little boring but 
 the little mini-games like blowing up and crashing into as many things as you can is awesome BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH hate 
 the 100 word limit thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BustaSag
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I've always liked Burnout since the first one. I bought this game as soon as it came out for PS2. 
 I had to add this game to my 360 collection. The graphics are better to my surprise &amp; even 
 playing it on a 19 inch TV, (lol) it still had me leaning back &amp; forth along with jumping off 
 the couch when the least expected crash happens. I love this game, you should check it out. What's 
 better than your average racing game? A racing game that makes you go faster for the more cars 
 you hit. This is the kind of game you don't have to rent first. Trust me, you'll get your moneys 
 worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sooshy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great sense of speed and awesome multiplayer.
  The Bad: Can be very frustrating at times.
  
  Burnout Revenge is the follow-up to the critically 
 acclaimed Burnout 3. If you've played Burnout 3, then you know exactly what to expect here since 
 it plays almost exactly the same, except for a few new additions such as traffic checking, a redone 
 World Tour mode, and the wonderfully done multiplayer.
  
  As great as Revenge is, there are a few flaws that detract from the game a little bit, such as: 
 the sometimes questionable track design (things placed oddly on the tracks just to make you crash) , 
 the cheap A. I. (I've had on coming traffic blatantly turn into me from another lane) , and to a 
 lesser extent, the crap music.
  
  While it can be extremely frustrating at times, there's more than enough greatness for you to look 
 past the bad and appreciate the direction Criterion has taken the Burnout series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitboxdude25
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  if you look at a box an xbox360 comes in, you'll notice it usually comes with a game, some have 
 call of duty2 or madden2006 mine had burnout, and thats exactly why i would own it, because it was 
 free.
  
  now, let me get this straight.. its a fun game, full of mans best friend, thats right, exploding 
 cars. and hey, its also a racing game. but the thing is, if you put it down, you feel like you can 
 do without it.. when some games are like attachments to your body, this one kind of feels like wearing 
 pants on a sunday afternoon... its like is it really necesary? 
  
  the gameplay is like every other car game, plus a button that can make your car ummm explode.
 
  the graphics are mediocre, it is an upgrade from the original xbox, but the point is it should 
 have done ALOT better
  the sounds was great. loved the eatracks, also the sound of a takedown off a cliff was like hearing 
 a baby laugh... it just makes you smile.
  the tilt should be around high 6 early 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hq3000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  One of the prettiest racers to play. The game makes my heart pound and frustrates me to no end. 
 I do not enjoy racers, but this one seems like a good be to spend 30 dollars on. The graphics are 
 bumped up from the PS2 version, and it just makes the whole experience that much enjoyable. I was 
 hoping that I could play it more but my friends have it and i haven't seen them in a few weeks. 
 I'm assuming that the next BO will be more stylish and better to look at than this one. Its just 
 a great game and great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I never was a fan of racing games until I played Burnout Revenge. It's a fast 
 paced racing game with a twist. You can take down the other drivers. If you are against racing 
 games that are too realistic then this is the game for you. This is not a realistic game like Project 
 Gotham Racing, but a Mario Kart type game where having fun is the prime priority. The online in 
 the game is great. I would classify the game difficulty as hard because it takes a bit to get use 
 to the tracks and some of the events are crazy hard. One negative aspect of the game is the lack 
 of tracks in the Xbox Live mode. Overall, try this game out if you are a fan of racing games or 
 if you aren't because this game will easily change your mind as it did for me. If you enjoy Mario 
 Kart type racing games this game will please you alot. The game is also pretty cheap now so it's 
 a really good pickup. The lifespan on this game can range anywhere from 10-100 hours depending 
 how much time you want to put in. 50 hours into the game and I still have a long way to go because 
 the game has a huge lifespan but online and offline. Also, I have had a number of tournaments with 
 friends on this game. There is a mode will you have to get the to 'x' # of takedowns. First to 
 it wins the race. This mode is so much fun with friends. Overall, rent Burnout Revenge first and 
 see if you enjoy this type of racing. If you do you can pick it up for cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunotSoldier_94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is one of the best racing games ever. The gameplay and storyline i only have 4 
 words fun, long, and crazy. The graphics for this u already probably know i have a standard tv 
 and the graphics still look real. The sound is amazing it feels real and like loud. The Xbox live 
 is great u play versus ur friends or strangers and u can unlock achievements, If u have any other 
 version of the game u shouldnt get this one unless u feel like wasting 60 dollars more because 
 there not a lot new to see. If u dont have any version and u have a 360 and u gonna buy the game 
 u should get this version because is more realistic and a lot better (but not much) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethnrule
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is indeed a good game, and I really enjoyed playing it. I love racing, road rashing, 
 and traffic checking. It was a fun game and here is my review:
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game were quite good and excellent. There is no complaint here 
 I say.
  
  Controls: The controls for this game were easy to get used to and easy to learn. Which is a very 
 good this to most gamers.
  
  Sound: The sound and music on the game was awesome!
  
  Replay Value: Its fun until you beat the game and its Crash modes, and when theres nothing to do 
 it losses it value.
  
  Pros: Amazing graphics and crashes. Especially love the Road Rage modes.
  
  Cons: Replay Value 
 isn't that great and the Crash modes have lost their fun sense Burnout 3
  
  Overall: Worth Playing! I give it a 8.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  This game was a game i wanted beacuse i am fimilar with the Burnout series and i just got me 360 
 and this game was full price for ages ($120) but finaly during boxing day sales (AUS) the price 
 was $60 i read this in the Big W magazine and within minutes i had got on my bike and i was in 
 there buying this. I got home and played i it was a very good racing game and the racing violent 
 action was intence but there was one problem.... my TV any HD and the game seems to be darker on 
 thr screan and racing can be hard to see what in dakr places in the game the HD thing in my house 
 is my computer moniter. and 2P mode is hours of fun and last off all the crash mode is perfect 
 as always so any fan of burout and just like racing games this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I have played Burnout Take Down and another version in France so I don't know which one it was. 
 I know for a fact that this Burnout has plenty to add. Lets go through single player first. The 
 ranking system is something to keep you playing until you beat it. Also the new mode, traffic attack, 
 is a great new mode, along with traffic checking. The revenge rivals don't do much, it just gives 
 you someone specific to take out, instead of just taking it out on everyone.
  Traffic attack really brings out the game's new main feature, traffic checking. Traffic is a good 
 way to get boost or take down rivals. You can run into traffic in the side of the road (or left 
 side for non-USA tracks) and you will gain a bit of boost and the car you ran into will go flying 
 through the air as if it was as light as a teddy bear. As if super fast cars constantly going 209 
 MPH, flying over huge jumps, racing to get in first place, while simultaneously trying to take 
 down the other racers wasn't enough. Unfortunately, the only traffic that you can't check are buses, 
 18 wheelers, and other big vehicles.
  
  Crash mode is fun, with different levels of crash breakers and plenty of explosions. Nothing much 
 new really, but as they say If it aint broke don't fix it . Only the new way to get Crashbreaker 
 and the new wind riding.
  
  Burning Lap is fun because you get to go fast, but is frustrating later because if you crash once 
 you have to restart the level to get gold.
  
  Race and Lap Knockout are fun because they are two things in one. A race and a demolition derby 
 combined in one. Even though this has been in pretty much every Burnout game as far as I can remember, 
 there are now Crashbreaker races, where you can get revenge on somebody that takes you out by blowing 
 up. The only problem is, is that if somebody takes you out by a vertical takedown or traffic check 
 takedown then you can get your rival a bit too easily. Going at about 200 miles an hour makes it 
 hard to see what is coming up, and you run into things pretty often. Some people may complain about 
 this but it gives the game a very sharp edge of people yelling, HOLY CRAP THAT WAS CLOSE! and HOLY 
 CRAP I CRASHED?!? .
  
  Road Rage is pretty much the same as well, except with crashbreaker later on in the game. For those 
 of you who don't know, Road Rage is where you don't race for position, your try to kill as many 
 people as you can before time runs out, or before your car breaks down due to damage.
  
  Two player is pretty much the same as one player except with two people. The same modes are there 
 too. The only problem is that there is no slow motion.
  
  Even better than two player is Xbox Live. There are always plenty of people on to play, and if 
 you are a beginner you don't have to worry. Not everybody there is a super pro. There are a bunch 
 of them but you will always be able to find somebody you can beat. The people on Xbox Live aren't 
 nearly as annoying as the 3 year olds you find on first person shooters. The people are usually 
 very nice and have a good sense of humor. You wont find any of those little 3 year olds because 
 this game is a lot harder than a first person shooter on Xbox Live. Xbox Live gives this game a 
 good heaping helping of replay value. Plus, when you take somebody down you get a message saying 
 New Revenge Rival! and everybody racing your gets a message saying FakeName1 takes down FakeName2 
 (But if you get taken down you get embarrassed.)
  
  The Xbox 360 gives this game better graphics and a higher frame rate, but with all the chaos going 
 on in the game there are still a few times when the frame rate goes down. Overall a great game, 
 probably the game with the most replay value that I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicAgent
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge, which started out on the Xbox and PS2, is re-made for the 7th generation with 
 its entry on the Xbox 360. The re-badged game does not offer that much in the way of improved graphics 
 (well I don't have hi-def so maybe I can't tell that much of a difference) . The sound however is 
 quite good with almost-realistic sounds when you boost and crash. The gameplay is quite fun, even 
 though there are not as many tracks as in Burnout 3. There are still an ample amount of players 
 playing this game online, and all of the many single player events are back, from Grand Prix races 
 to Takedown trials to crash intersections. Another factor that makes the 360 version better is 
 of course the ability to earn achievements. But most of all, the inclusion of rivalries makes the 
 big difference. The game saves whatever takedowns you have against another player and displays 
 them whenever you race them. However, once they take you out, the score is settled, no matter how 
 many takedowns you have on them. The online racing is quite fun, and there are still an ample number 
 of people online to play against. The game can get quite fun an addicting as you watch others cry 
 as you take them out. Sure, there could have been better graphics and maybe more realism (the traffic 
 checking is kind of uncalled for) , but nontheless this is a fine racing experience on the Xbox 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calcheesmo
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game a decent amount, against some friends, and on xbox live, and honestly, I 
 just don't see where the hype is coming from. It's a sweet racing game. It seems like you get boosts 
 wayyyy too much and the cars are going so fast that when you crash you don't even see it coming. 
 It definitely has its cool features but give me a more realistic game like Gran Turismo or a really 
 fake game like Mario Kart and I'd be much happier. It seems like Burnout tries to mix the two games 
 by having more realistic cars with goofy things happening like blowing up your car and turbo boosting 
 constantly. Not a terrible racing game but I get really sick of playing after about 15 minutes. 
 This is just my own opinion, I'm sure there are tons of you out there who get off playing games 
 like this, but it's just not for me.... to each his own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun Ive been playing it for a little while now and it keeps getting more intense. 
 There are only a few things that I dont like about it like you cant really do anything to cars 
 but thats not what this game is about its about blowin $hit up lol. So yeah that it does really 
 well the graphics are pretty nice and the cars control well to. The music on the game is ok they 
 have stuff like Avenged Sevenfold, CKY, blah blah ext but in any case this is a pretty neat game 
 sometimes so if ya like racing and blowing stuff up then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to my Burnout Revenge Review I hope this helps you out and possibly convinces you to buy 
 this game.
  
  The Good: The online is awesome, World Tour is quite challenging, sound is great, great soundtrack, 
 tons of race types.
  
  The Bad: The graphics are very good don't get me wrong but they could have been better, one of 
 the achievements is ridiculous (if you are an achievement person) .
  
  Let's start with the World Tour or (Career Mode) . It is very challenging to get a perfect rating 
 in all of the events and it will last you a good amount of time trying to get that perfect rating 
 in all of the events. Also there are a lot of different kinds of events such as my favorite the 
 Crash events where you cause a crash and you have to cause a certain amount of damage to accumulate 
 money.
  
  And now for the online. The online is very good there are always a ton of races going on so it 
 doesn't have dead online like Blitz the League does. The most common type of event played online 
 is the basic race. There are a lot of good Burners online so it might take you a while to start 
 winning. You can also take 30 second clips of any event you do in the world tour and share it online 
 for others to view, and this is where the ridiculous achievement comes in. To get it you must have 
 a clip in the top 20 clip list which basically means about 200+ people have to view it.
  
  In conclusion if you don't have this game for your Xbox 360 yet go buy it now because it have you 
 addicted from the first race you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo24
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge on the Xbox 360 is so sweet and it's all about revenge.
  
  Even though the game is sweet one the other consoles it's nothing compared to the 360.
  The details 
 that went in to the game is insane, everything from the tip of the grass
  to the details of you vehicle and you're surroundings are unbelievable.
  
  The sounds in this 
 game is a chapter for it self, if you have a sorrundsystem in you're
  home you better crank up the volume.
  
  The rumbles from the engines going from 0 to 10,000 
 rpm's is insane.
  Or when you going 100mph+ and wreck the car the sounds are amazing.
  
  Take the game online and you got a hole new game that only the 360
  version can. Find you're 
 self a race and race it, if you are taken out then the revenge
  system kicks in so you can hunt that sucker down, in the same race or later.
  The game keeps 
 a revenge list for you and lets you know when he is online and racing so
  you can hunt him down and kick his butt.
  
  I give it 10/10
  
  Gizmo24 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotchicken324
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is all about cars just crashing into each other. That might sound stupid but after 
 you're done with the second level, you won't want to stop playing. I love the cars they put in 
 there. You need to do special things to get them and beleive me, they will want you to throw your 
 controller on the ground but it will be worth it. So my opinion is, go out and buy this game right 
 now! Xbox, 360, PS2, whatever console you want for it, it will be the best buy. Well that is it 
 for my review for this superb game. I'm hotchicken324 saying, drive safe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game in the Burnout series that I've played so I can't compare it to previous 
 titles in the series. That being said, this game is about as fun as a racing game can get! The 
 cars are very cool although it would have been nice to see a little more variety. Most of the cars 
 you use outside of crash events are euro sports car. Not that that's a bad thing but I would have 
 liked to see some more classic muscle cars in the mix.
  
  My only real complaint about the game is the achievements. Most of them are incredibly difficult 
 if not virtually impossible. What are the odds of taking down the same guy online 100 times? Achievements 
 really aren't important to me. As long as I enjoy playing I've gotten what I set out for and Burnout 
 Revenge delivers from beginning to end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assailant07
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok first the graphics. They are awsome. period. gameplay is good except the only thing is that the 
 crash junctions are to hard which really pi**** me off. THe sound is alright the music sometimes 
 gets on your nerves when your losing though. The game is pretty to learn i mean gas RT and boost 
 A.
  The only hard part in playing is how welll you drive the car. The cars look good and the crashes 
 and crashbreakers are awsome. The only thing I dont like about the game is the GOD D** BURNING 
 LAPS!!!! THere too hard and 90% of the tracks are too dark to even see where your going. Overall 
 its the best racing game on 360 no it IS the best racing game..... EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I use to have an Xbox and had Burnout for that system. I loved the game and was even able to get 
 my wife to play the crash games. With my 360, Burnout Revenge was the first game I bought. I simply 
 don't regret getting it. This game has much improved graphics, its an amazingly fun game to play 
 and the addition of the achievements makes me want to play it even more.
  If you enjoy racing and crashing into others, this is the game for you. Its more fun to take people 
 out than to finish in first place. The best is if you get the takedowns and finish in first. Online 
 play via Xbox Live is simple and easy to do. My favorite part of the Live experiance has been the 
 good quality of players I have meet online. There is a great group of people playing and loving 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I grew up on Gran Turismo's 1-4 and have since played mainly driving simulation games such as TOCA, 
 Project Gotham's etc... and that's mainly the reason why I enjoy this game, it's anything but realistic. 
 It's very much a change of pace for me and it's drawn me to this game even more. The Crash mode 
 is awesome (gotta love causing destruction and mayhem) and there's nothing quite like getting a 
 Takedown to take the lead on the last lap for the win, especially if that takedown is for 'Revenge.' 
 The visuals are crisp and you definitely feel the sense of speed with the oncoming traffic zipping 
 by. There's plenty of cars to unlock and tracks to choose from and I feel all the better about 
 purchasing it due to the price being so low. It's very difficult to complain about a game that 
 plays smoothly, looks great and is in this price range. If you like arcade type racers and you're 
 looking for something to pick up and play this is the game to get. Like I said before I've always 
 been more of a realistic driving fan but 'Revenge' has won me over... I'll be looking forward to 
 Burnout 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTrueEdge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  + Fast paced, extreme action
  + Great online multiplayer component
  + Best version of the game
  
  - Tracks are often re-used
  
  Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 
 360 is basically the same as Revenge on the PS2 and Xbox. If you have played this game to death 
 on those systems, there is probably not enough here to go for a second spin. However, if you haven't 
 played it, or never completed it, you are in for a treat.
  
  As said it's basically the same game as the one that was released on the PS2 and Xbox. But this 
 version has tuned up graphics and sound, a more interesting multiplayer component due to some simple 
 but neat added features and the satisfying added achievements to be gained. In comparision with 
 the other versions, Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 is the best version available.
  
  Like always, Burnout is all about crashes and taking down you're opponent to get to the finish 
 line first. There are plenty of different modes in Revenge like; Race, Eliminator Race, Road Rage, 
 Burning Laps, Crash Events and all the other modes you remember from the previous installment, 
 Takedown. This time, it has a new mode called Traffic Attack. In Burnout Revenge you can now actually 
 'check' same way small traffic, shooting them forward, taking down opponents and other traffic. 
 This is a satisfying new feature that makes the action even more spectacular then it already was. 
 In Traffic Attack, you're goal is to check traffic and keep ramming through until you've gained 
 the amount of damage in cash that you're aiming for. In the first few races it's easy, you just 
 ram through traffic, seeing all cars exploding forward, crashing into one another. In later races 
 though, big traffic is added. Like trucks. They cannot be checked and you will crash if you try 
 to do so. In the end, you'll end up with wrong way traffic heading you're way and only few same 
 way small traffic. Also new in Revenge is the Crashbreaker. This feature was known in Crash Events, 
 but now, the Crashbreaker can also be used in certain races after crashing. This changes the game 
 somewhat since anyone who takes you down, could be in for some payback from you while you crash. 
 You blow up you're car, taking you're rival down with you.
  
  Rivals are an important feature for Burnout Revenge X360. In the online component, you're rivals 
 are actually tracked. When you enter an online race and someone takes you down, it will show on 
 the record you were taken down by this guy. If he takes you down three times, it will show that 
 that guy took you down three times without you getting any revenge on him. Offcourse, you want 
 that record to go away. By taking down that rival once, no matter how many times he took you down, 
 it sweepes the record clean and there is no rivalry anymore and you can stop worrying about him. 
 This is an interesting and mostly, well working added feature to the already great online component 
 the Xbox and PS2 had. It's awesome to see rivalries form up. Once you've taken down a guy, you 
 often hear: 'I'm coming to get you, dude' in you're headset as the person you've taken down wants 
 Revenge on you. Not only is it a cool little gimmick, but it really sets a perfect vibe and community 
 for Burnout Revenge. And that is, getting revenge on each other. Burnout was never more fun to 
 play online because of this. The Achievements in Burnout Revenge are pretty well done. There are 
 allot of progress achievements. You will get an achievement for every rank you complete with perfect 
 ratings. Perfect ratings are achieved by getting an 'Awesome' rating in a race due to racing aggressively 
 and at the same time scoring the Gold Medal. A Awesome rating and Gold Medal in a race equal a 
 Perfect Rating for that race. You get an achievement for perfecting all races in a rank, for every 
 rank. You also gain achievments for having a certain number of takedowns, revenge takedowns and 
 signature takedowns. There are also some online achievements revolving wins in races, Crash Events 
 and Road Rage. However, one of the achievements is almost impossible. It requires you to get a 
 Burnout Clip in the Top 20 clips. Which means the clip must be downloaded by more then 100 Burnout 
 Players. This seems a bit steep and unfair. Other then that everything is reasonably achieveable.
 
  
  In the end, Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 is just a blast to play. In both single as multiplayer 
 modes. The added rivalry feature adds up to the community and makes it one of the best gaming communities 
 out there. If you are into arcade racing, Revenge is a title that not only can't be missed, but 
 is most likely the best, most enjoyable title you'll find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Some will disagree with me... those being the Need for Speed fans, the Project Gotham Racing Fans, 
 or the Test Drive fans. But this is my opinion, and my opinion is that this is the best Arcade 
 racing experience you can have to date. Burnout 5 and Burnout Dominator have a challenge on their 
 hand to surpass this game.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  While it isn't perfect, their is no denying how tight the controls arein this game, whether your 
 crashing, racing, or taking down your rivals. And their is no such thing as perfect since there 
 will always be better and more tighter controls. But this game hit it with its tightness. It is 
 something all can like. Yes, it has a learning curve to it since as the speed of the cars increase, 
 controlling them becomes different and sometimes much more difficult. However, this is part of 
 challenging you. This game challenges you like it should... ok, you got that event mastered, now 
 lets spice it up some more. Graphics: 10/10
  The game is absolutely gorgeus on the Xbox 360. Everything has had an upgrade the crashes, cars, 
 road, lighting, sense of speed, and explosions. This game, at times, made the Xbox version look 
 ugly compared to it. This was a next-gen version to be proud of and showed that it wasn't some 
 simple port. But, even if you consider it a port, its of a game that already had some amazing visuals 
 to boot. Again, nothing is perfect, and Gears of War just showed us that graphics are always evolving, 
 but this game is at the correct amount of visuals. Burnout 5 will be up a notch!
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Everything, even the EA trax, work great together. The songs they decided on for 
 this game were an amazing mix. Lets not forget the engines, crushing of metal, glass breaking, 
 and more. To make this even better, both the Xbox and Xbox 360 versions had custom tracks, but 
 you never really had to turn them on since the EA trax were very well done and great to listen 
 to while playing this type of game.
  
  Value: 10/10
  The game is now under $30 bucks on Xbox 360, and is about to hit $10 on PS2 and Xbox. So do it 
 a favor and buy a copy. The valuve is that it has over 30 hours of events to do, and an online 
 mode that lets you do pretty much any event online with up to 5 other racers. I say tis an amazing 
 deal for such an amazing game.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  I love Burnout Revenge. This is the second time I have completed the world tour for this game, 
 the first time being on the excellent Xbox version. This game is very amazing. My compliants for 
 it are merely what can be done better in Burnout 5 but I wouldn't care that much if they were changed. 
 The game is one of my top games of all time, and will stay there if Burnout 5 isn't any better. 
 As I said, Burnout 5 has a ton to live up to for me.
  
  Overall: 10.0/10.0
  
  I really loved this game and truly believe this is the best racer to date. Buy it and enjoy it. 
 I know there will be people who do not enjoy this game as much as I do, but I do want them to know 
 that hey, at least you tried the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur543
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Burnout games have been about one thing. TRASH ALL THE OTHER CARS.
  The next gen debut is visually stunning and addictive.
  Shards of glass fly everywhere, broken 
 doors fly off their hinges, cars soar through the air... This is my kind of game! The crashes are 
 extremely satisfying, and the obvious highlight of the game (Hell, theres a mode dedicated to it!) 
 and even though most of the game is about racing, youll wanna smash other cars to bits just for 
 the eye candy.
  
  Sound is terrific, too! Everything plays smoothly, even though the EA sound track can get HORRIBLY 
 repetitive... maybe they could have put more songs in there on each patch.
  Speaking of which, you can download cars from the Marketplace.
  
  Gameplay is where the game 
 starts to drag; it DOES get repetitive, and there are only a couple of modes to choose from, and 
 usually the only differences between missions is that they'll increase in difficulty, and crashing, 
 all though extremely satisfying, will start to lose its fun factor.
  
  Its a good game, but there are a few things they should smooth out for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac81
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Criteion games, when making Revenge, had a massive challenge before them when trying to build on 
 the already successful series, Burnout. Revenge, the 4th title in the series, has all the much 
 loved features of previous versions and has been loaded up with faster action and a very addictive 
 multiplayer mode.
  
  The games has a good blend of crash sites, races, knockouts and traffic check levels in each of 
 the stages. This unique style arcade racing game hits all the right notes with high speed races, 
 destructive crash intersections and brutal takedowns. The new rival system is great, giving you 
 the chance to take out a car that has caused you grief. The single player mode is fantastic fun 
 without seeming repetitive. The stages fly by, and before you know it the clock rings in at 4am 
 while you strive to get to each new stage.
  
  Nothing is more satisfying as getting revenge on a rival online. The multiplayer mode keeps track 
 of any gamertag (only on X360) that has taken you down and you can meet them in a race at a later 
 date and dish out your payback. With headset communication the online races can be quite entertaining 
 and you can trash talk all you want as you crush people halfway around the world into the walls 
 going for that win.
  
  All in all, a simple but well worth purchase for Xbox 360. One of the best launch titles for the 
 system and should now be in the budget game price range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  this has to be one of the best racing games ever ( beside need for speed underground ) . Like come 
 on, the graphics are to drool on, anyone can play , even my 3 year old cousin, andyou can still 
 get challenges by tryin to get the achivement ( witch these are a real challenge ) . Evry racing 
 u cant crash ur you lose the race. But in this one you can make your foes crash and well that gives 
 you a second chance. Theres even crash mode wich is realy fun with budies since you race for the 
 best crash location. And the sound track isint made only of hip-hop and rap! plus it aint no crapy 
 band!
  this game gets my vote baby!
  
  yours truly ..... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Ice11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  This was my first game for the 360 and I was amazed at how well this game is graphically, gameplay, 
 and controlling wise. It is a great game to just smash up cars, create huge pileups, and drive 
 at the speed of light. This game almost makes you have tunnel vision while your playing it. To 
 start off, this is the first Burnout game I have played. So I really can't compare and go into 
 too much detail as to how much different it is from the other past releases. However, Revenge is 
 a great graphic game. The graphics are so nice, it's like you want to say it's pretty. The car 
 details are just awesome. So are the Aftertouch Slow Motion detials. It's amazing at how the pieces 
 of the car just fly everywhere and affect how your opponents have to try to get around it all without 
 crashing. Very realistic with that concept.
  
  The controls of Revenge are quite simple and very easy to get comfortable and adjust to. There 
 isnt much to explain about that, and it's a good thing that there shouldnt be as well. Controls 
 on a racing game should be simple and easy to use, and Revenge accomplishes that feat with ease.
 
  
  The whole concept of the gameplay of the game is quite entertaining. You have to unlock other events 
 by completeing previous events with a good score and a medal unlock. The game offers a somewhat 
 wide variety of what to unlock and achieve. However the journey it takes to open up all these achievements 
 and rankings get rather boring and repetitive. Overall this is a great game to play if your just 
 looking for something fun and no storyline to follow without getting lost and taking away the interest 
 of the game itself. This wont disappoint when you a group of friends play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge, has three main races. Crash, Burning Lap, and Race. Race and Burning lap are horrible. 
 Burning lap is nearly impossible, Races are a little better but still don't make up for the crap 
 gameplay of Burning Lap.
  
  One thing that makes up for that though. Crash mode. Crash mode is by far the best thing about 
 Burnout. Crashes make you think, what car do I hit. Where do I go to cause the biggest crash possible. 
 They really keep you hooked.
  
  The main point of Burnout Revenge is to Perfect every event. ( Stupid Perfectionists :-p) Some 
 of those events can be incredibly easy. Some of them can be so hard you want to throw your 360 
 outside. To move up the ranks in Burnout Revenge you must get stars from events, if you get Perfect, 
 you get 5 stars. If you get awesome you get 4. And if you get good, you get 3. It's usually around 
 40-60 stars to advance to the next rank.
  
  If you're really a long time lover of the Burnout series, this game is for you. Even if you're 
 just getting into the series. Burnout Revenge is for anyone pretty much, as most people I know 
 enjoy cause multi-million dollar crashes.
  Burnout Revenge earns a well fought for 8.4, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  If you're new to the Burnout series, don't waste reading this: go and buy Revenge right now!
  
  Revenge takes the Burnout franchise to the next level, or shall I say, the next gen.
  
 
  Of course, it's only the first try, so don't except anything groundbreaking.
  Revenge on the 360 is just faster and prettier than the Revenge you can play on PS2 or Xbox1. However, 
 if you do not own this game on a previous gen console, this is a must have, or if you are a fan 
 of the series... this is a must have.
  
  Graphically the game's been improved: much better lighting, much sharper picture (especially in 
 HD) , more detailed textures and damage modelling... and the list goes on. However, the game engine 
 remained unchanged so despite the improvements the game's graphics is far from next gen, however, 
 it does look good.
  
  The framerate, because of that, is rockstable. Not like it wasn't stable on Xbox1... but here, well, 
 it's even better.
  
  The challenges are the same, here and there you get a few new tracks, cars, but again: nothing 
 major.
  
  Overally, the game is a polished version of it's Xbox1 predeccessor, but it's still damn good. 
 Nothing beats nitro'ing at 220mph while taking down your oppenents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  This is Burnout Revenge for the XBOX 360, it is one of the first titles to be on Microsoft's next 
 gen console and it is a very good game.
  
  To starts off with , like all the other Burnout games , this game is defininetly the best on the 
 XBOX 360 console, having said that there are some slight issues NOT MAjor! but slightly dissapointing.
 
  
  First off, the game's graphics are better but you still think hmmmm...... isn; t this like my XBOX 
 version or something along those lines....... but the graphics are still great the definition on 
 the cars the damage to the cars , explosions it's ALL GREAT! n'all but soesn't feel like it's at 
 the next gen version.
  
  Ofocurse the game still has it's world tour, multiplayer but WHERE'S THE SINGLE EVENT&gt;&gt; like 
 in Burnout 3???? gamers maybe dissapointed with this though it shouldn't put them off.
  
  This game should NOT be avoided if you are a Burnout fan however if you have the XBOX version and 
 don't mind spending an extra &pound;10/$15 then is the game for you.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjserkland
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Easily the best one in the series. It has a lot of room for improvement in areas such as sound, 
 graphics, and general design; but I can't say I haven't had an awesome time taking down my wife 
 into oncoming traffic. Some of the fun of Burnout Takedown was lost with the new scoring system 
 for the crash mode, and the design wasn't as appealing to me as the previous iteration, but I still 
 had many belly laughs over the amounts of mayhem created in this game. The addition of a new gameplay 
 mode called traffic check also does a lot to put this game in the realm of should play if you're 
 a racing game fan. This game is generally ho-hum but once again it is the on-line and system-link 
 multiplay that raises this title to a worthwhile status. Oh and the new damage model on the cars 
 is vastly improved. Now, If only I could wreck a Lamborghini and see the horror of a $350,000 super 
 car fall into its constituent fiberglass pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someone_Kill_Me
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the second game in the burnout series i've played. It looks beautiful, especially on high-def. 
 The gameplay is basically the same as the rest, just a few changes to the interface and awards 
 n such. The carnage has never looked so good, wrecks looking amazingly realistic, especially in 
 crash events. The only problems i've had with this game so far are just a few times when i crashed 
 i have one of those how the f**k did that happen? moments and it's frozen up once. If you're a 
 fan of the burnout series then definetly add this to your collection. If this series is new to 
 you, pick it up anyways i'm sure you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I generaly dont like racing games but burnout revenge is an exception to that. I love the aspect 
 of crashing cars. The graphics are really good but not the best i have seen from a game. What really 
 makes this game fun is just the gameplay. Racing, crashing, blowing cars up, its all so fun! my 
 sugestion would be to pick this game up, its now about $30, but i bought it for $40. The only thing 
 that makes me sort of dissapointed would be its hard. Not to hard but in some parts its just to 
 hard. Its a pretty long game at that. So go pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  For the fist time playing a driving game you can actually earn points for causing major accidents. 
 I think if they included some weapons every once in a while it would of spiced it up a bit. The 
 game pace is fast and fierce and you heart will stop when you are on a good run and you hit a pillar 
 and 200 mph. With Xbox 360 I would of expected a little more detail on the accidents and mowing 
 down a pedestrian every once in a while would of been cool too. But it is FAST! When you are a 
 top speed with boot on you feel like you are flying and you get a great sensation of being in control. 
 Great game worth playing very fun to watch the crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Who ever said 4th times the charm? I did! This is game is really really unique. I never thought 
 Burnout would finally come to this. Racing and crashing!?! Now thats a great mix! So whenever you 
 get mad at the game you just turbo and WHAM! hit the guy off the track! Its soooo fun. There is 
 a great variety of cars to choose from. There are plenty of levels to keep you occupied for quite 
 awhile. Within the levels you have a few different modes. There is Crash, where you pretty much 
 just... crash. There are regular races where you race to the finish. There is also a crash breaker 
 race, the funnest race yet. Play and figure out why. You get ranks in this game. I dont know how 
 high it goes... yet... but they go high. The higher the rank, the cooler you are. Well, this game 
 is, know bout adoubt it, worth getting! Must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadman618
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I am always looking for a game that will allow me to let friends join in as a party game. This 
 one has it. The CRASH mode allows you to take people who have no experience in the game to sit 
 down and after a few turns, have a great time with it. I had played this game all the way through 
 for the original xbox and had been looking for a game for a year that would be a good party game. 
 I decided that I just needed to go back and purchase this game again. The graphics are better on 
 the 360 but the game play is almost exactly the same at the original x-box but they add some additional 
 crash scenarios in the 360. It has been almost a year since I had played on the original so it 
 has been fun playing again, but not that much of a difference to make it worth the purchase (other 
 than the party mode mentioned above that I had been missing. Overall, it is truly a unique and 
 fun game with different challenges than your normal racing game. If you have not played it before, 
 it is worth the purchase and with the price coming down as it ages, it is worth the cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cspiffo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  There is nothing like playing a racer to get your adrenaline pumping. Revenge is the culmination 
 of all of the great Burnout games that have been released throughout the years. The formula is 
 getting a little old, but if you have never played Burnout before then this is the one to play. 
 I like the addition of being able to smash through traffic in the same direction. There's no other 
 racer that matches the speed that Burnout offers. This is hands down the fastest and most heart-pounding 
 racer on the market. You always feel like you are just barely in control of your car and the crashes 
 are magnificent! You can almost feel it in you chest once your car is abruptly dismantled by an 
 oncoming truck. The game starts you out with a clean car with fresh coat of paint and by the end, 
 if you are playing the game right, your car looks like it's barley drivable. This game has wonderful 
 graphics on the 360, but they are by no means the best of what the system has to offer. This is 
 after all a port of the same game on the PS2 and XBOX. You will not be disappointed if you pick 
 this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  I can't say anything other than I love Burnout Revenge to bits. This is racing at its most intense, 
 and the simple controls really keep you coming back for more. In fact you can play the whole game 
 using the two triggers, the A button and the left analog stick. The sense of speed you get when 
 boosting is great, no thanks to the top notch graphics. Crash modelling is outstanding, although 
 thats only to be expected from the Burnout series. The variety of game modes is good fun, from 
 classic races to traffic attack, where the aim is to knock as many 'civillian' cars off the road 
 as possible within a time limit. As in all racing games split screen is great, whilst multiplayer 
 is slightly underwhelming, perhaps owing to the fact that not many people are using it anymore. 
 Still, the length of the single-player career mode will keep you occupied for weeks. I would only 
 comment on the lack of tracks (although each can be played several ways) and the primitive AI. 
 However neither detracts from what is undoubtedly the 360s flagship racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This is my first foray into the Burnout universe. Sure I have played the game at various times 
 over the course of the series at buddies houses or whatever, but this is my first purchase. While 
 I did have a lot of fun playing this game, at times, this is also a very irritating game because 
 of some glaring flaws that need to be fixed.
  
  The Burnout series gives you a chance to do what you have always wanted to do in a racing game: 
 smash every other car on the track and crash like crazy. As everybody who has heard of these games 
 knows, this series is famous for it's spectacular crashes and aggressive takedown style of driving. 
 Burnout Revenge keeps going along that theme and really has a nice online aspect that can get addicting. 
 I really like the revenge feature where it keeps track of how many times you take other players 
 out and visa versa. Along with the usual rankings, downloadable cars, different play modes, etc., 
 this game really shines while playing over Xbox Live. Then there is the single-player game........
 
  
  The single-player World Tour mode is fun, without a doubt. It has several different race types, 
 the CPU AI is solid, &amp; it gets somewhat addicting trying to get a gold medal (or a rim, in 
 this case) and nice aggression rating. The problem lies with the races that don't involve opponents. 
 You see, Burnout doesn't have the best racing mechanics in the world. It's an arcade-style racer, 
 obviously, so tight controls go right out the window. There are certain race types that are overly 
 annoying and flat-out boring. The Burning Lap and preview races are more frustrating than anything 
 else. The game sometimes gives you unreasonable time guidelines to achieve and if you crash once, 
 you might as well start the race over. And that means you have to sit through the long load screens 
 over and over.
  
  Another HUGE annoyance I had with the game is the fact that it
  s just too fast at times. Don't get me wrong, it's a cool effect and I think it looks &amp; feels 
 great at times. But the game has many little 'corners' that jut out that you can't even see in 
 time and once you hit them, you crash instantly. To make matters worse, for some reason, the game 
 is very dark in different parts of the track to the point where you are driving blind hoping you 
 don't hit one of these edges that make you crash. And why can I run into a guardrail doing 200 
 mph and not crash, but I hit a 'edge' at 50 mph and my car bursts into pieces? It makes no sense. 
 I don't know if I am just used to a more simulation style racer, but this stuff was very annoying 
 to me.
  
  Even with all of that, the game is still fun to play for awhile. It's a perfect game to sit down 
 with for an hour or so and just ram into some other cars. The 'World Tour' mode gets very repetitive 
 after awhile and when you combine that with the annoyance of the the 'Burning Lap' &amp; 'Traffic 
 Attack' (where it just has you slamming into random traffic to get a score) events, I just didn't 
 feel like seeing the single-player game all the way to the end. The game still shines in the crash, 
 race, eliminator, and other events where you have to takedown other cars, cause huge crashes, or 
 win a race. Like most racing games, however, this is designed to play best with other people and 
 that is exactly what it does.
  
  I know this was first released on the current-gen systems, but I really love the look of this game. 
 The cars &amp; tracks all look great. And I know I complained about the game maybe being a bit 
 too fast earlier, but it's nice that there is virtually no slowdown at all. Other developers who 
 have put out lazy ports of current Xbox titles (Neversoft, I am looking your way) , should take 
 a cue from Criterion and see how it's done.
  
  The audio is also very good, especially if you are into teen-punk band rock. Unforunately, I am 
 not. Why does every racing game have to have either hip-hop and/or some crappy teen-punk music? 
 Anyways, if that's your thing then you will probably be happy with the huge forty song playlist 
 here. The sound effects are great, as you would expect with this type of game. The 'Crash' events 
 are particularly fun to jack up the speakers for.
  
  If you are willing to trudge through the 'World Tour' mode, this game could keep you busy for quite 
 some time. Especially when you factor in the fun gameplay over Xbox Live &amp; trying to get all 
 of those extra-hard achievements. I know a lot of gamers love this series and really like this 
 game, but I feel it's a rental. If you rent it and like the 'World Tour' mode, then I think it's 
 a great purchase. Especially at the lower price point it's at now. And if you are a regular fan 
 of the series you probably already have this game and if you don't, you should go buy it. It will 
 give you more of what you love and they have improved the online gameplay as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  burnout revenge is an obvious improvement over takedown. particularly the collision effects with 
 rear ending cars as opposed to head on collisions... yeah! you can actually survive them now, and 
 not only that the game encourages you in several modes to do exactly that. the draw distance is 
 the biggest advantage the circle-box has to offer. with the heightened resolution, it is noticeable 
 in how much farther you can see while racing. i think we can agree that's kind of important when 
 you're doing 150mph with the nitro on. other than that i would have liked a lot more customization 
 options, but of course with detail comes a loss of content across the board so i'll forgive ea 
 this time. wow, never thought i would be willing to forgive ea for anything they do. either way, 
 if you're in a racing game for realism go get forza or gt4. if you're in it for the action then 
 revenge is a very good call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  It's my first burnout game I've owned, I decided to get it because when I played the other Burnout 
 games on my friend's Xbox, I thought, man, I need this, seriously. Burnout is know for its amazing 
 speed and awesome crashing and trashing. It may not have much of a storyline, but just the explosions 
 will keep you playing this for quite a while. The environment is spacious in a way that it also 
 provides a challenge, having have to concentrate on winning the race, destroying you opponent, 
 and dodge incoming vehicles simultaneously is quite a workout, but you will soon catch the drift. 
 There are ranks to achieve, and higher ranks can be attained by winning races, but the races have 
 its own requirements, not just racing. Eliminator, stay in first place at all times or at least 
 don't be last, or you will spontaneously explode when the timer runs out. Traffic attack, crash 
 into traffic to earn a set amount of cash in a set amount of time, running into oncoming vehicles 
 will cause serious game over. Burining lap, race against the clock, sometimes in some brand new 
 unexplored areas, and with new and faster test drive cars too. Road rage, destroy and annihilate 
 everything that opposes you, remeber, revenge is sweet. Finally, the Grand-Prix Race, a multi-race 
 event where you have to go against all odds to get the final glory. All of this packed into one, 
 cannot get any better than that. It does get even better though, you can record your own crash 
 clips and replay over and over again that beautiful nuke-like explosion in the middle of a cross-junction, 
 to only have you shouting Ooooh yeah~! Also, this game is called Burnout Revenger because revenge 
 is everything, elements like crash breaker, and impact time just makes it a lot more satisfying. 
 Crashbreaker is basically like a giant suicidal bomb, when you crash, you get to set off an explosion 
 depending how much nitro you have, you get to time these, and fits perfectly into, If I'm going 
 down, you're going down with me! Impact time works the same way, except its more like you are the 
 martyr, putting your crash death into slow mo, and setting up an aftertouch crash that will get 
 your perfect revenge. Another thing, signature takedowns, these takedowns can only be done in a 
 certain spot of an area, and some takedowns have to be aimed properly, but the thing is, they are 
 the most memorable takedowns you'll ever do. I think the best thing about Revenge is the fact that 
 the cars can go at blistering speeds, the environment going all blurry around the cars, yet stil 
 maintaining a very clear visual up ahead. With this game, you can make sure that you will get not 
 only fun, but be able to beat your rivals in a senseless and satifying way. Now that's revenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris20061
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the best in the series that I have played. I absolutely did not like the original 
 Burnout, but then the 2nd and 3rd came out and had the new Crash modes. Now Revenge has taken Crash 
 Mode and made it even better! The crashes are larger, and more explosive. Also now in certain races, 
 during after crashing you can use a Crashbreaker to destroy nearby rivals. Another good addition 
 is that rear-ending a civilian car going the same direction as you wont make you crash (unless 
 its a large truck) . By hitting the car from behind you have a chance that the car may hit a rival 
 correctly, causing them to crash. The racing is also more fun as now when a rival makes you crash 
 they become marked red for revenge and you can try to crash them to get a Revenge Takedown. Overall 
 Burnout Revenge is the best in the series and very fun to play and also you can buy it pre-owned 
 for the Xbox 360 for $26.99, if youre looking for a cheap (a good) 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is a single and multi-player game for the Next-Gen console Xbox360. The port of 
 this game was expected, and Electronic Arts was more then happy to deliver the nexxt-generation 
 of one of thier top sellers. The game is pretty much an exact copy, but with a few major improvments 
 and fixes. The games graphics have gone through a massive overhaul, everything has been redone 
 to look absolutely perfect in Hi-Def, and that it does. Everything looks like it was ripped right 
 from the SpEEd channel, and all the vehicles have been given new paint jobs. Burnout Revenge delivers 
 some more outstanding graphics in the Crashbreakers that it has been made famous for. The explosions 
 of... everything... look amazing! Little pieces will break off of the overly-aggressive cars that 
 race across various stereotypical places, that in themselves look great.
  The graphics in Burnout have always been good. Greatly detailed for something that will be only 
 seen for half a second at a time. The sound has been re-done as well. The music prtion have been 
 untouched, all the original songs are still there. But they do sound better in Hi-Def. All the 
 other sounds have been re-done and re-structered. Everything from the zoom of the car as it passes 
 the camera, to the sounds of the shatteroing windshield as a stray vehicle is checked into the 
 oncoming lane, it all is great. Certain new features have been added to the new Version, Such as 
 Burnout Clips. The system of which each race can be watched again after it is played, and certain 
 bits can be recoreded from that to share online with your friends and enemies. Players will find 
 themselves recording various moments from thier races to brag with later. The XBOX live is as hardcore 
 as ever, players come together to race and crash for a shot as the #1 world ranking. Burnout Revenge 
 itself has always been a great game. What was done with this port is simply to amplify the game 
 itself to make it once again one of the best racing games of all time. With the release of this 
 port, Electronic Arts has given Burnout fans another taste of Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjlars
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This series has slipped b me in the past but I was able to play Burnout 3 and loved it, this was 
 one of the first games I picked up for my 360. This game is just plain fun, it's hard to put down, 
 and it great fun on live. My family gets a great game that we can pick up and play a game of crash 
 party or crash tour together anytime. The solo game isn't anything to sneeze at either plenty to 
 unlock and a wide variety of events. It would be nice to have a way to modify the vehicles a little 
 more than just changing the colors an the car models are good but more texture would be great. 
 in the end it is definitely worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2maniak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for a racing fan and a FPS fan. It has great action and a great sense of speed. 
 I realy like the drifting. But this game has some down falls, for one there is this anoying game 
 type where you have to go off a ramp and see how much damage you cause. It may be fun a first but 
 it gets boring. But besides that the gaem is great. It has lots of action good tracks and the music 
 is great. It is alot like the older Burn out 3 but will small things added. So it isnt too much 
 of an improvment. The crash graphics are great, and the sound is much beter than the xbox version. 
 I would recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Priceless!!
  
  This is diffently one of the most exciting racing games iv ever played with its awsome graphics, 
 INTENSE gameplay and extreme raceing this is the highlight of this game and its explosive vehiclular 
 vengance.
  
  STORY: Destroy Every Car In The World!
  
  GRAPHICS: The cars look great, but they look even better when they are falling apart and surrounded 
 by flames. SOUND: A surround sound dynamo. Objects hiss as they zoom by, you can hear the wind 
 rolling over your car, and explosions make your woofers thump like a shotgun blast.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: Like an F15 fighter plane these cars hiss across the screen in a blur of sparks 
 and in burnout revenge you no longer need to avoid the cars in your lane. Rather than wrecking 
 when you slam into a vehicle, you can theoretically use it as a four-wheel, 3,000-pound projectile. 
 Its like bowling with cars! This Installment also has a much better AI that can take you down 
 much easier then before and they also mix diffrent types of races together very well like
  
  Road Rage and Crashbreakers or crashbreakers and Eliminator in one.
  
  and the new Traffic 
 Attack ( in this you Slam in to as many cars as you can in the same lane!)
  
  OVERALL: The first racing game that pushes players to smash into everything. To no surprise, this 
 proves to be insanely fun. So this one i would say is better then burnout takedown and you can 
 be sure their will be lots of Crashs!  Revenge 360 
 
  
  There really is barely any diffrence between This one and the xbox one. In fact the only reason 
 i got this one was because my Xbox version would not work on my 360. GRAPHICS: Not much i can say 
 here, because its hard to notice any diffrence, which is quite a shame since its sopposed to be 
 Next Gen?
  
  SOUND: Same here, its hard to notice much diff.
  
  OVERALL: Its a awsome game but i would have expected a lot more even. I have not played the Live 
 version yet but im sure that version probably better then the first xbox version. Putting aside 
 both versions since there pretty much identical, i will put my take on the pros and cons of the 
 game.
  
  PRO: Incredible Vechile carnage, A Surround Sound Dynamo, Sweet Graphics even more for the 360, 
 Well worth the price of admition, Great controls, and overall a package worth picking up if you 
 know whats good for you!
  
  CONS: Not enough diffrent racing area's, and i can't think of anything else right now, so there 
 really is no bad side to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Burnout games have been about one thing. TRASH ALL THE OTHER CARS.
  The next gen debut is visually stunning and addictive.
  Shards of glass fly everywhere, broken 
 doors fly off their hinges, cars soar through the air... This is my kind of game! The crashes are 
 extremely satisfying, and the obvious highlight of the game (Hell, theres a mode dedicated to it!) 
 and even though most of the game is about racing, youll wanna smash other cars to bits just for 
 the eye candy.
  
  Sound is terrific, too! Everything plays smoothly, even though the EA sound track can get HORRIBLY 
 repetitive... maybe they could have put more songs in there on each patch.
  Speaking of which, you can download cars from the Marketplace.
  
  Gameplay is where the game 
 starts to drag; it DOES get repetitive, and there are only a couple of modes to choose from, and 
 usually the only differences between missions is that they'll increase in difficulty, and crashing, 
 all though extremely satisfying, will start to lose its fun factor.
  
  Its a good game, but there are a few things they should smooth out for the enxt game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 is a port of the original Xbox game from the developers at Criterion 
 Games. The game is published by EA and is recognized widely for being the most addictively intense 
 and ridiculously fast racing game on the market. Burnout Revenge features some updated Xbox Live 
 features from the original Xbox version, as well as some more crash junctions.
  
  **Graphics**
  
  Burnout Revenge is one of those games that looked absolutely stunning on the 
 original Xbox, and there really wasn't a lot that could be done to touch up these graphics, however, 
 Criterion Games went ahead and did it anyways. Let's get one thing straight. Burnout Revenge looks 
 great. The game is fast, pretty, and explosively addicting, but it's not a game that you could 
 call next-generation . If you look at Burnout Revenge for Xbox and then look at the 360 version, 
 yea you'll notice a difference, but it won't be a BIG difference. The most important thing to remember 
 though, is that Burnout for the original Xbox really pushed the system to the max, and the 360 
 version just handles all of the action onscreen with a lot more ease. The framerate is a VERY stable 
 60 FPS, and it really adds to the whole Burnout experience, complementing the blazing fast racing 
 action going on. Burnout Revenge does look awesome though. Most notably, the game manages to pull 
 some really fancy lighting tricks, which adds a lot more to the gorgeous environments. Bloom effects 
 and High Dynamic Range lighting are used in abundance in Revenge, and it works very well with the 
 context of the game. Light glints off of your car as you scream by at 200 mph, sparks dance around 
 your crash as you collide with the divider, the lighting is the star of the Xbox 360 show. That's 
 not to say that the cars don't look better. Criterion went ahead and made the already-good-looking 
 cars look even better, with realistic reflections and believeable models. Each car has a relatively 
 buffed up polygon count, as well as anti-aliasing, which makes the cars look a lot better than 
 previous generation versions. The particle effects in Burnout Revenge really take the cake for 
 best-looking aspect of the game however. Crashes look more realistic than ever with amazing attention 
 to detail at car damage physics and models, adding a sense of total destruction to your collisions 
 with objects in the world. Paint chips fly off your hood, shattered glass litters the street, and 
 tires bounce throughout the city. Each crash looks great and totally different. You're almost guaranteed 
 to never experience the same crash more than once thanks to the physics engine Criterion employed 
 into the new Revenge. And last, but certainly not least, the sense of speed. Burnout has always 
 been known for the way it superbly handles how fast you're going. The game balances out the speed 
 with long tracks and relatively easy visibility. There are times when you will be going so fast 
 it'll be nearly impossible to see what's in front of you, but it doesn't happen often enough to 
 really negatively affect the game. All in all though, Burnout Revenge is a great-looking game, 
 but it doesn't warrant a huge difference over previous-generation iterations of the game. That 
 isn't necessarily a bad thing though....
  
  **Sound**
  
  One thing that is definitely next-gen about Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 is its audio. Burnout 
 Revenge makes full use of surround sound and the 360's ability to provide awesome sound effects. 
 Boosting initiates a very satisfying hissing sound that just screams horsepower, and it's great 
 fun holding that A button down forever. Crashes also sound just the way they should. Glass shatters 
 with a distinct crack, metal creaks and breaks with intense ferocioty, and explosions sound devastatingly 
 real. The most satisfying aspect of Burnout's sound is without a doubt the Crashbreaker effect. 
 This stunning recreation of a nuclear bomb-like explosion coming from your car is perfect for the 
 awe-inspiring result. First, a sound like a jet intake, then the massive explosion thunders throughout 
 the environment and shudders every part of your room. It's incredible. The sense of speed Burnout 
 delivers with insane precision is in no small part thanks to the realistic sound effects. Your 
 engine screams at you as you hit 200 mph, and the wind whirls around you as your boost sends you 
 into the next turn. Your tires squeal as you drift around that corner, and your tires regain their 
 traction with a quick squeak. Every aspect of Revenge's audio is part of the immersive experience 
 that the game delivers.
  
  **Control**
  
  Burnout Revenge is definitely not a simulation game, and doesn't handle like one either. Burnout 
 has always been known for its arcadey feel and simplistic controls that make picking up and playing 
 that much easier. Anybody from grizzled racing veterans to console newbies can pick up a controller 
 and get the hang of Revenge in about 10 minutes. The easy control scheme is all complementary to 
 the idea behind the game, which is to create as much chaos as possible, without making things too 
 complicated. Criterion Games managed to take aspects from arcade racing games and incorporate its 
 own special blend of speed and adrenaline to make Burnout Revenge so easy to handle. The feel of 
 Burnout is great, smooth, simple, and intensely fast-paced make this game streamlined and easy 
 to get into. Burnout Revenge is a game that anyone can play, whether you're a racing fan or not, 
 this game will not have you flinging your controller in frustration over handling. However, most 
 of Burnout's cars feel very similar, which can be seen as a bad thing or a good thing. It's a bad 
 thing in that the uniqueness of each car is somewhat dumbed down, but it's a good thing by making 
 each car easier to get used to. That isn't to say there ISN'T a difference in the handling of cars, 
 it's just not as big as it should be, which subtracts from the different experience you should 
 get with each car.
  
  **Singleplayer**
  
  The Burnout series has always had a World Tour singleplayer mode. The World Tour sends you through 
 a bunch of different environments, each with their own unique challenges and courses. You'll race 
 in the US, swap paint in Europe, and tear metal in Asia over the course of the World Tour, and 
 you'll find yourself constantly in new environments, which keeps the experience pretty fresh. The 
 singleplayer consists of a series of ranks, each with their set of challenges. As you get high 
 ratings on each race, you get a certain amount of stars, which, when at a certain amount, ranks 
 you up, opening new events and such. The singleplayer retains the Revenge theme that is so readily 
 advertised, and it's a fun aspect. It's not very deep, but it works. Despite some variety, the 
 singleplayer of Burnout Revenge does get repetitive, which can get frustrating on the harder levels. 
 While the game is plenty of fun in the singleplayer mode, there are some hinderances that really 
 keep it from being legendary. There's no story, at all. That's not really a big issue, but it doesn't 
 really give you a big motive to play the singleplayer, aside from Achievements. Speaking of Achievements, 
 Burnout Revenge features some ridiculously hard ones, and will keep you playing the singleplayer 
 to get some of the near-impossible criteria required to boost that Gamerscore of yours. One thing 
 that is pretty awesome about Burnout Revenge is the Save and Share feature, which allows you to 
 save 30 second clips of action during your replays in the singleplayer mode (only singleplayer) . 
 You can get Achievements by uploading your clip to EA's servers and getting in the Top 20 clips 
 section. You can also download other people's clips and see how good everyone else is. It's a great 
 feature, and it's implemented well into the game. In conclusion, Burnout Revenge has a good singleplayer 
 mode, but it's nothing to scream about.
  
  **Multiplayer**
  
  Burnout Revenge most notable change over previous-generation iterations of the game is the revised 
 Xbox Live mode. Revenge is a HUGE part of the experience you'll have online, and it's incredibly 
 addicting. Here's how it works. When you're racing over XBL with someone, you take 'em down. A 
 message pops up saying New Revenge Rival! and the person you just took down now has you marked 
 for revenge. They'll be out to settle the score by taking you down in return, but if you keep taking 
 them down, you'll unlock some achievements, and build up the rivalry between you. The revenge aspect 
 doesn't end after you leave the game either. EA tracks your rivalries with other players, and keeps 
 them continuous as you make your way through the Leaderboards. It's a next-gen experience. This 
 is what we have come to expect from Xbox Live and the Xbox 360. Things like this really make the 
 online gameplay of Burnout Revenge so supremely awesome and will keep you hooked. In addition to 
 the immersive Live experience, Burnout Revenge features split screen and system link. Rivalries 
 are present here, but it's not quite as fun as Live. Split screen holds up at 60 frames the entire 
 time, which is great, even though you're restricted to 2 player split screen. However, Burnout 
 Revenge does suffer from some unfortunate omittings from the multiplayer. There's no option for 
 crashbreaker races, which would've been tons of fun, you can't control your flaming wreck when 
 you crash (it could've been non-slo-mo) , but these are small things. Burnout Revenge's online is 
 incredible, and you really need Xbox Live to get the full Burnout Revenge experience.
  
  **Lasting Appeal**
  
  Burnout Revenge features an insanely fun Xbox Live mode that will keep 
 you addicted for many, many hours. The singleplayer mode is fun, but not very long. Clocking in 
 at about 15 hours or so, it tends to get boring after awhile. Split-screen and system link are 
 great fun, but don't compare to the Live experience Revenge delivers. The lasting appeal of Burnout 
 Revenge really depends on two factors: if you have Live, and if you already own a previous-generation 
 version of the game. This game will get old fast if you have already played through a previous-gen 
 Revenge, and while the online features are stellar, they don't really warrant a $60 purchase. However, 
 if you've never played a Burnout game before or never owned the original Xbox's Revenge, then you 
 absolutely must pick this game up. You're missing out on some senseless racing fun.
  
  **Presentation**
  
  There's not really a whole lot to say here. Burnout Revenge does a good 
 job of making it easy to get everywhere, menus are easily navigated, etc. The cinematics for new 
 medals and unlockables are cool, but more of an afterthought than anything. Burnout Revenge's presentation, 
 while basic, gets the job done. And that's all that really matters right?
  
  **Conclusion**
  
  Burnout Revenge is a great game as a standalone game, however, it's not a 
 whole lot different from the previous-generation Burnout Revenge. With some relatively enhanced 
 graphics, and some nice revisions to the Xbox Live portion of the game, Burnout Revenge manages 
 to be more than just a straight port, but falls short of next-gen expectations for the most part. 
 If you already own Burnout on your Xbox, don't bother slapping down another $60 for this version. 
 But, if you don't, then by all means, stop reading this and grab a copy right now!
  
  Leave some comments and let me know if you disagree or couldn't agree more! I'd love to hear any 
 feedback.
  
  Check out my blog (Full of stories, reviews, and more!)
  
  http://infamousanarchy. blogspot. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horonaim
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  Burnout: Revenge is just plain mayhem and fun! Visuals are clear and crisp. Car models are well 
 done and very detailed. They physics are awesome too, car parts and debris fly off with every collision! 
 Sounds and effects are pretty realistic and well done, it makes you feel like you are really in-game. 
 The gameplay is also good but not the best with different modes to choose from, lots of goals and 
 ranks to achieve, so this gives the game a good replay value. Online/Multiplayer in Xbox Live is 
 also great, with hundreds of people playing online its good to test your skills against them. If 
 you like racing with smashing other cars and causing chaos, this game is for you! Racing has never 
 been this fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nexus8126
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  For those of us who always find ourselfs running into traffic here is your chance to do what you 
 have been dreaming of. Demolish those loser AI cars in a ripping sprint to the finish line. Or 
 make a carreer of smashing vehicals for maximum damage. Online play is especialy swift and may 
 take some getting used to if you have been play solo. There are several different gameing modes 
 to choose from in burnout. This being a great sequil to an already fun and addicting platform it 
 builds on its complex tracks and interaction with AI Cars and Trucks. You may find that most people 
 don't talk during online play but if you select different gaming sessions you will eventually find 
 a room full og good people and great races. This game is Great!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcraftfan234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge like it's other predecessors is a really good game, EA and Criterion has never 
 failed when it comes to making Burnout games, now Burnout Revenge is released for XBOX 360, but 
 is it a must buy? Yes and No.
  
  The game itself is like the other current-gen console versions, nothing's different except for 
 the extra downloadable cars, a few more crash junctions, ability to upload clips to XBL and pretty 
 HD Graphics.
  But what really saves this game from feeling like a import from another system is multiplayer. 
 XBOX LIVE is phenomenal, and the multiplayer is really addicting, There are many modes to play 
 in Multiplayer, Race, Crash Party, Crash Tour, Crash Battle and Road Rage. There is hardly any 
 lag at all to worry about.
  
  If you want a game that has really great multiplayer and a innovative single-player mode, but if 
 you already own the game for a current-gen system, then there's no real point in buying this, unless 
 you are hardcore Burnout fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nilemonitor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Warning,.... This game may cause serious lack of sleep and diminished focus on regular activities. 
 Use caution while driving a vehicle or operating heavy machinery. Do Not drink caffeine while playing 
 Burnout. Avoid other certain types of games while playing Burnout to reduce the chance of an allergic 
 reaction or a confliction of games. Burnout Revenge should be taken in moderation. Do not combine 
 Burnout Revenge with Burnout 3, 2, or 1 to avoid possible burnout. Too much game play may result 
 in a serious addiction. Some people who play Burnout Revenge may have frequent and sudden urges 
 to install nitrous booster packs in the back of their Honda. Danger... If someone playing Burnout 
 displays a lack of differentiation between Burnout and the real world, seek professional help immediately! 
 Some symptoms may include, driving on the wrong side of the road, driving at incredible speeds, 
 trying to knock other cars off the road, or trying to make the largest car pile up possible. Burnout 
 is not for everyone. People taking Burnout may experience sudden boosts of nitrous or extremely 
 high levels of speed. Through proper use one can be immensely entertained for countless hours on 
 end. Burnout works hard to become the best racer out there with each release. And with the up coming 
 future releases of Burnout, there should be no doubt of Burnout's dedication to achieving their 
 ultimate goal which is to create the greatest racing experience in history. Burnout Revenge is 
 a high octane and highly volatile product so proceed with extreme caution!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ELSock
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  I have had way too much fun playing Burnout Revenge... As far as i'm concerned its the best Burnout 
 to date..
  The Visuals are Fantastic.. with all the sparks when you hit walls... and the flames with the explosions... 
 and Burnout would be complete without explosions.. Speaking of loud crashing booms...
  Burnouts audio is amazing.. especially if you have a good surround sound setup the booms are loud 
 and basey and the the engines roar with power.. simply put its sounds good... also the game handles 
 fairly easy in my opinion.. and its a good one to pick up play for a few quick races and put back 
 down... all and all this game for me was a must buy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Well ive never played burnout revenge live but this game is brilliant its allot of fun i always 
 get caught up in how great the graphics really are it just looks so real so perfect. Doing this 
 review im still actually im playing burnout but almost finished it ive been playing this non stop 
 for days and i just can not keep off it.
  
  The game modes there crash mode where you have to make a brilliant crash making much damage possible, 
 eliminator after like 30 seconds or something a car gets eliminated each time is tricky sometimes 
 especially when you crash puts you way behind, theres the normal race mode which is cool i love 
 that, also a mode where you have to bash the cars.
  
  The tracks are cool you will be racing on the same tracks quite often but still doesn't get boring. 
 the crashes in this game are brilliant looks so real it really shows you how brilliant the 360 
 really is. This game has a pretty good soundtrack but i like putting my own music on it with the 
 hard drive sounds much better cause sometimes i hate having there game music on.
  
  Sometimes i find it so hard to really play a game for ages and i can game on this for hours i have 
 already done that you will get alot of fun out of it. Something that burnout is that its nothing 
 like other racing games its alot different to them burnout always offers more. If you want a game 
 thats alot of fun and everything try this its brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unsure
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  I play this off and on. Best thing I like about it is you can pop into an x-box live game in minutes. 
 Race a few times and jump out with no problems. The community is nice and friendly and does not 
 give you a hard time when you have to leave.
  
  The car crashing is fun but get's old pretty fast. It is a major part of the game but is a bit 
 to hard in some places for my liking. I like the racing. I also like the fact you DO NOT have to 
 buy car's off the x-box live Marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoobaz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Well I figured I should get to writing a review about this game, when I have been playing it since 
 it was released on the original xbox :why do we call it the Original Xbox and not just the Xbox:. 
 Anyways, The 360 version of this game just blew me away, not really because of gameplay but because 
 of High-Definition. I do sometime get caught up in the clarity of the game to where I am not looking 
 at the oncoming cars but the scenary and lights around me. I do find it although better then the 
 xbox version other then graphics because of some tweaks and polishes they made to this fantastic 
 series. The multiplayer was a huge bumer to play on the xbox version due to the fact the races 
 were unevenly matched because you could only race with the cars you unlocked in single player. 
 Then the final touch they worked on was the explosions more cars parts flying off in every direction.
 
  
  The Bad:
  I know I know all games have these problems and if it was to be a perfected game it would take 
 years to make, but I will come out and say it.
  Jaggies No.1
  Check Traffic Takes You Out No.2
  Jaggies in this game you look at some turns and come to find 
 out it wasn't smooth as it was you go into a drift slide along the wall and you eventually crash.
 
  Checking traffic was a great Idea in this new series but come on there are actual cars that are 
 made out of cement. i would have won the race if this game didn't hate me great quotes yes I know 
 but common.....
  
  Conclusion Love the game, and it is worth the small defects! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is fulled with action. Just a fun fun game like i said above. I played this game on the 
 xbox and the 360 and i just cant stop playing this game. I play it all the time online its just 
 a lot of fun. The graphics are great, and the sound is just incredible. There arnt to many features 
 in this game but the races that they have are all you can ask for in this game. I cant wait for 
 the next one to come out. Its fun to crash and its fun to race.
  Def go out and buy this one. Also the game isnt 60 dollas and is affordable!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theheartless666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Burnout 3: Takedown was an amazing game on the Xbox. Burnout Revenge looked like it was going to 
 be even better... and then, to be blunt, it fell short.
  
  Burnout Revenge on the original Xbox lost quality in a camera problem involved in Impact Time. 
 When you activated it, the camera would swing around behind your car, making it impossible to see 
 the oncoming cars you were trying to steer your wreck into. This issue basically made one of the 
 most definitive features of Burnout completely useless. So did it carry over into the 360 version 
 like all the other traits of the Xbox version? I am happy to report that no, that was fixed for 
 the High-Def installment of the crash-happy series. So why isn't this game perfect? Like the local 
 news, I'm holding my grim stuff for the end to make you sit through all the happy-go-lucky information 
 first!
  
  Burnout Revenge on the 360 is basically an arcade racing gamer's dream come true. It's blindingly 
 fast... and I really mean that, it is BLINDINGLY fast. Cars push well over 220 mph while boosting, 
 and that's just the light models I'm talking about. Not only that, but it looks gorgeous while 
 accomplishing this level of speed and intensity. Though from time to time the graphics may get 
 a tad bit bogged down, I have only experienced it a couple of times and it didn't hinder gameplay 
 at all. Car models are beautiful, and usually pretty stylish. Cars don't get as banged up as they 
 used to, instead favoring a system that applies nasty paint scratches to the vehicle by the end 
 of the event.
  
  The game also sounds great, with cars and crashes both sounding very convincing. The menus have 
 a nice, satisfying metallic nature to all of their sounds. If I was going to nitpick the sound 
 I would really only have the soundtrack of EATrax to complain about. It sucks. However, that's 
 not really an issue here as I can plug my iPod (or any other music storage device, mind you) into 
 my 360 and play my own music instead... a feature that is absolutely priceless.
  
  The control could not be tighter, but unfortunately something they changed from Burnout 3 is that 
 the turning is not as sharp as it used to be... which means you will not be able to simply twitch-slam 
 into your opponents to get take them down... you will actually have to work for it this time around. 
 It is arguable that this just means you have to get very skillful, but I call it frustrating.
 
  
  Online play is a tad frustrating. First, you have to agree to the EA disclaimers and then EA promptly 
 tricks you into signing up for their newsletter by setting No, Thanks to the A button and OK to 
 the B button... the exact opposite of what one would expect. Then, once you're in the EA web of 
 evil, you will begin to hunt for games. You will invariably be kicked out of many games before 
 you find one to play, and then you will cry if you get a different mode than you want to play and 
 it won't let you back out of it even once it's over.
  
  So here we are, at the end of the review, and I still haven't said much negative of the game. This 
 may not bug everyone else as much as me, but it does still get to me: the physics are too darned 
 realistic. It used to be that when you hit anything in Burnout, you would get some air or spin 
 and the ability to steer your wreck effectively into other cars... but basically 9/10 crashes on 
 here will have you stopped dead in your tracks and sure, you can see the oncoming cars but you 
 have no momentum to actually steer your wreck into them. Boo.
  
  Still, at the end of the day, if you can't get into those heavy-duty racers like PGR3 or Test Drive 
 Unlimited, then this is the 360 racer to get. Burnout Revenge is just an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing that's all that can be said about it. In my opinion the second best racing 
 game next to Burnout 3. Then why the some what low score you ask? I've already played the hell 
 out of this game on the Xbox. There is hardly any difference between this game and the last gen 
 version. All I can see are updated graphics and a couple new Xbox live features. Both of which 
 or not huge additions in my book. But if you've never played Burnout Revenge on any other system 
 your in for one hell of a good time. The sense of speed and the adrenaline rush you get from this 
 game is amazing. The crash events warrant a $40 purchase alone epically online. I found races and 
 road rage events kind of boring online. But maybe thats just because I was continuously getting 
 my ass handed to me. All the same if youre a racing game fan and don't mind things like non-licensed 
 cars go out and buy this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil_2468
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  The only thing that's not so realistic is the fact of checking cars from the back, making this 
 game easier than Burnout 3, but that still helps, especially for Crash mode, which I'll talk about 
 in just a bit. The graphics for this game is even better than the other Burnout games. B4 has a 
 great music selection, although B3's soundtrack IMO is still the best. The best thing in B4 is 
 Crash mode, I love the crashbreaker because you can do even more chaos than B3 because you can 
 always use impact time, whereas B3 you can only use it once when you crash and only use crashbreaker 
 once unless you got a crashbreaker icon. Here, there are no pick-up icons, but you can still rack 
 up a large amount of damage cost, even larger than in B3. And like I said, you can check cars from 
 behind, so doing that can help big time to cause more traffic pile-up. The traffic acts the same 
 way as in B3 though, like when you crash, the traffic suddenly accelerates towards you or some 
 other car like a magnet, but I can understand, because if that didn't happen, there probably wouldn't 
 be very many crashes.
  
  B4 is an awesome sequel to B3. I haven't played Burnout Paradise, but that looks even more awesome, 
 since it has free roam in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantedchaos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Another great game in the Burnout series. Its amazing, once you think they cant do anything more 
 to the series, they make this. This series is famous for its high speed racing and explosive crashing. 
 Burnout revenge backs this up. With 50 new crash junctions, over 80 cars, (and some downloadable 
 ones) , and tons of racing courses. Burnout revenge has a great replay value. No one crash will 
 ever bee the same.
  You can duke it out on X-Box live with old school racing, takedown mode, and plenty of crash modes.
 
  Over-all this is a great game! I wonder what the next one will be like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DancingJesus7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  The fastest racing series of all time just got even more crazy. This is the best burnout yet and 
 is the best arcade racer yet. I myself wasn't a huge fan of racing games but if a game can make 
 me like the genre that I didn't like normally that's a revolutionary game for all. Those new to 
 the burnout series must try it to believe it. The racing itself is blazing fast and requires faster 
 reflexes then other games because you are so daring. The game has numerous game types including 
 straight up races, crash junction, road rage, traffic attack and eliminater/timed events. The crash 
 junction and road rage are both paticularly innovative and fun to the genre. The crash junction 
 consists of a player reving up their engine and launching in crashing it into a crowded intersection 
 trying to rack up the most amount of damage to the other cars. You will also gain the ability to 
 use crashbreaker which you earn for hitting a certain amount of cars, this allows you to spontaneously 
 combust your car having it explode and hitting even more cars and more damage. The crash junction 
 feels more like a puzzle game if anything and seeing which ways will get the most money. Road rage 
 consists of players racing and trying to takedown other racers on the road. You can do this by 
 slaming other cars into walls or landing on top of them. It's sort of a battle car mode and is 
 a ton of fun. There's tons of cars and events to try out so it never gets old. It also has a robust 
 online system with fast matchmaking skills , ranked matches and a party like system to enjoy all 
 your favorite gametypes. The graphics itself are great and the car models crush in awesome ways 
 with metal flying all over. Environments are also very detailed, if you stopped and cruised around 
 you'd see how much effort the developers put into it. The sound though is even more impressive 
 then the graphics the wooshing of other cars flying by is awesome as well as the the boosting and 
 cars engines themselves it almost sounds like a jet going off. The soundtrack is pretty good if 
 your a fan of rock and can always be turned off and use a custom soundtrack. All in all burnout 
 is a great value with tons of singleplayer events , robust online system and a bunch of great cars. 
 Even if you hate racers, give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge has been out for a few months on current-gen consoles, and it was an outstanding 
 racer that took the level of intensity of Burnout 3 and doubled it with an array of new features. 
 While that was all fine and good for us, the folks at Criterion weren't satisfied, and the long-awaited 
 next gen Burnout makes its glorious debut on the Xbox 360. And it is quite arguably the best Burnout 
 to date. Burnout has been around a while, and it has evolved greatly from sequel to sequel, getting 
 better each and every time. Burnout 3 marked a huge milestone in the franchise, by adding "takedowns" 
 and changing the face of arcade racers forever. It brought upon the world a new level of addiction 
 and provided the first truly great car combat game. Burnout Revenge has alot to live up to from 
 its predecessor, and while the changes aren't as revolutionary as the ones in Burnout 3 (which 
 might be a good thing) , it improves upon it more than enough to render it obsolete. The new additions 
 in Revenge include better track design, with ramps and obstacles galore (a huge improvement over 
 the comparatively plain tracks of Burnout 3) , vertical takedowns, and an amped up presentation. 
 The theme is much darker and grittier which fits the style of the game perfectly, as it revolves 
 around complete and utter destruction. Now, the current-gen versions were certainly impressive, 
 but the experience you'll have on the Xbox 360 leaves them in the dust. Most of the changes in 
 the Xbox 360 version are cosmetic, with hardly any new features added on, but it is still a much, 
 much better experience. The graphics have been totally overhauled to include much more car deformation 
 and better explosions, not to mention the tracks are some of the most beautiful I've ever seen. 
 The car models have improved reflections and get damaged as the race goes on, but it is easy to 
 tell that they were spent the least amout of time on improving. Other than that, the game looks 
 utterly amazing, truly making it feel next-gen. The gameplay is largely the same as it was in the 
 current-gen versions, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. As I mentioned before, the tracks are 
 more designed for combat with shortcuts and ramps galore, allowing for extremely satisfying vertical 
 takedowns. The crash mode has been improved also with better explosions and the removal of crash 
 multipliers, adding strategy to the mode. The 360 version features 10 new crash junctions, which 
 is certainly a good thing. The 360 version also has smoother online play and the addition of the 
 Rivalry mode, which tracks who took you down in previous races so you can score revenge and "settle 
 the score". It is really fun addition to the already great online that could influence some other 
 games... (Fight Night, I'm looking at you) . The online play will eat up most of your experience 
 with Burnout Revenge, but it also has a great single player World Tour mode that should keep you 
 busy for quite a while. Most of the achievements are tied to this mode, so it is probably a good 
 idea to play through it. It is also a great way to get acquainted with the game. Overall, Burnout 
 Revenge sucseeds as a great next-gen debut of a much-loved franchise and an outstanding racer on 
 its own right. This is a highly recommended purchase for anyone with a 360, and even if you've 
 played the current-gen versions it is still worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T13SAMBRLNM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is basically an Xbox 360 port of a game that was already on the PS2 and Xbox, but 
 it has some new features and better graphics and sound. All of these things come together to make 
 an absolutely amazing experience. First off, one new thing is that the cars come apart much better. 
 Now they break apart in many tiny little pieces, which is a nice touch. Second, every event now 
 has a full replay and can use VCR-like controls to pause, play, fast foward, rewind and skip to 
 another part. You can even save 30 second clips to view later or show off online. Speaking of online, 
 a new feature has been added to that as well. This new feature is a long memory . What this does 
 is that when take a guy out, it knows you did it and keeps a record of how many times you've taken 
 out that very person. That person, however, can settle the score by taking you out once. Other 
 that that, this basically the same Burnout Revenge you've probably have played already on the Xbox 
 or PS2. It has all of the same things that those versions had, such as traffic checking, the new 
 traffic attack mode, crashbreaker versions of race events, the ranking system and all that stuff 
 like that. The game may have already looked good on Xbox and PS2, but this version makes thae game 
 look even better. The car models are extremely shiny and good looking. The explosions are also 
 much better looking on the 360. This version also sounds better as well. How is that? Well, it 
 seems like the developers redone all the sound and somehow made it sound a lot better than the 
 other versions. This is a well done racer for the 360 and it should be seen. The good: Great gameplay 
 has remained the same, replay are good, graphics are awesome, sound is improved, cars coming apart 
 better is great. The bad: Framerate can be bad in some replays, somehow it's harder to do takedowns. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncookedcookie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun you can replay it a million times and never get bored. The online play 
 is also amazing. Also trafic checking is the best feature ever this is the best next gen racer 
 out their. The price for 40 dollars how can u pass this up. With the price and vaule how can not 
 buy it. On the orginal xbox and ps2 it was good but plus the new online and it keeps track of people 
 u made rivals with it's really cool. This game is the best racer ever for the 360 and even if u 
 consider buying this just buy it cause it's the best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysterrockstar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first sat down to play Burnout 3 I was impressed, the best part about racing (crashing) , 
 was the focus of the game. Now comes Burnout Revenge which expands upon some of the better parts 
 of Burnout 3 and fixes some of the frustrations also.
  
  The graphics are not quite on par with the 360 as I would expect, but much better then previous 
 versions. I do have to admit that reflections, and damage are greatly improved upon, but cities 
 could use some work. (I play on a regular TV so I am sure with HDTV these would quite possibly 
 look much better) .
  
  Controls are nice, not much wrong there. Though there are no licensed cars, all the cars are awesome 
 and I especially like that the cars you use for the crashes (aside from the race cars you have 
 access to) are beat up "junkers" for the most part. The coat hanger was a nice addition.
  
  Road Rage events seem to not come up as often as I would like. The crashes are much better and 
 I really enjoy them this time, in fact, I seek them out when new events get unlocked. The addition 
 of the crash-breaker and Interaction with traffic going the same direction as you were nice touches. 
 Not only will there be events that are specifically for "checking traffic," but you can use them 
 for takedowns, which is nice when you are in first place being tailed. I also like how in crash 
 events that traffic plays an important role when trying to get all the cars (meaning you need to 
 check traffic into vehicles that you would most likely miss) .
  
  I still notice though, when I crash that it becomes frustrating when your car is not moving and 
 it does not put you right back into the race (this could be my impatience) . Also, when you think 
 you can go just a little more in after-touch you are dropped back into the race (this could be 
 me thinking I can always get an after-touch) . Minor nuisance for an exceptional game. Although, 
 not much depth, this game is straight forward and worth playing. Fans of racing games will love 
 the feel of speed as you zoom through traffic. Fans of messing stuff up, will love being able to 
 crash, and cause crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge came from the destruction name of revenge on the cars that gave you trouble winning 
 races becasue they crashed you at the finish line. That is my philosophy of the meaning of this 
 game. You can get cars that are fresh from the factory just to crash them and use their boost to 
 win races. The difficulty of this game series has gone up because burnout 3 was far easier to beat 
 the races and crashes but this game has new rules for those types and it is revolutionary and it 
 will take time to adjust to. If you rent this game, it is a waste of money because you only get 
 it for a week or longer and you will be hooked on this game before you know it. There are ten levels 
 of crash ratings you get and you have to win races and get your destruction bar up to an awesome 
 to get a perfect five stars and when you get enough stars, your rank goes up and you are defined 
 as a better driver than ever before. Every time you get a level boost, you get a new set of races 
 and what sucks is you have tons of levels you haven't even started yet because you haven't finished 
 the others and you are getting level 6 and you are only doing races on level 3 because you haven't 
 gotten all the stars you needed yet in that level and that means you can do easier levels and get 
 your revenge rating up and easily become a better driver. You also get new ways to takedown your 
 opponents and get boost like crashing the cars in their butt becasue that is the signature takedown 
 of a car in this game and it is the first level you do in this game and it's the funnest one you'll 
 ever play because you can make your score really high and i got 5 million and you were only supposed 
 to get five-hundred thousand points in takedowns. I hope this game is a game you'll want to buy 
 because of this review because this game will get you hooked for days upon days just like burnout 
 3 did when it came out and i hope the makers of this game make another game involving burnout in 
 it's name and it better be good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Hobbit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  this game was BRILLIANT! loved the other games but this one beats them. faster cars, better take-downs, 
 longer tracks, this game advances on full throttle from the other games making it a great joy to 
 play. Best part would have to be the crash events, destroy, burn, carnage!! a true joy to play 
 over and over again. the only thing i found wrong with this game is the soundtrack. some good songs 
 but most not that good. The Best way to play this game is on multiplayer. get some mates round 
 to really get the rivalries going then finish it off with those sweet revenge take downs!! nothing 
 quite like revenge! *evil laugh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0741robi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun its not just and awesome racing game but the revenge parts of the game are 
 awesome some of the ways you can take down and enemy are amazing. the wide selection of cars is 
 great with some more cars which you can download the sound of the cars is amazing and it has a 
 really good and solid online. This a not a great difference from the other platforms so don't buy 
 it just for the next gen. But with a great single palyer and a good sturdy online then this just 
 nocks in my opinion pgr3 off the best racer. Now just have to wait another year for burnout 5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: annihi355
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  The first i ever played burn out, i didnt doubt that ived buy it. it makes me crazy frogetting 
 that the real thing has a rule name in the street! i really enjoy the graphics, sounds and the 
 best of all was its addictive part, the takedown. i will explain why!
  
  gameplay: goddess! from racing genaration burn out teach me how to be rude in the street while 
 im driving one of the best car in the world! of course it was just in the game, i cant afford to 
 buy some. the new type of gameplay that i can now struck the cars in front of me and the car can 
 jump from a high place.
  
  10/10
  
  graphics: this was the one of the gun flag burnout has, its graphics for those who just seen burnout 
 first time, i absoluty say that they will notice the graphics was awesome and can compare to the 
 real thing!
  
  10/10 sound: the sounds is great i feel like i really in the racing field, that make me serious 
 to be more rude in the field!
  
  9/10
  
  value: the games created by ea games burnout is one of my unforgetable game that i ever played 
 in ps2!
  
  10/10
  
  summary: for those gamers who want to play a new generation of racing and speed i highly recommend 
 burnout revenge for you to buy! it was one of the best game ea games created!......
  
  jammel gutierrez annihi355
  rudy_squall@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  A next-generation version of Criterion's breakthrough racing series, the XBox 360's Burnout Revenge 
 gives off the impression you want with every game you ever play. On the Xbox and PS2 Burnout Revenge 
 was just a different racing game, as it is now, but with a way greater impact. After playing this 
 game it really hard to describe it, because its so dang awesome. Well awesome isn't really the 
 way to say, how about Kick-Ass. Here recently when I bought my Xbox 360, I bought with it 11 games. 
 Of those 11 games, Burnout Revenge has stole most of my hours upon hours of game play. I've never 
 really been a big fan of racing games except for Nascar, but this really isn't racing, its road 
 rage. Loaded with different game types and unlockables, the Xbox 360's power exploits the greatness 
 in this type of game, and creates an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is one a of a few great games in a great series. Ever since Burnout 3: Takedown, 
 the series has improved a lot, and this is one of its best improvements.
  
  The gameply is fantastic. The game has an excellant presentaion, driving cars is easy as can be, 
 crashing cars and taking down rivals, all are simply awsome.
  
  The graphics are simply one of the best on the Xbox 360. Cars looks very well detailed and environments 
 look sharp as well. Explosions tend to look great too.
  
  Nothing much to say about the sound, engine sound effects and great music give this game a 10 out 
 of 10 on sound effects. Everything is spot on.
  
  If you love the Burnout series or just love any type of racing game, you should definately check 
 this game out. Racing in the campaign is a lot of fun , and racing online with friends is a blast 
 too.
  
  Overall, this game is such an experience to me. Racing is great fun and challenging, and just playin 
 the game when u first dive into the campain is just as great. I highly recommend this to everyone 
 who loves racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioinfomatic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  When Burnout Revenge was released last year, it's fair to admit that we were left a little disappointed. 
 After the surprise of how much Burnout 3 had evolved from its predecessor, we were hoping Criterion 
 would make the same kind of leap forward for the next version, yet unfortunately the game wasn't 
 a huge upgrade. Despite this, the game was still a lot of fun and one of the best arcade racers 
 around. Obviously, Criterion felt that they had a little more to add to Burnout Revenge which is 
 where the Xbox 360 version comes in. The main mode in Revenge is once again the World Tour mode. 
 The Crash Nav has been removed and players are given a number of races to complete. There are races, 
 previews and more in the single player mode. When a race is won the next race is unlocked, so it's 
 a fairly linear experience. Aside from this the game also introduces the idea of a Revenge ranking. 
 Players are ranked at the end of the race and start off with the rank of "harmless", and eventually 
 move their way up as they perform more aggressive moves. I hope he has insurance. The major new 
 addition to the game is the ability to check traffic. If small vehicle traffic is heading the same 
 way as your vehicle, you can bump into it to try and take out an opponent. Traffic can be checked 
 in both races and the crash modes and it works well, feeling especially gratifying the first time 
 you crash a car into an opponent and take them down. A new traffic attack mode has been included 
 to take advantage of this feature and the mode is really quite boring. The whole challenge is just 
 to bump into as much traffic as possible which becomes extremely repetitive. Thankfully there aren't 
 that many traffic attack challenges in the World Tour mode, so Criterion must have realised that 
 the mode isn't that exciting. The tracks in the game are a lot more detailed than previous tracks 
 and are based around fictional cities. All of the tracks have multiple layers, and there are numerous 
 shortcuts scattered around the levels. The tracks also seem like they are designed for battle this 
 time around, plus there are many more stationary objects to be avoided through the races, such 
 as pillars and large walls. Often these obstacles are more dangerous than your opponents cars. 
 The crash mode has been reworked since it appeared in the last game. Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 
 and PlayStation 2 had a golf system where you had to line up some some on-screen meters to gain 
 speed. This time, you press A and your vehicle will go at full pace, which makes it much easier. 
 There are no multipliers in the crash junctions either. There is a lot more strategy required because 
 the crash environments have multiple levels now, so you have to decide which way will out take 
 as many vehicles as possible. The Xbox 360 version also includes ten extra crash junctions that 
 are all just as expansive as the other junctions. The Xbox Live component of the game has also 
 received a serious overhaul. Apparently most of the development during the game was focused on 
 the online components and it really shows. For example the game now features a Live revenge feature. 
 At the beginning of each race in online play the game will show the online leader and your objective 
 is to take them out (oh yeah, and win the race) . If you take these opponents down then they become 
 your revenge rivals and the game will remember them as a revenge rival every time you log on. A 
 lot of the achievements are reserved for online battles as well so to get all 1000 achievement 
 points out of the game you will need to work hard offline and online. The main menu in Burnout 
 Revenge doesn't have a quick race option. If you want to play single player then you need to go 
 in through the World Tour mode and select a race, which is a little confusing. We were hoping that 
 Criterion would add this option into the Xbox 360 version but unfortunately if you want to race 
 in a specific location with a specific mode just for fun then you'll need to move in between the 
 excessive menus. We don't actually see a valid reason for this option to be omitted, especially 
 considering it is standard fare in racing games these days. One of the things that we've been calling 
 for to be included in Burnout is the ability to save replays. Apparently Criterion were listening, 
 as you can now save thirty second clips. It's a little disappointing that you can only save thirty 
 second clips, but it's definitely better than nothing. Immediately when a race is over the game 
 takes you to the replay and you can select which portion of the event you save. It's also possible 
 to upload these clips to Xbox Live and download other clips. In fact, one of the achievements is 
 actually having one of your clips being in the top twenty downloads. Gameplay wise the game is 
 still a lot of fun. The game is a little easier to complete because the traffic checking means 
 that only half of the vehicles are an obstacle. Sometimes it's also not possible to tell quick 
 enough if the vehicle is a large vehicle, so you may think that you're checking a vehicle and you 
 will actually be crashing into one. The Xbox 360 version also includes longer loading, so it takes 
 about twenty seconds for a race to load, which isn't too bad. The crash races load instantly though 
 which is extremely handy because you'll be replaying the crash modes quite a few times. Oooh, detail. 
 Graphically the game isn't a huge upgrade from the Xbox version. But since the game looked so amazing 
 on the Xbox, it still looks great here. There is a little more detail in the game and the vehicles 
 definitely look a lot more damaged at the end of a race - just don't expect a huge upgrade. Unless 
 of course you get things running in HD, when things look a whole lot better. As much as we hate 
 to admit it, the EA Games Trax in this game are actually reasonably good. Criterion have also included 
 the Burnout 2 theme music and that plays on the main menu, a great little homage to the past. The 
 world tour mode only lasts about ten hours. If you want to improve your ranking then you can unlock 
 some Xbox 360 achievements in the process. The real appeal of the game after the World Tour mode 
 is with the multiplayer. The Xbox Live features are very compelling and if you enjoy multiplayer 
 gaming then this is the best version of Burnout to be playing on Live. Burnout Revenge isn't a 
 huge upgrade from the versions that were released six months ago but the game definitely feels 
 a lot more polished. The crash junctions are a lot more fun now because there is no fiddling around 
 at the beginning and there are extra junctions. The graphics look good but the Xbox Live achievements 
 are the primary reason to purchase this game. It's a lot of fun being able to save your own replays 
 and upload them online and creating online rivals is extremely addictive. We had expected that 
 the game would be a basic port, but it really does feel like this is the ultimate version of Burnout. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Having been a huge fan of Burnout 3: Takedown, Burnout Revenge had me worried it would be too similar. 
 But that's a good thing apparently, because the two have so much in common that there were only 
 improvements that could be made when Burnout Revenge was released. If you have surround sound hooked 
 up to your 360 (which I don't) I can only imagine what the turbo sounds like when you unleash the 
 fury. It sounds like a jet engine on my regular tv, and the crashes are just ridiculous. I've never 
 found myself heading straight at a pillar and freezing up and thinking to myself "oh wow, this 
 is gonna be real bad" in any other racing game I have ever played. That's probably because hitting 
 a pillar in this game makes your entire car look like in just played chicked with a frieght train. 
 The crashes are spectacular, and takedowns are still the claim to fame in this racing action. Sending 
 other cars off cliffs, picking them off pillars, and bumping them into oncoming traffic is a roadrageaholic's 
 dream. So owners of the 360, at least rent this game and get crazy on the road - you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Anyway this game is killer. I don't usually like race games. They are fun and all but usually to 
 plain or technical. I am into more of the crazy blow up everything shooter type, so this game was 
 perfect for me. One of the most important aspects of this game is destruction and speed. You get 
 boost for crashing cars and tight moves and all the dangerous stuff. There is plenty in this game 
 to keep you from getting bored also. There are different events with different motives, the only 
 problem is one of them will be your least favorite. That won't matter because it will still be 
 fun. The sound track is cool, not my type of music but I believe you can change that. I have been 
 too busy playing the game to try. The graphics are awesome the destruction is awesome the fun factor 
 is awesome, it is just a great game over all. The point is for the price it is great considering 
 it is all about chaos racing. Good buy for friends that come over and dont play games as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameron06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  burnout revenge was released for the ps2 & xbox about 5 months ago and it is still unmatched by 
 any other racing game in the world until now.
  
  burnout revenge for the xbox 360 is with out a dought the best racing game the hit this next gen 
 concle. if you've played burnout for a long time then you'll know what to expect from this game 
 and it will meet your expectations.
  if you've play burnout revenge for the ps2 or xbox you've pretty much know what you're going to 
 get from this one. I'll go over the differences: burnout revenge for the xbox 360 is a much better 
 looking game the ps2 and xbox ones, and the very unsmooth frame rate has been filled out, plus 
 also the little thing before the crash junctions when you have to fill the bar the get boost has 
 been striped out in this verson you just start of with full boost, also the online mode has had 
 some inporvement. burnout revenge has a kinda rusty style to it it doesent look clean like burnout 
 3. burnout revenge gets it name for one key aspect in the game revenge this is basicly when you 
 get takedown by the cpu or another player (in online mode) a big red logo will appear over there 
 head saying revenge then once you've taken them down its called a revenge takedown. also a new 
 thing in the game is trafic attack in the prevous game you had to avoid traffic to not crash and 
 loose but in burnout revenge you can just smash into traffic and you wont crash. but if you smash 
 into traffic going youre way you will crash. in the world tour mode there abot 200 different crash, 
 traffic attack and race events so it will take some time to pass that.
  
  in summary: burnout revenge for the xbox 360, looks better, feels more tighter, has a smooth frame 
 rate, feels more faster. and even is you've played the other ones elesewhere and you have a xbox 
 360 you should have burnout revenge, if you played all the burnout game forever and have a xbox 
 360 then get this one now and if your just getting started to play the burnout series you should 
 start here it will totally blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_2006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is a fast-pace racing game full of fast cars and stuff explodiing! Let me explain 
 how this game is are based on Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, and Value.
  
  Gameplay {8} Not as great as I expected. It's basically the same thing on the current gem consoles. 
 So if you played Burnout Revenge on the PS2 or Xbox, you'll probably say to yourself, "Hey, didn't 
 I already do this?" This game is ONLY for people who have an Xbox 360 and has NEVER played Burnout 
 Revenge. Because if you did already play Burnout Revenge, you won't enjoy it as much.
  
  Graphics {9} For an Xbox 360 game, the game's graphics aren't as "Next-Gen" looking. They almost 
 look exactly the same as the current-gen console. 
  
  Sound {10} AWESOME sound in this game! When you crash into something, it actually sounds like you 
 crashed into it!
  
  Value {8} You can beat this game really easily, and there's little replay value. So playing it 
 again won't feel any special.
  
  Overall, this game is superb. Another great Burnout game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapperforfree
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is a video game in the Burnout series. It was released for the PS2 and Xbox on 
 September 13, 2005, alongside the PSP game Burnout Legends. Building on the success of Burnout 
 3: Takedown, Revenge boasts a number of improvements in graphics, game physics, rival AI, as well 
 as the ability to utilize traffic as a weapon (Traffic Checking) .
  
  The tracks have been improved and are now built for battling, with many alternate routes, shortcuts 
 and obstacles.
  
  Other new features include 'In-race Crashbreaker' (the ability to blow ones car up after a crash 
 to cause damage) , vertical takedowns, multiple route tracks with huge air opportunities, and traffic 
 checking, which allows the player to hit same-way traffic without wrecking. To check traffic, one 
 must hit light weight traffic (cars, small vans etc.) travelling in the same direction. If you 
 ram into a Bus or Truck, or hit any traffic head-on, you crash. With practice, this can be used 
 to clear junctions, destroy heavy or oncoming traffic, score extra points in crash mode and even 
 takedown rivals.
  
  The crash mode has been tweaked to incorporate a new launch system with which to propel the car 
 from the starting line while wind physics have been introduced that affect the in air trajectory 
 of your car. The weight of the car accounts for more now as it plows through traffic and flies 
 through the air (the heavier your car the less affected by wind it is) .
  
  The game also features an online mode for PS2 and Xbox Live. Among the new features is a new ranking 
 system, a 'Crash Tour' mode, and a reworked online Road Rage mode where the Blue team must escape 
 being taken out by the Red team for as long as possible. A few weeks before it was released, a 
 demo of the game was included with Madden NFL 06 for the PS2 and Xbox.
  
  The Xbox 360 version of Burnout Revenge includes several brand new features and improves the graphics 
 of the game to match the power of the next-gen console. The game includes 10 new crash junctions 
 on the Crash Tour. It also includes a vastly improved online mode that introduces online Revenge 
 Rivals. This system allows you to keep track of the number of times you have been taken out or 
 have taken out any given player. This allows for long term rivalries between players, as players 
 fight to get Revenge on their opponents.
  
  The new version also includes a new Burnout Clips feature, which allows you to save 30 second clips 
 of any offline race you play and share them with players over Xbox Live.
  
  Furthermore, the Xbox 360 version removes the launch meter from Crash Mode that was seen in the 
 PS2/Xbox version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaseSPARTAN117
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a good racing game with some great graphics and sweet gameplay, look no further 
 Burnout Revenge will give you both! Burnout Revenge makes all of the other racing games look like 
 crap. The really cool thing about Burnout Revenge is the online play. I personally think the online 
 play is the best part of the game, even though it has a good single player mode. What makes it 
 good and fair online is the fact that everybody has all the cars unlocked letting some people who 
 never beat the game to race with cars they don't have. All in all it's a fun game and is very good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Terrific graphics, including the textures, car damage models, modeled cars, backgrounds, glares, 
 and everything.
  Pretty decent soundtrack. A good mix between rock, house, and punk. 
  One of the reasons why Xbox Live was produced was because of Burnout Revenge's multiplayer. There's 
 a good set of modes to play on.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  In crash mode, sometimes there's a slight lag. I haven't noticed lag otherwise.
  Towards the 
 very end of the game, you tend to be tired of doing the same thing over and over.
  Some minor glitches that tend to make the game even more easier than it already is.
  
  :Overall:
 
  Burnout Revenege has all the goods of the originals, but with the extra tweaks to set it apart. 
 And with the 360's power, it explodes onto your screen with higher res textures and a higher sound 
 quality.
  
  --------------------------------------
  
  :100% Achievement Difficulty:
  Hard - The only thing that really makes it hard is getting your saved clips in the top 20 downloads. 
 Some of the levels are really difficult to go through perfectly unless you're perfect at the game. 
 Other than that, the game is purely you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is a game with many different events: Races, road rage, burning laps, and crash 
 junctions.
  In every event you get a rating and a medal depending on your performance. To get the highest rating 
 you have to get an "Awesome Rating" and a Gold Medal.
  So your not a fan of racing games? Most racings you played where borgin because the cars you faced 
 didn't take damage? Well you might want to try this game. In races you can crash into other cars 
 and if they crash you score a Takedown and get your rating up.
  In every event you get a rating and a medal depending on your performance. To get the highest rating 
 you have to get an "Awesome Rating" and a Gold Medal.
  And if you still don't like the racing, fear not! You can face other cars on a track and try to 
 get as many takedowns as possible in Road Rage.
  Or by using strategy, you can cause as much damage possible in a crash junction where your damage 
 is calculated in dollars.
  And of course to unlock secret cars you can do a burning lap and beat a track in a certain amount 
 of time.
  Don't get the wrong impression, Burnout Revenge isn't just a racing game. It is a car game with 
 so much to do you will be hooked for hours.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge was a great game on the Xbox. The crash mode wasn't everything I wanted it to be, 
 but it was good none the less. Well, the series returns in a new Xbox 360 version that improves 
 an already great game better than ever. For starters, the entire game from the Xbox version is 
 back in this version and it plays better than ever. There are many new improvements made to the 
 game that make the 360 version worth getting. First, the graphical power of the 360 makes the game 
 look a ton better than it did on the Xbox. When you finish the race, you'll see all of the damage 
 made to your car in all it's glory. Paint is coming off, scratches and dents galore cover your 
 damaged vehicle which just destroyed the competition... literally. There are now achievements to 
 be unlocked and you can record your best crashes and share them online. The online mode is also 
 better with the addition of Online Revenge. Now, when ever you crash into a person onine, they 
 become your revenge rival and are more inclined to attack you. This adds a lot to the online mode. 
 The crash mode has been improved now that you launch automatically. This is a much improved version 
 of an already great game. It also has some of the easiest achievements I have ever seen.
  
  Gameplay: The best of Burnout is back and the improved crash mode adds to the overall quality.
 
  
  Graphics: Burnout looks better than ever on the Xbox 360.
  
  Sound: Sound effects are improved and it sounds better than ever.
  
  Value: It does cost a 
 bit more than the current gen versions, but it is worth the extra cost. 
  
  Final Thoughts: Burnout Revenge is a must buy racing game for the Xbox 36o that should not be missed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _xXx_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  If you liked Burnout 3 for Xbox, you'll surely like Burnout Revenge on the 360. New cars, better 
 graphics, great sound, but same fun factor.
  It could have used some more updating than what it did, but still was no disapointment.
  The 
 single player side has lots of different goals to achieve so that it keeps you occupied.
  The multiplayer keeps the replay value by allowing you to play various different ways against your 
 friends or the general public. You can set your own personal goals by trying to obtain all of the 
 achievements that are avaliable on Xbox Live.
  Try it out and have fun with which ever mode you decide to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadynate82
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  
  Game-play: 
  I think Burnout has successfully done better and better in this category every release. This holds 
 true with all new traffic checking and the intense feeling of speed. The unlock mode although has 
 changed with looks holds the same style as did the previous franchise award winner and now platinum 
 hit tittle. This area of the game is recommended.
  
  Graphics:
  Now if you have Revenge on another current generation console, well you are not missing much. There 
 is a appreciative touch of textures and detail that might be missing in the original X-box and 
 Playstaion version. The sense of speed has definitely improved but all together with a twenty dollar 
 bump in price. This department of the game is NOT recommended.
  
  Sound:
  Oh sound... how much I love you!! Narrowly dodging cars and hearing them blow by you like bullets. 
 Have cars getting checked at you with tires screeching from the luckless driver trying desperately 
 to enjoy their morning coffee, this game did fine to make me anxious in every mode in the game 
 whether racing or not. This area is a recommend!
  
  Value:
  You can truly play this game and have all the fun and excitement of a racing and crash 'em up style 
 of racing. This is a blend of the Flat Out series meets Need for Speed. On-line mode features a 
 revenge part where they keep track of the people who have one over or under you in the wrecking 
 department. Which generates some tension even before the start of race. NOW THAT'S REVENGE! Party 
 Crash mode leaves the fate of the wheel up to you, but has noticeably upgraded in difficulty. This 
 area is up for recommendation.
  
  My Tilt:
  Well I have been a fan of the series due to Takedown and was a little skeptical with the new traffic 
 check mode which drew a lesser difficulty point of mind to me. I played the down-loaded demo and 
 loved it. At the time of writing this re-view the game is only $39.99 which makes this game a definite 
 must have for driving gamers who REALLY have a need for speed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  Burnout is a high-speed semi-combat racing game that requires fast reflexes. It is not about realistic 
 shifting or attempting not to run into any traffic. The game allows you to take down other players, 
 making the game much more exciting. Although there are no crazy weapons like Full Auto or Twisted 
 Metal, your car becomes your weapon.
  
  I am not much of a standard racing game fan. But this game is too much fun to resist. Taking down 
 cars and causing huge accidents, both the online and offline modes are extremely fun. The achievements 
 are well-placed, some you obtain as you go along, others you'll have to work at.
  
  The control scheme is very simple, and the game is real easy to pick-up. But with all the short-cuts 
 and little tricks that can get you the upper edge, it takes a while to master.
  
  A HDTV definately helps in this game, because being able to see those little cars 0.5 seconds faster 
 could prevent an accident. Expect people to get angry with you online, as it is a very aggressive 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is, as the header says, the racing game for people who never really got into racing games. 
 There is enough straight racing there for people who are a fan to get their fix, but the key word 
 here is moderation. In addition to racing, time trial, and GP events, there are events like Crash, 
 Eliminator, and Traffic Check where the sole purpose is to drive aggressively.
  
  I'll start off with the racing aspects. In my opinion there are three events that have a straight 
 racing appeal to them, the Race, Burning Lap, and GP. The race is, as it sounds, a race that pits 
 you against seven other computer controlled players. Even in this straight race though, the key 
 to getting a 100% completion on this game is to drive aggressively. You'll be rated on things such 
 as 'checking' traffic, weaving in and out of traffic, and doing 'take-downs.' This is where the 
 game gets REALLY fun. Doing things to an opponent like slamming him into a pillar, shunting him 
 into oncoming traffic, or dropping down on top of him from a ramp results in a take-down. This 
 causes the player to crash and gives you a boost bonus and just really never gets old, as the game 
 sets up specific points in each location to have you try to get a take down (for example slamming 
 someone into construction equipment located at one point on a course) .
  
  For those that get tired of going head on against other opponents have four other options open, 
 those being Crash, Eliminator, Road Rage, or Traffic Check. Eliminator is kind of a hybrid of racing 
 and simply trying to get take downs, as every thirty seconds the person in last place is eliminated 
 (hence the name) , so taking people out will give you the upper hand. Crash is just straight "see 
 how much money in damages I can rack up" and has an almost puzzle like feel to it as you have to 
 hit the right cars at the right time to reach the gold medal prize.
  
  The online aspect of Burnout is golden. The connection is very solid and it's easy to jump right 
 into your favorite event and take off. This is also where the very interesting mechanic of "Revenge" 
 comes most in to play. If a person takes you out online (or offline for that matter) that person 
 becomes your Revenge rival, and is marked by a red cursor over him. The game keeps track of who 
 your rivals are and calls them out for you before each race. There are few more satisfying things 
 than beating the crap out of the same car all day, or likewise finally settling the score with 
 a car that's been handing it to you all day.
  
  Overall, the game is a blast and deserves to be in every XBox 360 owner's library, even if you're 
 not a fan of the racing genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groundzero2024
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is really fun. The graphics are amazing and the cars and scenery look really nice. 
 The online is cool and it's really easy and fast to get into a race. Offline is fun, too. When 
 you're online, the races are really fast paced and there is other stuff to do like, download videos 
 and submit videos. There is also alot of cars and different race types that you can do. I like 
 the regular races the best. I don't really like racing games but I found myself playing this one 
 alot. Overall, if you're a fan of racing games or if you don't really like them, Burnout Revenge 
 is a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I remember renting this game way back when it was released for the Xbox. And I loved it then. But 
 when I heard it was out for the 360, I had to get it. And while there isn't a whole lot of new 
 stuff here, it's definetly better than the original. The first and most obvious update is the graphics. 
 The visuals on the cars is absolutely stunning, as well as the lighting effects. The lighting looks 
 particularly nice in the darker sunset tracks. Also, the cars are much more detailed, and explode 
 into millions of tiny pieces, and the explosions look awesome. The game looks even better when 
 played in high-def, with crisp, razor-sharp textures.
  The sound is also pretty good, especially in surround-sound.
  A few other things available this 
 time around are several new crash-modes, which are tons of fun. The racing is also super-fast and 
 furious as always, and taking your eye off the screen for a split second almost always results 
 in disaster. I've played quite a few racing games for the 360, but this is easily my favourite, 
 because it's fast, fun, and there's tons of things to do. And once you finish the single-player 
 (which takes quite some time) there are loads of fun things to do online. One of my favourite things 
 is the online rivalry. Taking out other players will result in a rivalry, where that person will 
 try and take you out and settle the score. It can be pretty exciting. It's one of those games that 
 you'll probably be playing for quite some time, long after completing it. 
  If you're tired of the super-realistic racing games like PGR2, you definetly wanna buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnager
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Who doesnt want to smack into cars full speed and see the destruction that happens afterwards? 
 Everyone. Which is really what this game is about. The racing is alright I guess but the crashing 
 games is really where this games heart is. On some crashes I really couldnt do anything except 
 let my mouth drop. The explosions that you get after powering up due to the amount of cars you 
 crash really add to the awesomeness. The screaming from people when they crash is really amusing 
 and funny too. I dont really think the graphics arent that next gen but I didnt really let that 
 get in the way. The world tour mode is really fun and will probably offer a lot of replay value 
 until you get the best score for ever little thing. XBL is pretty fun too from the little I played. 
 I'm not sure if I would reccomend this game for everyone, but it definetly was amusing and was 
 fun for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -eGameR-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  by far the best racing game ever. intence action, great graphics, and THE BEST SOUND I HAVE EVER 
 HEARD IN A VIDEO GAME. the only thing that is bad is that there is not one licenced car in the 
 entire freakin game. but when u start playing, u forget all about that. ive only had it for 2 days 
 and already played it for like 15 hours. im addicted. AMAZING GAME. get it now. i havent really 
 played the other games on ps2 or the regular xbox so i dont know how much it has changed, but having 
 played the xbox 360 version... i dont think they need to change anything, just need to get some 
 licenced cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Who ever said 4th times the charm? I did! This is game is really really unique. I never thought 
 Burnout would finally come to this. Racing and crashing!?! Now thats a great mix! So whenever you 
 get mad at the game you just turbo and WHAM! hit the guy off the track! Its soooo fun. There is 
 a great variety of cars to choose from. There are plenty of levels to keep you occupied for quite 
 awhile. Within the levels you have a few different modes. There is Crash, where you pretty much 
 just... crash. There are regular races where you race to the finish. There is also a crash breaker 
 race, the funnest race yet. Play and figure out why. You get ranks in this game. I dont know how 
 high it goes... yet... but they go high. The higher the rank, the cooler you are. Well, this game 
 is, know bout adoubt it, worth getting! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space-Wolf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow. What an amazing game! If you are sick of the boring, realistic crap in Grand Turismo, BURNOUT 
 IS YOUR SAVIOUR!!!"
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Awesome. This is no racing sim. This is pure, arcade awesomeness to the max! The controls are easy, 
 the drifting is awesome and smooth, unlike Grand Turismo where you crash into every wall trying 
 to turn. If your speedometer says you're going 200MPH, it feels like you're going 500. You can 
 nail traffic cars from behind, and like Takedown, you can pwn opponents too. 
  
  The coolest addition to Burnout's gameplay is they added a TON of shortcuts which are all amazingly 
 fun. Some involve you flying over a street after going off a ramp. The gameplay is just pure insane 
 awesome fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Awesome again. This may not be the 360's greatest graphics, but they sure as hell rock! Very, very 
 good for a launch title. Everything is very highly detailed. The only thing is, the speed blur 
 makes it hard to see sometimes, which was annoying at first, but after you get used to it, it's 
 freakin sweet.
  
  Sound:
  
  Great sound. The boost sounds great, the cars sound wicked, everything rocks.
  
  Value:
  
 
  This game is pure awesomeness. It has tons of replay value, awesome multiplayer, and a very fun 
 story mode, GET IT NOW!
  
  Reviewers Tilt: Everything I've already said X10.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWildthang
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  You could justify buying this game on the single player aspect alone. I owned Burnout on my old 
 Xbox and enjoyed it immensly from start to finish. But Revenge manages to raise the bar even further 
 and not only improve on the single player game in just about every area but also present one of 
 the most cohesive and intense Live games available on the 360.
  
  Criterion has implemented a simple yet effective 'revenge' system which tracks all the people you've 
 crossed paths with in previous races. So if you've pummled some poor guy into the wall a number 
 of times you'll be pride of place at the top of his revenge hit list the next time he joins a race 
 that you're in.
  
  At the start of each race you can instantly see who you've taken down before (denoted by a green 
 exclamation mark) and those who are looking to settle the score with you (denoted by a green exclamation 
 mark) . Just to hammer the point home there's a quick 'fly by' of the grid highlighting the people 
 looking to settle a score with you and those you should be looking to ram into the nearest bus.
 
  
  I would highly reccomend that newbies to the Burnout series finish the single player game before 
 venturing online (unless you've got a lot of patience) . Almost all of the player created sessions 
 are played with the fastest available cars, so the sheer pace of the races can be punishing to 
 a new comer.
  
  All in all, even if you have a passing interest in racing games - give Burnout Revenge a try. Singleplayer 
 is brilliant - but it's the multiplayer mode that really shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanrodriguez
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I need to preface this by saying I've always loved the Burnout franchise and this newest addition 
 is by far the best. HD graphics + surround sound + Crashbreakers = good times had by all. Seriously 
 I love just about everything about this game and I'm not usually one for racing games but this 
 is the 360 game that's been in my console the most. The intelligent AI, easy controls, breathtaking 
 crashes, and music make this the most enterating game I've bought in a while. Not to mention the 
 sheer volume of races and different types. This is not your Grand Turismo impossible races, these 
 are actually fun and you end up finding yourself trying to get perfects on all the races. I can't 
 say enough about this game except buy it, BUY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deaver666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Upon buying this game I played it offline and was quite disgraced by how stupidly easy it was. 
 I swear they made this strictly for 3 year olds! I played for hours though out of intrest I must 
 say it does get better once you hit the 200+ mph so it does take patiance. 
  
  Online it just gave me a huge stonker playing it the people are friendley in this community so 
 beginners do actulley get welcomed ;) 
  And the speed I swear it got faster and more tence and I loved it .
  
  So I recommend it for 
 the online players and the bloody point grubbers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360FREAK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up when I got my xbox live starter kit. The reason for this is because the starter 
 kit came with a 20 dollar rebate, and the game was only 40 dollars, so it really only cost me 20 
 dollars. I'm Glad that the world tour mode is long because I prefer PGR3 online over Burnout, mainly 
 because of my hatred towards EA servers. The difficulty to this game is just right for me, but 
 don't get me wrong I've threw my controller after missing some burning laps by less than .5 seconds, 
 so it has it's hard part wich is'nt a bad thing. I saw the graphics for this game on the original 
 xbox and thought that it could'nt get any better, but the x360 version definetly looks sharper 
 but if you have an xbox you really should'nt upgrade. The sound is where I think the game shines, 
 especially if you have surround sound. You can hear the metal scraping, the tires skidding, the 
 jet like boost, and the terrific soundtrack all at once. But the value for me is a little low because 
 I really don't race online much, but the world tour is long so I should be playing this game a 
 good while longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  What I want: option to set controller sensitivity and gamma/brightness setting; this game is very 
 contrasty in color.
  
  Anyway, I've owned Burnout 3 for Xbox and Burnout Legends for PSP (both great games) and this is 
 quite a step up in overall game quality, no doubt. Aside from my two quabbles about the features, 
 this is a perfect game. The online play is excellent, and the single player is even better.
  
  I've only got a couple of hours on this game so far, so I can't tell long-term yet, but my 
 console completely froze during an online race. I've owned my 360 for about 6 months now and haven't 
 seen that yet. It froze to the point where I had to completely restart the console. That seems 
 odd, and I hope it's not a forecast of things to come.
  
  This is a top-notch/must-have game for any racing fan, or anyone who just likes speed. This game 
 is FAAAAST!!!
  
  Update 7/26/06
  I'll upgrade my opinion: this IS a perfect game. It's a masterpiece and destined to be a classic. 
 It's the coolest racing game on the Xbox 360 so far, and possibly the best auto racing game in 
 history. Everything about it is perfect: the cars, the tracks, the music, the graphics, the replay, 
 and most of all, speed SPEED SPEED!
  
  You absolutely cannot be a fan of racing games and not want this in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Sleek graphics, amazing sound effects, frantic fun, replays are great fun watch again and again, 
 reaching high speeds is phenomenal (just like on PGR3) , unlockable extras and achievements to unlock.
 
  
  Cons:
  --------
  Where is the demo with the bonus car? More of the sam after a while.
  
  Burnout 3 Takedown 
 set a bar for all future Burnout game, and Revenge was expected to be a refurbished version of 
 Takedown, but when people saw the revenge system and incredible graphics, they played for longer, 
 unlocking the games addictive challenges and races.
  The car models on this game rival those of Ridge Racer 6, NFS: MW and PGR3, and with so many to 
 unlock and customize, theres no reason to stop playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterC2009
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Now, I don't know about you, but I am not a car game fun. In fact, I abhor the stuff. However, 
 my friend lent me the game and I couldn't just pass a free game opportunity up. Well, I played 
 it, and I found out just how addicting the game really is. I was AMAZED!! The graphics are awesome, 
 the gameplay is awesome, and the controls are fairly easy. Plus, it is awesome to rip cars a new 
 one. I honestly cannot find one bad thing about this game, I am just to impressed with it. you 
 could play this for hours on end and still want more. the multiplayer is fun, too, and it can be 
 quite a convenient game when a party is going on. the online is awesome to. this game is completely 
 worth you money and time, and its replay value is EXTREMELY high. Plus the desire for achievement 
 points make you want to complete every bit of it. The cars are amazing and can be humouring sometimes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  I purchased the previous burnout game before revenge for the xbox and loved it. My friends and 
 I sat around for endless hours playing the crash events, so needless to say I was pumped about 
 seeing what the next gen version had to offer. Well, I wasnt let down at all. The graphics and 
 sound track are solid. The gameplay is so easy to pickup on and whoaaa the crash events are mindblowing. 
 I love the way they improved on the crash break (the part where you blow your car up after causing 
 so many recks/damage) . And the graphics once you blow your car up are just plain awesome. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone no matter what kind of gamer you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is a high-speed semi-combat racing game that requires fast reflexes. It is not about realistic 
 shifting or attempting not to run into any traffic. The game allows you to take down other players, 
 making the game much more exciting. Although there are no crazy weapons like Full Auto or Twisted 
 Metal, your car becomes your weapon.
  
  I am not much of a standard racing game fan. But this game is too much fun to resist. Taking down 
 cars and causing huge accidents, both the online and offline modes are extremely fun. The achievements 
 are well-placed, some you obtain as you go along, others you'll have to work at.
  
  The control scheme is very simple, and the game is real easy to pick-up. But with all the short-cuts 
 and little tricks that can get you the upper edge, it takes a while to master.
  
  A HDTV definately helps in this game, because being able to see those little cars 0.5 seconds faster 
 could prevent an accident. Expect people to get angry with you online, as it is a very aggressive 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDragon100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The Whole game is the best in its series, none of the burnouts can beat this, the multiplayer is 
 enhanced so it can track how many times someone has took you down. If anyone thinks that this game 
 is not good, they are completely out of their mind. When i started playing this on my 360, the 
 gameplay gets better, and if anyone has only played it on any other console, they haven't experienced 
 burnout at all, now this gets into HD. So if you see this game in the store and you have a 360, 
 buy it, its worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I will start off with my one and only gripe with this game.... WHERE IS THE INSTANT ACTION!!!! You 
 know, like the arcade mode where you can choose which track, car, and game mode you want to play??? 
 Yeah, well that option is absent from this game.... bummer for me...
  
  There are more game modes available in this installment.... and one good one in particular.... the 
 one where you get to ram countless cars as hard as you can from behind until you time out... yeah.... thats 
 pretty awesome...
  
  The graphics are great and the sound is as well.... although the dang car alarms and horns get annoying 
 at the end of a crash.... The crashes are just phenominal thanks to the NexGen graphics of the 
 360....
  
  Overall, this game is great! If you are new to the burnout series, buy it.... if you have played 
 them all in the past.... just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 is an average game, that doesn't live up to the series' well-earned 
 name, and as a result is a repetitive mess of crashes and weak circuit racing elements. Here's 
 the lowdown:
  
  The Good: Crashes look awesome, the game looks awesome, the soundtrack is great, the cars are good.
 
  
  The Bad: The tracks to race on get very repetitive and bland, too easy to level up, circuit racing 
 feels very out of place, lap racing feels akward and very out of place, feels like a cash-in, Xbox 
 Live support is bland. 
  
  The Bottom Line: If you're new to the Burnout universe, don't buy this game. Buy Burnout 3: Takedown 
 instead. It's a lot better. If you're thinking about buying this game again, DON'T! Keep your current 
 version and save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  i dont like racers.
  
  really i dont.
  
  i got this in a bundle i got with my 360 for 400 with 6 games, this ,i have to say, has racked 
 up the most time as it really is addictive and, i have to say, the most arcade-ey and pure fun 
 games ive had the pleasure to play in at least 5 years.
  
  the goal is simple, race and destroy, to a loud soundtrack and fast paced competitors, rasing the 
 ranks from 'harmless' to 'assassin' and then take your skills online to challenge freinds and get 
 revenge on your enemies.
  
  the basic system is still burnout, collect trophys and cars from races while improveing your rank 
 with one difference, the revenge system.
  
  lets say your in a grand prix mission your doing great till a damn bot car takes you down with 
 a ... er takedown, and then you now have the ability to hunt them down and take them down to get 
 a special revenge icon, which leads to unlockable achievements for your gamerscore online.
  
  basically this game is non stop fast past action that never stops, forget hours tweaking car 
 parts and using powerslides, this is fast paced form the get go and never slows down, its great 
 fun and its got so mutch time to it that its one of the few games that are really next gen AND 
 worth the money you pay for it.
  
  play it ,love it , i wouldnt have it any other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying: If you have purchased Burnout: Revenge for other consoles, don't expect 
 too much more. Revenge for the Xbox 360 has much better graphics, and a few more races in the Burnout: 
 World Tour mode... but that is about it. Oh, and the online feature is improved a bunch.
  
  Burnout is a high-speed semi-combat racing game that requires fast reflexes. It is not about realistic 
 shifting or attempting not to run into any traffic. The game allows you to take down other players, 
 making the game much more exciting. Although there are no crazy weapons like Full Auto or Twisted 
 Metal, your car becomes your weapon.
  
  I am not much of a standard racing game fan. But this game is too much fun to resist. Taking down 
 cars and causing huge accidents, both the online and offline modes are extremely fun. The achievements 
 are well-placed, some you obtain as you go along, others you'll have to work at.
  
  The control scheme is very simple, and the game is real easy to pick-up. But with all the short-cuts 
 and little tricks that can get you the upper edge, it takes a while to master.
  
  A HDTV definately helps in this game, because being able to see those little cars 0.5 seconds faster 
 could prevent an accident. Expect people to get angry with you online, as it is a very aggressive 
 game.
  
  There are a few downfalls however. The single player mode tends to get repetitive, but I was able 
 to play it all the way through (and perfect every event) . You should be able to find plenty of 
 people online to play with, so enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricane_333
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  The Burnout series returns to our sweaty hands and exhilarated hearts for a fourth burn round the 
 track, this time making its debut on the Xbox 360. To call this a stand-alone title would be an 
 explosive lie however. BR360 is based on its Xbox counterpart, the only difference being the sharper 
 graphics and 50 price tag. The last Burnout title drove us up the wall (sorry) with its fast paced, 
 eye bleeding gaming velocity. So far up the wall that we were standing on the side of the wall 
 saying this game is so fast I cant actually see where Im going. 
  
  Good news for the Sunday drivers then, that that there are a wealth of new game modes to take part, 
 most of which dont require you to actually own Bernards Watch. No, you wont need to physically 
 stop time with an imaginary stop watch to get your bearings in game modes such as Crash, wherein 
 the aim is to simply steer your vehicular beast into similar, oncoming vehicular beasts in the 
 hopes of creating enough insurance damage to get a shiny medal and a place on the leader boards. 
 Sadistically meeting a family RV head on is fun for a while, but after experiencing the mayhem 
 on Burnouts 2 and 3, the concept is getting stale.
  
  If Burnout was a car, the engine of the game would lie in the world tour, where you get to take 
 part in high octane, airbag inducing races around locations from Asia, Europe and America, earning 
 new cars and more shiny medals along the way. The glittering chassis would take the form of the 
 polished graphics of BR360 that show off every shard of glass and spark that laden every collision. 
 The Skoda badge however would reflect the games gameplay speed. Like the Skoda, it just doesnt 
 work very well. The blur effect at the sides of the screen and jittery frame rate dont help you 
 when youre hurtling along on the wrong side of the road at 180 mph.
  
  To anyone that hasnt experienced Burnout on the Xbox, I recommend BR360 about as much as Q recommends 
 an Aston Martin to James Bond. Do try and keep it in one piece though wont you? Just in-case you 
 make a return visit to the store once the novelty of speed has worn off
  
  7.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRenegade4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge the best racer on the 360. u should go n get it very good game, graphics r very 
 good n th e gameplay is also the crashes r amazing
  and the levels n citys r really good n nice tracks. the world tour single player is some what hard 
 in the being but then gets easy at the middle n the last couple of events get tough. but its a 
 great game. i love it, online is fun n play r cool 2 play wit. the cars r so nice n graphics r 
 so amazing. you should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtnhl11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This is that one racer game I always wanted. It has real good graphics and has awesome gameplay. 
 I beat this game farely quick but its always fun to play again. The live is pretty good. SIx players. 
 I gave this game a 9.5 because it is so awesome and i could play it all day. The value for this 
 game is unbelivable i mean come on 40 dollers for this game thats so good. Too bad i bought it 
 at 60 doller price but its even worth that price. So dont even waste time renting it just buy the 
 dang thang its worthwhile and a great experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  This title is certainly a mixed bag. Gripping on-line play with a few glitches that repeatedly surfaced 
 while playing on-line. The single player mode is good for
  a short oooh and ahhh period, but then the terrible Ai starts to get your attention.
  Imagine 
 smokin' everyone off the starting line, you're nailing all the "shortcuts",
  you're driving the perfect lap, screaming along at top speed, you see the finish
  line and before 
 you can smile the game will spawn an Ai opponent behind you
  and it will blast past you across the finish line at the last possible moment,
  taking the win 
 in a most unforgivable manner. Unforgivable because you are already tearing along at top speed so 
 how can someone pass you like you're
  towing or dragging something behind you. If that doesn't frustrate you then the next race it will 
 spawn a couple of Ai opponents to take you out at or right
  before the finish line. That and the Ai drivers ALWAYS appear at the most
  critical sections in 
 the race just in time to try and take you out. In the Grand Prix
  events (best of 3 races) the Ai drivers will actually pull over and wait for you. In 
  a racing 
 event? This type of cheap Ai behavior will soon get to you in the single player mode. The game does 
 redeem itself somewhat with on-line play.
  Somewhat meaning that in 8 hours of on-line racing I was robbed of 2 first
  places and a second 
 place. The game just straight up gave it to the person who came in second. This did not occur again 
 for that on-line session but 
  then one of those goes a very long way. You have losers that will set an ambush for unwitting players, such 
 as in a road rage event it pits 3 against 3 in a "race-chase"event. These little people will give 
 themselves the fastest
  cars and unlimited nitro and give their opponents slower cars that can be nailed or taken down 
 at the starting line. I guess this is the only way these losers can compete. After a few hours on 
 being on-line you will soon learn
  to avoid these ambushes and the game is intense to the extreme. My deodorant failed in no time at 
 all, hands cramped (first console) , stunned by how these people could drive at these speeds and not 
 hit everythingl.
  This game on-line is the very definition of fast-paced. Much more than any shooter I have ever played 
 or any genre for that matter. If on-line racing is your bag then you need to try out this title 
 on-line. After 3-4 hours on-line you will feel like you've been rode hard and put away wet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  This is good game on all Platforms-
  so if u haven't got this game should buy it and enjoy it.
  At the start its difficult to handle 
 the cars but after few minutes u will be the best driver in the game.
  It may have started out as just another post-Ridge Racer driving game with a unique focus on beautifully 
 destructive car crashes, but over the years, the Burnout series has really carved out its own spot 
 in the racing genre. Last year's Burnout 3: Takedown was when the series truly came into its own 
 by achieving a near-perfect balance between high-speed racing and nefarious racing tactics designed 
 to put the other racers out of commission. With a name like Burnout Revenge, you might expect the 
 latest game in the series to be a little rougher, a little meaner. And you'd be right. While it 
 isn't a total reinvention, Burnout Revenge makes significant alterations to the Burnout formula 
 that essentially render every other game in the series obsolete.
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pm_mac555
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Burnout has many positives and few minor issues. First off this game can be addictive; you may 
 find yourself sitting in front of the TV for 2-3 hours at a time. The level design is great, tracks 
 are created to be played forward and backwards, with only 8 tracks EA did a good job of keeping 
 all 169 events in the game interesting. The little details of Burnout Revenge are what set this 
 title far and away from other racers. The online tracking of revenge rivals (basically keeps a 
 running tally of takedowns) keeps the online experience interesting. The achievements keep you 
 coming back for more to perfect every level in every rank. Once you reach the last two to three 
 ranks (all in all 10 total) the game really challenges you to take your racing skills to the next 
 level.
  
  The few flaws I did find were in the online play, the crash party mode in particular can take upwards 
 of a minute to load one crash course, which can really put a damper on your need for destruction. 
 Lastly the single player mode can be quite difficult to complete and at the later stages down write 
 frustrating. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslingerfyre
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Well, it's a little late coming, but here's my review of Burnout: Revenge for Xbox 360. In my honest 
 opinion, this is the best racing game by far for the fairly-new 360. Sure, it might not have licensed 
 cars, or real-world tracks, or the sim handling of some other next-gen racers. In fact, the graphics 
 aren't all that next-gen either. But when it comes down to playability and fun, Burnout wins hands 
 down. What 8 year old kid doesn't love to play the crash junctions over and over? Myself, I'm 25, 
 and I love the Road Rage online. One team is red, and tries to take out all of the Blue team, while 
 Blues try desperately to race to the finish. And the tracks - whew! Quite a good number of them, 
 with good variations. Every track has a few great shortcuts, and some awesome air opportunities. 
 Some more dangerous than others. But isn't that what Burnout's all about - danger? If you're looking 
 for a racer that's a blast online, and doesn't take itself too seriously, then Burnout: Revenge 
 is your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, ever since Burnout 3 blew me away in 2004, I've become a fan of the Burnout racing 
 series. I wrote a review for last year's stellar Burnout Revenge, a game that debuted on the original 
 Xbox way back in October, and gave it a nice 9.6 out of 10. The single reason this much-enhanced 
 port doesn't get that is not because its too little, but it's certainly too late. 
  
  The gameplay is actually more fun this time around. The controls are smoother than previously, 
 and you feel a greater sense of speed, an intense feeling of going so fast that you're unstoppable. 
 The Xbox 360 also seems to bring a much appreciated level of depth and challenge, featuring more 
 intense battles between racers (as in you have to work for your takedowns) , intelligent A. I., and 
 fine-tuned level design. The twists and turns of the fair number of environments brings a little 
 challenge to the basic idea. 
  
  Of course, having played the current-gen version on Xbox Live, I can confidently say that the new 
 online play is much improved. I never had a lot of fun with the old one, to tell you the truth. 
 It felt boring, and almost tacked on. Lag plagued it as well. However, with crisper gameplay, a 
 more user-friendly interface, no lag whatsoever, and the chance to play with your 360 owning friends 
 online, it's improved phenomenally. It's just eerily more fun to play, simple as that.
  
  The graphics are of course in high definition now, and they certainly look amazing, but they occasionally 
 get choppy, and this becomes quite annoying. However, superb lighting effects and, obviously, bigger, 
 more intense crashes, takedowns, and explosions make it nearly perfect. Also, a refined menu system 
 and a crisp, user-friendly interface are incredibly improved over the annoying, seemingly bulky 
 system of old. 
  
  The sound is also excellent. A stellar song list of rock songs give it a worthy soundtrack, and 
 realistic sound effects immerse you in the exciting experience. Dolby Digital makes it literally 
 top-of-the-line in all aspects.
  
  The game launched in March at a pricey $59.99, though since then EA has lowered the price to $39.99. 
 At this new price, it is certainly a worthy purchase, but at the old price it wasn't, now considering 
 the game was $49.99 on the Xbox and PS2 five months earlier. 
  
  Overall, Burnout Revenge is the best the series has to offer as of yet. We all look forward to 
 Burnout 5 sometime soon, and hopefully it improves upon the few flaws ands adds some content. If 
 you like arcade racers, you'll like Revenge. It's as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darmi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the best Burnout game so far, with improved visuals and gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: Addictive fun. The achievements mean you really want to perfect every event. This can 
 get frustrating at times but it is well worth the time spent. The game plays as an arcade racer, 
 with more emphasis on destroying everything than on actually racing. But that is why the Burnout 
 series is an instant classic. This game is perfect for those of us who hate "normal" driving games, 
 as it is easy to pick up and play without time needed to get everything right. Just go crash into 
 something :D
  
  Graphics: With the Xbox 360's graphical power, Burnout looks better than ever. The explosions are 
 nice to look at and the detail on the cars is amazing.
  
  Sound: Lots of nice crashing sound effects. And a pretty good soundtrack to go with it.
  
  
 Value: 45 may be a bit expensive but it is no worse than any other Xbox 360 game. Well worth it 
 if you intend to get 100% completion. The online mode helps to add longevity to the game.
  
  
  Pros:
  Nice Graphics
  Addictive Gameplay
  Online Burnout? How fun!
  
  Cons:
 
  No single event or quick race mode
  Can get extremely frustrating
  There are a few minor glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advancedogie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Burnout revenge is a blast on the 360 with 10 new crash jucntions and new cars and replayes keep 
 in mind i didnt play current gen
  
  World tour get repetitive good thing it good repeted over and over
  
  multiplayer is awsome 
 the only reasen i took a points 1 is for lag
  
  getting though events is easy but perfecting them not so easy
  
  racings is straitfoward you 
 race but you also ram people ALOT
  replays so you can save your cool moment right wrong you only save 30 secs another point off
 
  
  last point it repetive but wait i said it was good repitive untill 20 hours of the same thing 
 
  
  theres crash mode where you explode stuff and then you um explode stuff
  
  buy it if you dont have current gen burnout if you do stick with that this isnt much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEM0NCHIEF
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay- A GREAT sense of speed (++)
  A total of 169 challenges (+)
  Breathtaking moments of exhileration and sheer terror (++)
  Sometimes it seems the game "makes 
 you crash" (-- )
  - When you drift into a wall like u have done before u may crash
  
  Graphics- The Sparks and explosions look incredible (++)
  The Cars shred into thousands of pieces 
 when takendown (+)
  Speed blur when going really fast (+)
  May not be as polished as a game developed for the 360 ( -- )
  
  Sound- OMG !!!! WAS THAT A JET 
 ENGINE !!! (+++)
  Soundtrack is not for everybody (-- )
  Engines sound amazing (+)
  
  Value- A total of 169 challenges (+)
  "Lag-Tastic" Multiplayer ( -----)
  Lack of a "Recreation" 
 Mode ( -- )
  1000 achievement points (+)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wood2410
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  burnout revenge is a fast paced game full of winding roads and immense traffic. when playing this 
 game you get a real rush of speed which EA have once again been able to produce. the fast paced 
 racing really keeps you on the edge of your seat while your winding in and out of that hectic traffic. 
 the gameplay is incredible, you wont get bored within an hour and youll want to keep playing for 
 endless hours due to an adrenalin rush. the gameslength is very long, one of the longest ive seen 
 for a racer other than gran turismo 4. hopefully well see more games like this from EA in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBrazilManXx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I have never played such an intense racing game in my life! This game really got me amazed. If 
 you're asking yourself about renting it or buying it, it's definitely a game worth buying. It will 
 have you working on it for quite a long time and the achievements are tricky ones to get. The crashing 
 physics are really well done and the graphics are stunning. All of the racing tracks are big and 
 have a lot of obstacles for you to knock your opponents into. The new revenge gameplay remembers 
 previous opponents that took you down so you can get them back in another race.
  
  I truly love this game and I will be playing it a lot. Online never gets old as you will always 
 have someone to take down. This game should also have you playing it for a long time. I guarantee 
 this game to be as fun as it can get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzybunny566
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Damn, do I love this game! Burnout Revenge is a very addictive game that you just don't want to 
 put down. The inclusion of 3 different medals for finishing each event and the crash scores makes 
 you desire to replay races and events for a higher score. I often tell myself, "just one more race," 
 but it takes me about 10 races to actually do that.
  
  I really enjoy the high speed racing in the game, and this is one of the few games where I don't 
 mind the "slingshot" effect, especially if you crash once or twice at a really bad time, you can 
 get right back into the race. The cars have excellent handling, and the controls are very easy 
 to learn. They respond well and it's fairly simple to learn how to maneuver opposing cars to crash 
 and be taken out.
  
  The graphics in Revenge are just amazing. You really do get the sense of high speed when you use 
 the boost bar, and the tracks and scenery just look great. The cars are also done very well, and 
 the damage models also look great. The only complaint I have is when you're boosting sometimes 
 you can't differentiate a shortcut from a wall and you crash. That's easy to fix with quicker reaction 
 time, though.
  
  The included EA Trax are very fitting for this game, and help set a great racing mood. The cars 
 also sound great, and the "VROOOM" sound when you boost helps increase the sense of speed.
  
  As you know, there are TONS of events and courses in this game, and though some people might 
 complain because the same course is used a few times, I actually like that. Even in games like 
 Need For Speed Underground, I like running courses I've already seen because you are already used 
 to them. You know the shortcuts, the best lines to race, and when that damn building comes up so 
 you don't smack into it.
  
  Overall, I rate Burnout Revenge VERY high, as it is a beautiful looking and sounding game with 
 lots of replay value, and I found it worth trading in my PS2 version for the Xbox 360 edition. 
 It's not that difficult of a game once you get used to it, you'll find that usually races are sometimes 
 decided more by luck than simply skill. This is one of those few games where you want to keep playing 
 and playing until you get 100%, even if you have to repeat the same events a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornhusker_Fan9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  People who love wrecking cars and racing cars will enjoy this game. The graphics are awesome, the 
 damage is very realistic, and the car explosions are great. My favorite thing about this game is 
 the event (forgot the name of it) where you drive into a big intersection and cause a big pile-up. 
 You will find that event in the World Tour. The World Tour is a very fun little career mode. You 
 travel all across the world doing many differnt types of racing and crashing and earning new vehicles 
 to drive. Overall this game is a must have and I strongly suggest you get this game, it is only 
 $40.00 and it is worth $60.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  The Burnout series is known for its extremely fast moving and intense racing. Burnout Revenge, 
 the fourth console installment, continues the same formula from the previous award winning game 
 and expands on it. This now provides an even faster game with more features to add to the mix. 
 Sounds fun doesn't it? Well, it isn't. This time around you are left with a less than satisfying 
 taste. To top it off, you are provided with a "been there, done that" sort of feeling.
  
  I have not played the PS2 or Xbox version so I came into the 360 version of Burnout Revenge (which 
 is supposed to be the best one) with a fresh slate and have heard nothing but good things about 
 it. Well, what I found was nothing but bad things. 
  
  The gameplay is sub-par. The fast racing is, well... too fast. In fact, it is so fast that you 
 can barely see what is going on. When you have the gas floored to the ground and nitrous at full 
 blast (which is in fact the way it is intended for it to be played) , you really don't know what 
 is going on. A car will pop out of nowhere and hit you head on, or you'll come into a turn and 
 hit some sort of pillar. Burnout Revenge is just way too fast. It's not my eyesight that is off 
 since I have 20/20 vision and have had no problem with games before, so the problem must lay within 
 the game itself. You just want to tell the game, "Whoah there Burnout Revenge, take it easy... 
 slow it down a bit, it'll all be better in the morning." But, it isn't better in the morning. Still 
 if you awake and play this game in the morning, guess what you will find? It still blows.
  
  The graphics in this game are just OK. They aren't good, but they aren't bad. They are just 
 decent. Decent car models, decent environments... which adds up to a less than decent game. The 
 framerate manages to stay steady and I haven't experienced any slowdown that I can think of, so 
 that is a plus for a game like this.
  
  The sound is what you would expect from a racing game. It has an engine that sounds like an engine 
 and a nitrous noise that I suppose, sounds like nitrous noise. What this game does have is plenty 
 of licensed music which some may find enjoyable. It wasn't too great in my opinion, but if you 
 aren't that sort of music, it is here and there sure is plenty of it.
  
  In Burnout Revenge you will find plenty to do and plenty to unlock. However, it feels more like 
 a chore than anything else. What really is the point of having plenty to do when you aren't doing 
 anything fun? The answer is there is no point, and ironically there is no point for you to purchase 
 this game. I wouldn't even consider this for a rent. This is the game that everyone has been raving 
 about? Well, what it really is, is a highly overrated racer that tries too much and fails at it 
 miserably. Street racing should give you the feel of having an adrenaline rush, and for Burnout 
 Revenge to do that, it just needed to take a step back and tone it down a bit. Burnout Revenge 
 makes for a too over the top experience that gamers and racing fans alike, should ignore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I was addicted to Burnout 3: The Takedown on the original xbox. Everyone in my family loved it 
 and it even got great ratings here on Gamespot. Then Burnout Revenge was released for xbox but 
 by then i had sold my xbox to save money for the next gen 360.
  
  I was so dissapointed to find that the original Revenge wasnt backwards compatible, but was soon 
 reassured that they were creating a next gen version
  of the masterpiece. 
  
  This game is even more fun than its prequel. The new traffic checking mode makes it all the more 
 intense and gives you opportunities to take down enemies from a distance. The car models are beautifully 
 rendered and the maps look very realistic. World tour is roughly the same thing, however, the new 
 ranking mode in single player gives it more excitement. 
  
  In multiplayer, it is very fun becasue you can do anything. You can race, have party crash mode, 
 road rages, and all that fun stuff, all while talking to your friends! 
  
  This game is an awesome sequel an is a must have for fans of previous Burnout titles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkVendetta
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I think it's overdone. Not enough defining characteristics in this game to discern it from the 
 xbox version. Could have done with vast imp in racing including better new edgier game modes rather 
 than the same crap which I personally find too simple too enjoy. Chalk the great graphics up to 
 the 360 but I cant help but feel as though im watching the same crash over and over again in Hi-Def. 
 Truly this game is based more on luck than seizing genuine opportunities as they appear. Bottom 
 line, if u bought the xbox version and youre looking for something new with this release, save 
 yourself a trip. Otherwisego nuts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Revenge is a fantastic arcade racer, that is more of a refined racer than a groundbreaking one, 
 but I think it is still good fun for racer and non-racer fans alike. 
  
  Graphics: I think the word for Revenge's graphics is servicable. It doen't really feel all that 
 next gen, and for some reason even has some framerate issues. Still, the car models and environments 
 look decent, but still suffers from the launch title xbox 1.5 like graphics that many other early 
 games suffered from.
  
  Gameplay: Likely what you'll buy the game for, the game is fast and unrelenting. I am actually 
 not a racer fan and so after awhile it all started to feel a bit repetitve, but that fact that 
 it kept my attention at all should be a real testament to this game.
  
  Sound: Fantastic. Seriously, the first time hear one of those nuclear bomb like explosions is a 
 great feeling, and it takes a good while before it gets old.
  
  Replayability: Like I said, it gets a bit old. Thankfully, all the new online stuff will keep you 
 racing on live for awhile.
  
  Overall: I really did like this game, but sometimes it feels a bit repetitive and dare I say even 
 a little tedious. Still, the best racer for the 360 gameplay and sound wise, and somewhere in the 
 middle graphically. However, there really isn't a whole lot of competition, so that's not saying 
 all that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Thank god i only rented this game. I played the demo and hated it but it got really good reviews 
 so i gave it a shot. I just dont like arcadey racers. This game does offer a few good laughs. Crashing 
 and watching car explode into pieces almost makes it worth it. The gaphics are pretty much par 
 for a 360 racer but the buildings look a little **** THe cars look really good when they crash. 
 The sound is really good but the music absolutley sucks. The single player has an enormous amount 
 of value and the online play is ok. I really dislike this game its way too arcadey and the only 
 challenge is getting others to crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favorite racing game, awesome races and awesome online gaming.
  
  The single player is really cool, all these achievements are easy to get and fun. The Signature 
 moves are hard to find and it takes a while to get it. Other than that, the replay thing is awesome, 
 changing the camera angles. 
  
  The Muliplayer is awesome, i love the new rival settings in the game and the burnout clip thing 
 too. I don't even have the achievement for the Burnout Clips, but i'm trying.
  
  The Achievements aren't hard to get, but the online ones are. Takes me a long time to get the 50 
 takedowns achievement. The ones i don't have yet is the burnout clip and 100 takedowns on one person. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry-boy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Well lets start with the ide.. car crashes.. how cool is that.. :D
  The single player offline is balanced.. that u learn all the curses, shortcuts and stuff.. before 
 u go online.. but u can just go play online without playing the single player mode.. 
  Archievement.. the points in this game is kinda hard.. at least some of them.. like the celebrity 
 status.. u have to save a clip and upload online then make it to top20.. thats kinda hard.. I think 
 the could done it better.. 
  
  The sound is the game is better than the graphic.. the in game soundtrack is good as well.. and 
 the its definitely worth the money to buy it... so if u like the ide about the game.. and havent 
 tryout burnout yet.. I suggest u go and buy this game.. u wont regret..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbzaczek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game captures the same smash and crash feeling as its predicessors with a few modified and 
 updated tweaks. First off we are faced once again with the total destruction and mayhem in races, 
 crash events, burnout laps and the norm, however, a new Eliminator event type which is now based 
 on time instead of laps which shortens the time spent on the events and lessens the repitition 
 of laps. HOWEVER, this game was deffinatly not as good as it could have been, a wider variety of 
 tracks was desperatly needed, especially when comming torwards the end of the game because there 
 was an inspireing feeling of "Been there, done that" which made the game somewhat boring at points. 
 Overall however, this is a fantastic game with slight imporvements over Burnout 3, although this 
 game could have been one of the best racing games of this console era if more dedication was taken 
 in the building/classification/types of cars presented during this game, more tracks were added 
 (or a system like that of PGR3 was created with a whole board to choose maps from) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge was first released for the Xbox ans PS2 in September 2005. More recently and with 
 a few added features, better graphics and online downloadable content, Burnout Revenge made its 
 way onto the Xbox 360.
  
  Following the success of Burnout 3 Takedown (my first Burnout experience, which I thoroughly enjoyed 
 particularly for the crashing missions) , Burnout Revenge is the perfect way to get back at those 
 traffic jams that have made you waste hours of your life.
  
  The major difference to the game compared to previous titles is that now you can also score points 
 by taking out regular traffic along with your oponents. This alone inspired a brand new game mode 
 called Traffic Attack, where you hit as much vehicles as possible without taking damage, but only 
 those going in the same direction you are, and no large vehicles (such as buses and trucks) .
  
  Another new feature is the Revenge Meter. When you take down an opponent (or vice-versa) , the 
 one you hit is marked as your rival. The Revenge Meter encourages payback and it works especially 
 well online for competitiveness. You can even use Crashbreakers in single-player races to explode 
 in your oponent's face and take them out right there.
  
  The Race mode has been "revamped" to add new locations and courses, each with shortcuts and alternate 
 routes to be found. You can now race on four tracks in the U. S. A., two in Japan and two more in 
 Europe. They also offer plenty of obstacles (ramps, pillars and more) that can be either your friend 
 or your enemy, depending on your driving skill.
  
  Some changes have been made to Crash mode as well. There are no longer multipliers or crash bonuses. 
 You have a golf swing type of meter which you try to get the most out of to get the best start 
 possible. You then have to hit as many vehicles as possible before your Crashbreaker reaches 100%, 
 and once it does, it will start going down and you have five seconds to tap the hell out of the 
 right trigger to get it back up. Because the higher the percentage, the bigger the Crashbreaker 
 explosion.
  
  Road Rage has also been through a mini-makeover, giving you only one minute to take down as many 
 groups of cars as you can, giving you extended bonus time for a certain amount of cars. Road Rage 
 is particularly interesting online, where it puts two teams against each other either trying to 
 survive by running away or to take down their oponents.
  
  Another added feature lets you record full races and create small video clips, so you can show 
 off the paths of destruction you create to your friends.
  
  Graphically, the game is impressive. The cars get ripped into a million little pieces and show 
 a lot more physical damage than before. But how they manage to keep a shiny coat after all the 
 crashing is beyond me. The sceneries could probably be compared to those of PGR3, with a good variety 
 of landscapes (ranging from mountain roads to countryside views and industrial areas) and a lot 
 of attention put into details.
  
  In sum, Burnout Revenge for the 360 is a tuned-up version of its former self, with better graphics, 
 improved AI, a few extra gameplay options and plenty of Xbox Live Achievements to add to your gamer 
 score.
  
  However, if you already have Burnout Revenge for either PS2 or Xbox, there isn't much in the Xbox 
 360 version to make you go out and purchase it right away. For those who don't own it yet, then 
 it's worth buying.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=burnoutrevenge
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Look i think this gane is like a rental if even that i played it for about 45 minutes and i was 
 done with it. Its no better then the ones for the original xbox except for the graphics. They shouls 
 have done something to try and improve on the game play but its exactly the same how can i still 
 be intersted. I bought 1 and 2 i thought 1 was amazing and two was just as good although not as 
 fun as the first one because it was repetitive and now all they did again is shine up the graphics. 
 I think that it is a great game for whoever didn t play and beat the first one butfor the ones 
 that loved the first one and the second one i think that this is a let down. All they are doing 
 is shinning up the graphics. Everyone cuts up fullauto and i still have a blast playing it and 
 ive had it for over a month and BO i rented and i played it the first day and thats it I am kinda 
 disappointed i thought there might be something new and no i dont think this game is an 8 its a 
 low to middle 7 because as i said the gameplay is the same on all three and im kinda bord of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jt222_us
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  After reading great reviews for Burnout Revenge, I was a little disappointed after I purchased 
 the game. The goals and stars that it gives you to progress through the game are confusing and 
 make no sense. They tell you that you had a great performance and give you a certain amount of 
 stars and then it goes to the next screen to show your progress and it's another different amount 
 of stars. The gameplay is ok except that it gets repetitive. The whole "control your direction 
 after you explode" feature is kind of annoying and doesn't have that much of an effect. If you 
 are a fan of arcade style racing games, then this game should satisfy you. But if you only want 
 to get racing games that are above and beyond the rest, I would wait till something better comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Nothing can get you pumped up more than cool cars at fast speed and crashing them into other cars. 
 As simple as this game is, its what drives the game to the greatness that it is.
  
  Gamplay - the actually game play is the same. What they added was great HD graphics, new revenge 
 mode (when someone takes you down they are marked... for REVENGE!) . The new levels are put into 
 major emphasis in the game with great quality. Debris up the ying yang in this game. My only punch 
 to the game is that it is too dark. More light would be nice to the game. A lot of the levels are 
 back allies traffic jammed cities, stuff like that.
  
  Online - Xbox live does it again. The sever seems to be running fine all the time and there is 
 always someone to play with. You can now share cool 30 clips with anyone you want. Get in the top 
 20 and get a couple achievement points.
  
  Replay value - 100% replay value. No were can I see someone buying this game and just setting it 
 aside after the perfection of the game (which will take some time) . Its just too fun
  
  Overall this game is a buy for those who got change in there pockets. Those of us with budgets.... rent 
 of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trekkerguy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Well im certainly glad I picked up this little gem. A long time ago in a Gaming generation far 
 far away... ok anyways.
  Back last year when Burnout Revenge came out on the current gen consoles it was the greatest thing. 
 I loved the game but since I had recently sold my Xbox I had only played it at a friends on his 
 PS2 (which BTW are crap) and was worried that if I got it now on 360 I would be bored with it in 
 five minutes. Well this is testement to the XBL Market Place and free downloadable demos ACTUALY 
 producing results. I went ahead and downloaded the free demo and tried it out. I was amazed at 
 how addictively fun it was and how much better the graphics were on 360. I went down and bought 
 it that day and since (two days ago) I have been hooked. Unlike the boring PGR3 Solo career with 
 huge amounts of annoying challanges and very little actual racing, this "World Tour" is actualy 
 alot of fun and usualy involves somesort of racing and always lots of destruction. very fun. And 
 better yet! It's on XBL! Playing these destructive and plain fun races with the folks online has 
 been a great experience and I urge anyone who doesn't have this game to buy it and join us, and 
 if you do own it but havn't played in a while, please comeback! I give Burnout Revenge a 9.5 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I was playing burnout the other day when my friend was watching, a friend who isnt too into games, 
 and said something that made me question the integrity of this series. After watching me complete 
 several events in a row, he turned, opened his mouth, and said, "this game looks fun". Now, I know 
 what most people are saying right now, most games are, and yes I agree, but its the few games that 
 intice another to say such things. I mean, how often does someone say that the sky is blue? 
  
  Anyone who has played the burnout series before knows what to expect with this rendition. What 
 makes this the best burnout yet is three things: HD graphics, additional cars/events, and the elimination 
 of the swinging start-up system that previous revenge's had. I won't go into too much detail regarding 
 the 'improvements', you can check the gamespot review for that, but what I will say is that at 
 the end of the day, when my 360 is shut off and I'm dozing off to sleep, my final thoughts are 
 still of girls but my burnout experience doesn't trail that far off behind, and trust me, thats 
 saying something. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1023c
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great titile for the X360 if you like arcade style racing. There are so many things to 
 unlock in this game. It does seem a bit easy to play though. HD ia a must for this game. The graphix 
 are amazing with HD. With out it the graphix are pretty much the same on XBOX or PS2. Crash mode 
 and traffic attack are extremely addicting. Overall a great game for new comers to the Burnout 
 series. Great cars make this game even more fun, and beautiful crash modeling just top it off. 
 Sometimes you feel like your car has 3 radiators and 3 inch thick steel body frames because no 
 matter how many cars crash into, your car never seems to act slower, or messed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Tacular
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Burnout revenge takes the cake as far as I'm concerned about racing games. It's gameplay is extremely 
 competitive due to the takedowns. And is by far the fastest racing experience I have ever had: 
 when you're racing online with 5 other people and you do a boost jump boosting your speed around 
 70 mph faster than you should be able to go, you'll know what I'm talking about.
  
  But even if you don't boost jump, just going 209 on some of the coarses will blow your mind away.
 
  
  But enough of the speed factor...
  
  The single player is very long, and to make things worse once you think you're nearing the end, 
 another level is unlocked packed with even more events to be won. And the computers can get easily 
 anoying. 
  
  The multiplayer is where it's at in this game, if you have xbox live, and enjoy racing games, play 
 this! I especially got addicted to it when my rank got to around 92nd in the world.
  
  I recommend that you buy this game if you love the other burnout's. If you've never played a burnout 
 before, go rent this, it's not like other racing games, theres nothing realistic about it, other 
 than that cars do drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  A fun and addicting racing game.
  
  Gameplay- Awsome, filled with laughter of how f***ed up you can get you car in a crash. xbox live 
 is great.
  
  Graphics- amazing on the 360 well the xbox graphics are alright but 360 is where its at.
  
 
  sound- really cool it supports custom soundtrack and the crash sounds ROCK.
  
  Value- this is its downfall burnout revenge for 360 is $60. the xbox one is like half that. if 
 you have a 360 which if u dont (SHAME ON YOU) just kidding but if you dont have one u dont have 
 much choice but if you do GET IT FOR 360 NO QUESTION ABOUT IT.
  
  final thoughts- a month ago when i reviewed burnout 3 i said it was the best racing game i take 
 that back. BURNOUT REVENGE IS THE BEST RACING GAME BAR NONE......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath-117
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This is Burnout Revenge. The fourth destructive, debris-ravaged road racing game. You go around 
 doing the World Tour, which has you doing different Events, like Road Rage, Races, Traffic Attack, 
 and my personal favorite, Crash!!! It does have a decent replayibilit, with an earning rate system 
 which ranks you up on how you do based on the scenario. 
  But one part of the game is extremly frustrating. One example is the imcorperations of secret passages. 
 If you didn't want to take one, or didn't see it, you'll smash and get crashed and end up in bits 
 and pieces. In a tight match at high speed, you'll throw your contoller down in frustration on 
 barely hitting a wall and go sailing across. But the Aftertouch is always a nice youch, being able 
 to torch your rivals after a blow.
  But the major point of the game is the rewarding online play. You can record your favorite exploding 
 bananzas with a recorder and show them off on Xbox Live. You can also got online and challenge 
 other players, which is where you get most of your acheivement points. If your a new-comer, welcome 
 to Burnout Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperHalo360man
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge rules!!! The graphices are awesome i mean the background and everything. The smashing 
 and bashing rules, if you like cars blowing up you will love this game. The damage effects rule 
 as in the paint falls off, it really looks like a beat up car. The gameplay is awesome, and finally 
 you don't lose from traffic you beat them up in the new event were you take down traffic. That 
 Striker guy in Burnout 3 is finally gone, no more interrupsions when you are listening to your 
 awsome selection of songs. The songs really make the game really good, I mean the songs suit the 
 game. The jumps are so awsome and large, you go so high up in the air, it rules. Besides the traffic 
 event, the other events are more improved. The courses are great choices to bash each other a part 
 in. This game is not hard at all and once you know how to do it you can't stop playing it. The 
 cars are so much better then Burnout 3, I mean they are cool and tough looking too. The cars are 
 ready to get destroyed. This game rules and it is not that much money after it's price drop and 
 now is $40.00, so what are you waiting for get off the computer and go play it for all you Burnout 
 fans out  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Insanly fast-paced, there are 78 cars, 76 you have to unlock. Plenty of ranks on world 
 tour, it makes the game get a bit more difficult. Large music selection, I think there are 41 or 
 44 songs already on the game. High-speed crashes & on Xbox Live it automatically rivals you with 
 anyone who takes you out, or the other way around, even if he is on your team. There are planty 
 of differant games type online, or offline. The game is really fun in general...
  
  The Bad: The graphics are average... & the game is really unrealistic (if it was realistic, it 
 would be the hardest game I've ever played) . The load time are frustrating, there not very long 
 but there very often. Time trials seem to be alot harder then anything else in the game for no 
 real reason.
  
  Note: One thing personally I dident like, but I also do like, is that it's so fast, that when your 
 on the new track you'll crash into strange places, when you only got 2 seconds to choose, you'' 
 sometimes have trouble telling roads from walls. But otherwise I had alot of fun with this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanssj7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the best racing game i'he played so far. And with X360 it gets even more playble. the awsome 
 graphics with excellent songs makes it the best.
  
  THE GOOD: this game provides a real deal of excitment and fun to a game freek. Everything is just 
 awsome in this game.
  Also the boost is best. If u move in the wrong lane ( oncoming traffic) ur boost will increase. 
 Also the boost lasts pretty long. GR8.....
  
  THE BAD: It will be somewhat dissappointing for those who have already played it on PS2. There 
 are very few new TRACKS in this version. 
  
  The AI is also the best. Its preety hard 2 take takedowns in this 360 version. The AI also uses 
 good & colourful cars not like magenta for all AI cars in PS2. The races are even more difficult 
 bur a lot more exiting when played on HDTV. But overall its a lot better version of its predecessor 
 on PS2.
  
  so play 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the 360 is a bright shiney pile of fun, but if you have burnout revenge for 
 another system, don't bother, their is not enough extras to warrent the purchase, and the graphics 
 are only a little bit better. Burnout Revenge is overall a good game, with a solid frame rate, 
 good graphics and great gameplay, with sound effects that punch, though the soundtrack is grating. 
 Beware thought, the end is very difficult, and will make you want to chuck the controller across 
 the room. The cars are one of the ebst aspect of Burnout, as they should be, they look as powerful 
 as they play, and the controls by the way are great, and handle almost perfectly. Over all an awsome 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: good online-mode as always, amazing graphics everything from the car effects and the 
 car models and the enviroments and just still everything has not be a whole alot better than the 
 ps2, xbox versions of the game but still better. you can save your replay on your xbox 360 hard 
 drive and then share it online. but i believe it was 30 seconds of gameplay that you could record 
 as a replay sortha thing. and there is just a ton of good stuff to say about this game. plus that 
 you can download downloadable cars exclusive for the xbox 360 and that's a bonus good thing. the 
 soundtrack and the sound effects is all good as always, and the game has even better and more high-res 
 graphics when you playing it in HD plus with 5.1 surround sound then you get the ultimate sounding 
 and artwork (graphics)
  
  The Bad: it's a absolut port with everything the same but the graphics has been better and the 
 sound too. but there is no problems with this game, and if it is then it's just a little problem 
 that i even not care about.
  
  this is a port of last years hit and it's a really fun ride and it's worth playing on the xbox 
 360 with the sound which sounds completely different than the ps2, xbox versions and more high-res 
 graphics make it a worth checking out on xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is one of the "Greats"! It should be showing up on everyone's best of list this year (if it 
 weren't for the fact that it was on most of the XBox Best Of lists) . The graphics are stunning 
 (much better than XBox) , the gameplay is awesome, and the immersion into the game is insane.
  
  Now that Burnout Revenge is out on the XBox 360, I think that I can safely say that it is one 
 of the best looking games so far. This game is rock solid. The only issues I have is that sometimes 
 on certain turns or shortcuts, I fall off the screen. The laws of physics no longer apply and I 
 am suddenly flying. That should have been caught, especially since the same thing happened more 
 frequently on the XBox version. Too fast on the release? 
  
  The gameplay is tight. The controls are solid and make the game incredibly fun. Some driving games 
 don't have that. This does.
  
  The ability of the game to get my heart racing for fear of crashing is unbelievable. They have 
 completely mastered the ability to feel that you're going 200+ mph. It scares me. 
  
  The other great thing about this game is the addition of the traffic check. The ability to ram 
 all the cars from behind and use them as weapons.... genius. They must have listened after Burnout 
 3. 
  
  In crash mode, I really like the potential for multiple crashbreakers. That's just plain fun. 
 
  
  Why should you buy this game if you already had the Xbox version? It adds enough new content (although 
 it may be hard to tell) , and the ability for an even more robust XBox Live experience that I think 
 everyone would think it's worth the purchase again. My only complaint is that it is very challenging 
 to get many of the achievments in the game. That makes it even better when you do though.
  
  This is one of the best games ever. Buy it! Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scionwolf321
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game I thought "Wow". Seeing the new Burnout was awsome. Being able to race 
 agaents CPU with those graphics. I thought I was really in the drivers seat racing. I was literally 
 at the eadge of my seat. Also playing this on live I could only say one thing. "BOOM" Being able 
 to blow up your rivals in slow motion was beautiful. After blowing up other palyers I dicided to 
 take on missions. And by missions I mean blowing @#&* UP!!!!!!!!!! So for a compleat score of 10 
 out of 10 this game is worth it to play.
  
  Watch out or you go boom ~scionwolf321~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Burnout is hands down the best racing game the Xbox 360 has to offer, and thats saying something 
 with the other great racers on 360 that are in the mix. Its fast, fun, and well worth the money. 
 How can port be so good you ask? Well let me ask you this, If they ported Halo 2 over to 360 with 
 better graphics and some bonus extras would you try to tell me Halo 2 wasnt the best FPS on the 
 system??? (Halo 2 is still the best FPS on the system with just being backwards compatible.) Burnout 
 is a fast arcade style racer with silky smooth graphics and killer gameplay.
  The GRAPHICS of Burnout are spectacular. They may not be as shinny as Full Auto or G. R. A. W., but 
 they are close. The graphics are smooth even when you are drive with your turbo boost maxed out. 
 When you crash, you will see individual pieces of your car and other cars flying in every direction, 
 which looks awesome. Another great point about the graphics is that you wont see many jagged edges 
 around the cars like you see in PGR 3. That is definitely a nice move, which helps make Burnout 
 one of the best looking 360 games.
  The SOUND of Burnout is overall pretty nice. The actual car noises sound great in surround sound 
 and really make you feel like you are there. The soundtrack is mediocre, but just turn on a custom 
 sound track and your ready to roll with some sweet tunes of you own.
  The VALUE of this game is tough to determine. The game has tons of replay value and great graphics. 
 The only problem with the value is its already been out a long time on other system and its cheaper 
 for those systems. If you havent played it yet, buy it for 360. Its worth the extra money because 
 they have added some stuff and the graphics are sweet.
  This game is definitely awesome and worth the price if you havent played it before. Even if you 
 have played it, you should still try it out and possibly buy it again. There are a lot of good 
 racers on the 360 and this one is the best. If that doesnt tell you this game is good, then I 
 dont know what does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 6
Date: May 24, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  The graphics are 'neat' but the game lacks so much.... GAME! this really should only be a 'side 
 game' in a much more emmence game. Although they label this game revolutionary we all know these 
 graphics could have been achieve on the xbox itself. Now don't get me wrong I love agreat car crash 
 just as much as the next person, but give it a really long and hard thought.. a look if you may 
 and notice all the same detail that is there merely for some fleeting seconds, the actual draw 
 distances are quiet low.
  I do think this game should off some good muscle in the way of multiple paricles with real physics 
 all working in wha would seem to be the most realistic crashing simulator out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  If I were to pick between Full Auto and This, i would pick this. This game has a lot of good things 
 and a few not so good things. I'll start with the good. This game has awesome game play, many different 
 types of races and stuff like that and quite a few tracks to choose from. It also has the best 
 sound tack too. The sound affects on this game are also awesome, when you use the crashbreaker 
 it sounds like a bomb went off in the room, and when you use the boost it sounds like a jet is 
 taking off beside you. (If you have surround sound.) Their is only one thing I can think of that 
 the developers could have done better with and that is the graphics of the vehicles. The enviroment 
 graphics are great it's the vehicle graphics that arn't so great. They don't unleash all the power 
 the 360 has. 
  
  Over all this is a great game, i would recommend it to anyone who is new to the series and even 
 people who arn't, although the gameplay is almost the same as the Burnout 3 it does have a couple 
 new racing modes. It's a great game and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louthar
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 22, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is another one of those games that is just plain better on Multiplayer over XBOX 
 Live than the single player game. Now don't get me wrong, the single player version of the game 
 is great, and the added feature to the series of "Traffic Check" is just downright cool. But again, 
 as in the previous game, online is the place where Burnout Revenge shines.
  
  If someone takes you out online, they instantly become a revenge rival. Even if you are on the 
 same side and someone "mistakenly" takes a team mate out, they will be tracked as a rival. The 
 game makes you want to get revenge on that person for taking you down, no matter what. And its 
 a great new feature.
  
  Somthing i felt was missing from the previous title in the series was multiple paths. What i mean 
 is that there are now multiple paths to get to the same end. There are shortcuts in road, rage, 
 burning lap and all of the race modes, and there are now even multiple paths in the crash mode. 
 
  
  Gameplay is top notch no matter what mode you are in. The graphics are slick. Sometimes to slick. 
 
  
  With all of this going for it, this game just doesn't feel like a "Next gen game for a Next Gen 
 console". In fact it looks like what it is, a spiffied up version of its XBOX 1 cousin.
  
  Don't let that distract you though, Burnout Revenge is a great game and I believe is a must have 
 for XBOX 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaseyJamesOwns
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This was a good game over-all. Not much different from the original xbox version. The graphics 
 were a little bit better, but other than that the game was virtually the same. Still a great game. 
 The crashes, the sounds, everything about it was perfect. I was a huge fan of the original one, 
 and this one is just as good. Online play is nice and smooth, the other game types are a nice change 
 as well. It's a good game that is a buy for some, and a rental for others if they have played it 
 before. Overall I enjoyed this game, I put it down in frustration a few times, but picked it back 
 up, a great thing about it is the sense of speed you get from it while driving. This game is just 
 plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaos
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 20, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Firstly i would like to tell you that it is cool game. Graphics is medium. But it`s not truble. 
 Gameplay is real rulezz. Rivals are real hard! 
  Music... Music is like in Burnout Legends - it`s Burnout on PSP. There we can find Rock Punk and 
 other styles. Undrestand?? 
  The best arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best 
 arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best arcade 
 has returned! 
  What can I add... Just go and buy this game!! That`s all
  Firstly i would like to tell you that it is cool game. Graphics is medium. But it`s not truble. 
 Gameplay is real rulezz. Rivals are real hard! 
  Music... Music is like in Burnout Legends - it`s Burnout on PSP. There we can find Rock Punk and 
 other styles. Undrestand?? 
  The best arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best 
 arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best arcade has returned! The best arcade 
 has returned! 
  What can I add... Just go and buy this game!! That`s all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 17, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game, i remember getting the 1st one for ps2 a while back and how 
 great I thought it was. This game is the same thing and looks just as bad. No next generation up 
 grades. WTf ~!!!!!!
  that gets me mad its basically the same xbox game with achievements and a $40 price increase. I 
 hate u EA !!!! I hate u with a passion.. at least this time they made the achievements hard to 
 get, but I dont care cause this game is the same xbox game with the achiement system up into it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  What more can be said about the Burnout Franchise? Since the day it came out I have been hooked! 
 This game just makes it even better!
  
  Graphics: 360! Need I say more? The graphics on this game are awesome! Beautiful car models with 
 even more beautiful explosions! SWEET!
  
  Gameplay: I love the car checking! Some say it makes it easier but I think it makes it more fun! 
 Solid racing as usual and tight controls! Solid solid solid!
  
  Audio: It's Burnout! It sounds great like always!
  
  Overall, this is a sweet game! 
  
 
  Don't Regret That This Is My Favourite Racing Game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 15, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the Burnout series before so I figured I would give this a try. And turns 
 out its a pretty darn good game. 
  
  Gameplay: There's a large variety of events to compete in - road rage, Burning Laps....... and of 
 course the Crash - where the goal is to blowup and destroy as much as possible. The difficulty 
 is just about right too, and the different race events keeps it interesting.
  
  Graphics: Well....... not up-to-par with others, like PGR3 for example. The race settings and background 
 look excellent but the actual car physics could look a little better in my opinion....... but still 
 pretty good
  
  Sound: A definite plus here - especially if you have a surround system (which is the case for any 
 game really) 
  
  Really the only downside is the camera view when racing - neither view is just right for me, but 
 it's not unbearable. Second, the traffic kinda shoots up a mile ahead like its weightless when 
 you crash it....... but overall it's a very good game if your new to Burnout series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 15, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the same game you played on PS2 and Xbox, but this time a lot more pretty. There 
 is added things even if they do not matter much. There are new crash junctions and when it time 
 to blow up the car a crowd will cheer "Blow it up, blow it up" and scream with joy when you do. 
 The car damage is nice and gives you a feeling that you are a rage driver. I have not gotten LIVE 
 yet but still love this game and I think once I get to play it online my feelings will not change 
 for this game. If you have a 360 and are into racing games, pick this up when you can. If you already 
 have this game on PS2 or Xbox save your money for a different game. If this is your first game 
 into the world of Burnout, you'll be happy you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex537
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The burnout revenge is one of the best games i ever played on Xbox360 cuz has good graphics and 
 good sounds. I recommend you this game it is awesome. Also i spent about four or six hour playing 
 this game on XBOX LIVE. 
  
  The burnout revenge is one of the best games i ever played on Xbox360 cuz has good graphics and 
 good sounds. I recommend you this game it is awesome. Also i spent about four or six hour playing 
 this game on XBOX LIVE. 
  
  The burnout revenge is one of the best games i ever played on Xbox360 cuz has good graphics and 
 good sounds. I recommend you this game it is awesome. Also i spent about four or six hour playing 
 this game on XBOX LIVE. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Burnout. It is one of the best racing games of all time. But Burnout 1 wasn't a gold game. (My 
 score for PS2 7.4) . Burnout 2 became better but still wasn't gold it was silver. (My score for 
 PS2 8.6) Burnout 3 shocked everyone (My score for PS2 9.5) . Takedown won many game awards including 
 the highly sought after Game of the Year. Then Burnout Revenge which kinda was dissapointing (My 
 score for PS2 9.0) it was also GOLD! Just like Burnout 3! Now let's get to my 3rd 360 review!
 
  
  Burnout Revenge's gameplay is bascially the same as Takedown! But is a huge improvent over Impact! 
 But if there was more to be done the gameplay would be perfect! The online play is great! It is 
 one of the few 360 online games I've played!
  
  The grahics are just mouthdrolpping some of the best on the 360. If you have a PS2, Xbox, or 360 
 get any version but if you're a graphic-bug get the 360 version.
  
  The sound is okay the music is good not alot to say except the crashes are so wonderful!
  
 
  This game is amazing! But the Burnout sereis is going down! EA this is just a warning. Crieton 
 (makers of BLACK) need to stick on racing games! I was a little dissapointed with this game! But 
 many Burnout sereis fans will be dissapointed with this game I was but Burnout REVENGE is still 
 a really fun 360 game maybe the funnest I'm off to buy G. R. A. W.!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trethony18
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just 
 owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you 
 need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This 
 game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns 
 all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need 
 to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This 
 game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns 
 all you need to know. This game just owns all you need to know. This game just owns all you need 
 to know. This game just owns all you need to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 12, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  You what what this game reminds of? It reminds me of my last driving test I took. What is the point 
 of driving cars while you are still trying to crash? Infact, I don't really think the graphics 
 even live up to the Xbox 360, and doesn't even amaze half of the audience. When I rented this game, 
 I felt like renting a broken version of the same piece of crap. Only hours of fun will be included 
 with this game, and you won't be surprise of a different in the story and the graphics. It fails 
 to amaze me.
  
  The story, well if the story was there, would have been interesting. But in reality, you are just 
 a stunt driver that you risk your life for a piece of bread and maybe a slice of butter. I do know 
 that there is no good story to add in it. Maybe, you don't even need a good story to tell your 
 selfish life about nothing.
  
  The graphics were anything like Oblivion. Now that I have seen E3, I really think that this game 
 sucks in comparison of Gears of War and other second launch games. The physics are just plain out 
 of the math, and I hate the way the crash system works on Takedown. But hey, who cares when there 
 is a game that I can play all day without a doubtful doubt about the game, Oblivion.
  
  Hey? What about that sound effects. Yeah, I say that is good and in very good detail, but still 
 fails to get my eyes pop and my ear drums break. Now when I heard Halo 3 music, I just wanteed 
 to cry and be happy. In comparison, Burnout Revenge made me even more sad and depress. The music 
 in the game was superb, but all they were was a couple losers singing songs about their past lives. 
 Ha, what weirdos...
  
  The gameplay is pretty much like thinking you are running into an invisible wall... I mean... a 
 lot of odd glitches in the game. Yeah, you might think that your Burnout Revenge is perfect and 
 all, but where I see it, it's like making play another round of Advent Rising if you know what 
 I mean. Crashes are somtimes just out of the wall and through a glass window weird. If fact, I 
 think it's just someone's sick mind devolping to a sicker containment room that is filled with 
 yellow white because they have been smoking some odd stuff.
  
  I ain't going to say much, but If you want, you can go to my profile and see the awesome blogs 
 I have for you.... But just rent this game, because this review was not revise proofread like the 
 others.... zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz\
  
  I will just go to sleep............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  What more can be said about the Burnout Franchise? Since the day it came out I have been hooked! 
 This game just makes it even better!
  
  Graphics: 360! Need I say more? The graphics on this game are awesome! Beautiful car models with 
 even more beautiful explosions! SWEET!
  
  Gameplay: I love the car checking! Some say it makes it easier but I think it makes it more fun! 
 Solid racing as usual and tight controls! Solid solid solid!
  
  Audio: It's Burnout! It sounds great like always!
  
  Overall, this is a sweet game! I didn't 
 play the xbox version so this is brand new to me and very very fun! Pick it up for sure if you 
 like racing and crashing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tha_King_Of_Ny
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Best racing game ever.
  Burnout Revenge is one of the best racing games ever. The gameplay and storyline i only have 4 
 words fun, long, and crazy. The graphics for this u already probably know i have a standard tv 
 and the graphics still look real. The sound is amazing it feels real and like loud. The Xbox live 
 is great u play versus ur friends or strangers and u can unlock achievements, If u have any other 
 version of the game u shouldnt get this one unless u feel like wasting 60 dollars more because 
 there not a lot new to see. If u dont have any version and u have a 360 and u gonna buy the game 
 u should get this version because is more realistic and a lot better (but not much) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is an intense racing game for the Xbox 360, emphasizing raw speed and impressive 
 wrecks over many of the subtle nuances seen in games such as Ridge Racer and Gran Tourismo. Players 
 don't really need to know a whole lot about cars to get into the game, which is certainly a plus 
 for people who want to just get in there and burn rubber without examining every single nook and 
 cranny of their car.
  
  At the heart of the game is one of the most impressive graphics engine to ever grace a racing game. 
 The cars and the backgrounds are all rendered in loving detail, and when a racer wrecks, the sight 
 of metal and plastic flying all over the place is a glorious one indeed. However, there are some 
 knocks to the graphics engine. Most notably, the frame rate will sometimes take a dip from its 
 usual 60fps. While it's certainly not often enough to ruin the game, it can jar players for a moment 
 before returning to normal. Also, when boosting, the environments become far shinier than they 
 need to be, making it nearly impossible to drive in certain parts of the tracks.
  
  There are a wealth of events to be played in the World Tour (single player) mode. From time trials 
 to races to zany pile ups, there's plenty to do in single player. However, there isn't really a 
 proper training mode, so players will simply have to learn a track on the job as opposed to studying 
 the track at a more leisurely pace. Which leads to one of the biggest complaints about the game. 
 As there's really no way to place people of like skill together, oftentimes new players are thrown 
 to the wolves and beaten senselessly by more experienced players. Those who persevere may become 
 respectable Burnout Revenge players, but many will be turned off by having their heads kicked in 
 every single time they log on. Once the newbie hazing is completed, however, Burnout Revenge is 
 quite fun to play. Most of the World Tour events are available online, though Road Rage has been 
 modified into a team sport in which the blue team must race to the finish without being taken out 
 by the red team. Fun stuff. If you've taken a racer down online (or if an online racer has taken 
 you down) , the game remembers the takedown and will remind you of it with an on-screen symbol and 
 a number denoting how many takedowns have happened in a row. Want to erase the takedowns someone 
 has scored on you? Simply take him down once, and the score will be settled, bringing you back 
 to neutral. It's a great way to keep track of who you've been playing with, and multiple online 
 takedowns will unlock some of the many achievement points available in the game.
  
  Audio is as impressive as the graphics. The boost sounds like a fighter jet shooting down the runway, 
 and every crash and skid is spot-on accurate. The music leans too heavily on poorly-sung, generic 
 butt-rock, but with a press of the big X in the center of the controller and some ripped tracks 
 on the hard drive (or an MP3 player hooked up to the system) , that problem is solved quite effectively.
 
  
  While the game delivers an amazing sense race in terms of speed, some things needed to be addressed. 
 The physics of checked traffic is definitely wonky. When you hit a small, same-way car, it'll bounce 
 around like a pinball for a while before vanishing. This ruins some of the immersion and can cause 
 problems for both you and other racers. Also, even heavy cars seem to be a bit easy to knock around. 
 Even if not knocked around, incidental contact followed by a crash can lead to someone being awarded 
 a takedown they didn't earn. Speaking of online, the EA servers are a mess. It's nearly impossible 
 for the sixth person (out of six possible people per game) to stay on when (s) he joins the first 
 time, leading to frustrating second and third attempts.
  
  Complaints aside, it's hard not to recommend Burnout Revenge to 360 owners looking for something 
 a bit different from Project Gotham 3. Looking past the few rough edges, it's a great game to get 
 hooked on. Now get crashing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandma1
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Burnout has been a great running series for a while now. Burnout 3: Takedown stole everybody's 
 hearts when it re-invented combat racing. Burnout: Revenge didn't have as much going for it, but 
 was still a good sequel.
  
  After 2 instant racing hits from Critieron in a row they had to do something special. Whala! You've 
 got Burnout your 360 now. They worked long and hard on the engine on this game, and you can tell, 
 because they delayed the release. It was orginally a launch title that would've set the Xbox 360 
 on fire, but with the delayed release they made a awesome new engine for the game.
  
  The graphics on this game are more amazing then ever, and really fit in with the gameplay. Every 
 explosion, takedown, and door looks beautiful. Features in the game: such as the crashbreaker and 
 the explosion payback, showoff the wonderful fire effects. Also you can constantly watch the amazing 
 graphics engine by recording little 30 second replays of yourself. You can then put these clips 
 on Xbox Live and bragg about them or laugh out loud about them. This feature is very fun and i 
 suggest everybody tries it (you also get Achivement points for this) . The graphics are good enough 
 to fit the already awesome Burnout: Revenge video game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same from the other Burnouts. You start a world tour going to cool 
 places like Tokyo and Detroit City. As you move along your rank increases giving you more cars 
 and races to finish. The game really picks up in difficulty in the end and becomes a hard game 
 to master. Through completing all of the 1 player challenges you will receive a smatter of Achievements 
 points, which I recommend, because it is fun, worthwhile, and very intese. The game doesn't stop 
 their though, because it uses the Xbox Live feature to take your skills online.
  
  In the Xbox Live mode they include the Revenge system which is new over the Xbox and PS2 versions. 
 Basically if someone takes you down, you will find yourself dashing back to first place to get 
 your Revenge, and vice versa if you took your opponnet down. This system is very fun and makes 
 it so intese that screaming into your mic is neccesary.
  
  All in all Burnout is and awesome game and any fan of racing should go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I played Burnout Revenge extensively on the Xbox when it was released last year. Now EA has re-released 
 their popular arcade racer for the Xbox 360. Theyve changed a few things, and added some new features, 
 but overall it remains the same game. Some of the new features you wont be able to take full advantage 
 of without a HD setup.
  
  GAME PLAY
  The game play is mostly the same from the original Xbox version, and thats a good thing. There 
 are a wide variety of races in several different locals. By winning races, and getting gold medals, 
 you can unlock new cars to use. Most of these cars are just more powerful versions of cars you 
 already have. The real prizes are the elite cars won by completing the challenge sheets for each 
 level.
  
  The controls are slick, and responsive. This allows you to control virtually every car the same, 
 but you will find minor control differences. By taking out other cars, and driving dangerously, 
 you will gain the ability to use a nitrous boost to blast by the other drivers. The levels are 
 well designed, and feature a ton of short cuts to make the racing that much more interesting. The 
 crash events are perhaps one of the best modes, and they got rid of that annoying boost meter 
 from the Xbox version. Now you always get the best possible start.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are well done, but you can tell its a port of an older game to the 360. The textures 
 are very detailed, and there are a lot of shiny reflective surfaces. But the polygon count is low 
 for the 360. The crashes do look better with some nice spark and smoke effects. The cars also shatter 
 much more realistically, and youll see even more parts fly off the cars. But like most 360 games, 
 you need an HDTV to take full advantage of graphics.
  
  SOUND
  Surprisingly, nearly everything about the sound was changed for the 360. New music tracks have 
 been added, and they fit the theme of the game very well. They also gave the sound effects a complete 
 overhaul. Even going so far as to change the sound effects that are used for everything from crashes 
 to medal rewards. Its all very refreshing, and sounds much better than on the Xbox.
  
  VALUE
  If you played the previous version on one of the current-gen systems, you wont find much 
 new here. There are some nice stats tracking in the online races, and you can even upload crash 
 replays to Xbox Live. There's also a ton of unlockables and achivements to do. But there are only 
 a couple new cars, and no new levels or race types. Some additional content would have been nice, 
 but the bottom line is that if you played this game before, you wont find much new.
  
  Burnout Revenge is a fantastic game, and any racing fan owes it to themselves to try it out. If 
 you played it before on another system, Id rent it first because there isnt a whole lot thats 
 new. But if you havent played Burnout before, this is the game to play. It does so much right, 
 thats easily one of the best arcade racers I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katamari_lover
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Good graphics, Good car damage, Fun, Good music, and Good controls.
  
  Cons: Could get frustrating some times, long load times, not enough tracks.
  
  Im just gonna 
 make a very short review for this game.
  Burnout revenge is a really awsome racing game. Cars blow up a lot. There are lots of things other 
 racing games don't have, but this game is still missing a few things. Like a map and more game 
 modes. I love this game. Don't bother renting this game (unless you really want to) because im 
 pretty sure you'll love it. If you'v never played a racing game before , this might be a great 
 game to start with. Thats my review of Burnout revenge for Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeafFreelancer
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 2, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and played it once I didn't think much of it But then I beat OBLIVION twice 
 and decided I wanted to race. I threw in Burnout and now i cant stop playing it. O wait i can XBOX 
 LIVE IS DOWN NOW!!!!!!! Well as soon as the get it back up I will be playing it. This game has 
 excellent Graphics and the online play is the reason I play. You can trash talk people and then 
 slam them into the wall. Revenge is Sweet. This game also has a pretty sweet soundtrack in my opinion. 
 Most of the songs I already know its just that they are remixes and I love it. The only NEGATIVE 
 thing about this game is that most of the achievements are earned online and the POINTS SYSTEM 
 is awkward. I win races and i go from 1259 to 5624 WTF?!?!?! Well all in all this game is a must 
 buy for anyone who likes racing games. So i Suggested you jump in your car and race to the store 
 to pick it up. Just Don't Check Traffic on the way to the store. LoL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdffdsaasdffds
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  8.8? This should be a 10000 this is the best racing game! I dont even like racing games and i liked 
 this game!!!! dsf sd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d ddd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d dd d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  First off, for those of you who have played the original Burnout Revenge on the Xbox, this is not 
 a total redesign or anything, more like a face lift with some minor changes here and there. But 
 since I wanted a Xbox 360, I decided to sell my other Xbox stuff and go with the 360 version of 
 this game. I'm not disappointed at all.
  
  The game is amazingly fast and arcade like. The graphics and sound are outstanding. The load times 
 could be a little quicker though, you'll find yourself waiting a little between games. The cut 
 scenes after you win a race or earn rewards is pretty cool, you can skip through them faster if 
 you'd like, but I enjoy the animation/graphics of most of them.
  
  This game is unique from most all other games b/c you feel like your driving fast, and when you 
 hit something, you actually take damage or crash. But the best part is, you can crash your opponents 
 cars.
  
  The online experience is awesome, especially compared to say, Project Gotham Racing 3. The multiplayer 
 is very fun b/c as your racing, your able to talk with ALL players and thus, able to taunt, kid 
 around, etc... In the online play, there are plenty of people online and games going so that you'll 
 never get bored or have to wait for folks to come online. 
  
  If your want to have a lot of fun, don't waste your time on Project Gotham Racing 3 or any other 
 racing game, get this one. It's like Fast & The Furious.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  I have a wonderful time playing this game. The sense of speed is great. The main thing that attracted 
 me to Burnout Revenge was the huge chunky "slow motion" explosions when a wreck happens but most 
 of all the applause when you wreck. Talk about positive motivation! When you play a crash race 
 and you have the chance to explode your car you hear people in the background saying "Blow it up!", 
 "Blow it up!", "Blow it up!", then BOOM and applause. If you are lucky enough to get a second chance 
 to blow your car up you will hear the same people saying "We want more!", "We want more!", "We 
 want more!" then BOOM and HUGE applause with yelling and shouts! Incredible! This really makes 
 you sit back with a grin from ear to ear.
  
  Burnout Revenge encompasses a few game modes. You can play single player and just Race "Instant 
 Action" or play Campaign then there is multi-player where you can Race and play Crash Mode. Race 
 has a few options such as placement race such as 1st, 2nd, 3rd and so on and demolition involving 
 crashing the other team before they get to the finish line. Crash Mode has a multitude of scenarios 
 where you will have to pick a vehicle and crash into as many cars as possible on many different 
 scenarios. Both are equally fun but when a few people get good at these you will never win but 
 it is still fun to play with other people online.
  
  The graphics are top notch especially the speed factor. There is a really nice feature when you 
 engage afterburner and hit max speed. The screen kind of zooms ahead giving you a sense that you 
 would be focusing on whats directly in front of you at a high speed and trust me I would know being 
 the owner of a Suzuki Hayabusa. Being able to power slide around turns and ram other cars off a 
 cliff is hugely satisfying. At times I found myself reloading a race just to see the camera angle 
 around my car at the start line. Some of the cars are very cool designs and look really great but 
 imagine being able to pick your color of choice before the race. Picking color is great!
  
  Handling is "par for the course" considering its an arcade racer not a simulation racer. If you 
 loved arcade racing you will be right at home here. If you want a sim racer check out PGR (Project 
 Gotham Racing) . I have noticed only minor handling differences between cars and mostly only at 
 very high speeds which is where you will spend most of your time. Part of the fun of handling the 
 cars are the extravagant jumps and "air time" you get during races. Your car can be steered while 
 in the air and this is more important during crash competitions than racing. But you do experience 
 some satisfying "air time" and most of the race tracks and of course there is the excellent "Verticle 
 Takedown Achievement".
  
  Achievements are a little too difficult to get and most of them you will stumble on by accident 
 instead of trying to actually achieve them. But given you will be playing this game for years it 
 made sense to put a lot of achievements in the game to last its life cycle.
  
  Overall Burnout Revenge is the main reason I fire up my Xbox and have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Great Fun high speed racing game 
  I am not normally a fan of the Burnout series but after playing this at a friends I immediately 
 bought it because I liked it that much. The Graphics are Brilliant but not as good as Need for 
 Speed. The Gameplay is superb as you can imagine... going 220 mph on a straight with vehicles to 
 the left right and centre, crashing is enabatble but that's the fun of it. 
  
  I think it is a great game which should be looked at by all racing fans.. its even a great multiplayer 
 for your mates to play. the Next edition has to be something special though to beat Need for Speed 
 and Gran Turismo but i; m sure the team at Criterrion Games will be up for the challenge.
  
  I'd easily give this game 9/10 as i enjoyed playing it.. Hopefully next years edition tops this 
 one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Burnout for the XBOX360 is one of the most surreal and exhilarating video games I have ever played. 
 Mind you I am playing off a Hi-Def setup with my sound system blasting. The game is a technical 
 wonder and I think the reviews on the graphics side have either A) Not largely been on a Hi-Def 
 TV or B) Not emphasized enough how incredible an achievement this game really is. The collisions, 
 the sense of scale, the particles, the speed, the physics, and the polygon count push the realism 
 through the roof on this game!
  
  The game play is practically flawless as well. It feels just like Burnout 3. With the addition 
 of traffic attack the game flow is more forgiving, so you dont find yourself needing to hit the 
 breaks as much. The pile-ups and crash attacks are more spectacular than your average Hollywood 
 action scene!
  
  The sound track is not filled with my favorite songs but they are fitting for the game and do keep 
 the tension high. The actual sound effects are top-notch film quality. The acceleration sound is 
 about the sexist one in a driving game so far too.
  
  This aint no port. This a living breathing Next Gen game that wont be put down in the driving department 
 for a very long time. If you have yet to see this Hi-Def on a home entertainment center, get yourself 
 a 0% finance card and make it hot.
  
  Bottom line: Absolutely blows your mind with blistering speed, detail, and special effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat360xb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge on the xbox 360 has the same exciting feel of speed as all of the games in the 
 Burnout series, as well as a looooong single player experience. I haven't had a chance to play 
 the online component of Burnout Revenge, but judging just by the things they tell you while the 
 game is loading, it sounds just as good as the single player. The game has the usually race modes 
 and my favorite, crash mode.
  
  The graphics in the game are better than the xbox and ps2 version, but there not so much better 
 that you would buy the game just for that aspect. The cars are very detailed, and show damage better 
 than ever. There are many cars to unlock in the game, and it takes a long time to unlock all of 
 them, so prepare to put in a good twenty hours of gameplay to complete the game one-hundred percent.
 
  
  One of the best things in Burnout Revenge is the great feel of speed, although sometimes when you 
 get a takedown or are going as fast as you can go, you seem to not know what is going on. This 
 doesn't happen very often, but it is annoying when it does.
  
  Overall I think Burnout Revenge on the xbox 360 is the best Burnout game yet, with the best single 
 player experience yet, and what seems to be an awesome online portion. I enjoyed Burnout Revenge 
 a lot, and i think it is a must have for anyone looking for some excitement and speed in their 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I shouldnt say REMIX, because this is the exact same thing as Burnout, with some improvements in 
 multiplayer, but its the same thing except shinier. BBut its still a good game in its right, and 
 its a must buy if your a fan of racing and *like me* didnt play it on ps2 or xbox1.
  graphics: superb, next-gen looking, still an arcade like look, but still is a vast improvement 
 on the already wicked graphics from xbox1
  gameplay: same as the one on xbox1, but its still fun, crashes are halarious, with unbelievable 
 pile ups, and its well rounded so you wont get bored of one area, because its a seperated so you 
 dont have to force yourself to do a race you dont want to, or dont want to do crashes, you can 
 avoid them, and not have to do them, but you wont get all the stars from that certain area.
  sound: good music, good crash sounds, explosions, but I really liked the music, its all music we've 
 heard of, and no rap or garbage no-name brand music.
  All-and-all, its a must buy for fans of the racing genre, but havent played it on the old gens, 
 because theres not enough here to make you pay the hefty sum all over again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esquives
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  I like racing, I like racing simulators a lot as well! But this is the kinda game who doesn't want 
 you to think to much and just play. After all it is only a game. This is my first time playing 
 burnout and I like the diversity in the game. It offers destruction on a high level but also demands 
 some skills from you as well. In denmark we use a term called "af reagere" which means to live 
 out your aggressions. If you live in a big city and often experience traffic jams you will love 
 this game. It allows you to punish cars and innocent traffic and at the same time makes you feel 
 good. The graphic is GREAT! The sound as well is astounding, you really get a feeling of high speed 
 when you boost your way in between cars or through them. 
  Also the game offers an nice little thing like rivalry. It is nice to have opponnents , but even 
 nicer to have an opponnent who have knocked you out and then get a vertical takedown on him. This 
 is another thing the game offers to me. I call the AI "him". It makes them personal eventhough 
 they act wierd sometimes. Other times they drive in-human. But it all mellows out in a nice even 
 balance. The rivalry gets knocked up a notch in the online part of the game. In th online events 
 there is really a reason to call the opponent him :-) And xbox live automaticly keeps track of 
 your rivalry and pin points them everytime you meet them again letting you know that you still 
 have a score to settle. Very nice! 
  The gameplay is what matters the most to me, and this game has a great gameplay, it is highly addictive 
 in singleplayer as well as in multiplayer. It also has great graphics and sounds and therefore 
 the game gets nothing less than a "full house" 10!! from me! Hope to se you online :-) 
  
  My xbox live name is "standing horse" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  Youre barreling down traffic-filled streets, clenching your hands on the steering wheel. What 
 lies in front of you is a line-up of cars waiting to be shattered, but whats left behind you is 
 destruction and ruin. As you rush towards the helpless traffic ahead of you, three more speed demons 
 come up to you and theyre not going to let you get all the fun. Determined to show them you mean 
 business, you unleash your fury upon these posers and slam them into a nearby wall, laughing as 
 you leave them in the dust. Thats when all of a sudden youre t-boned by another racer as you 
 drift around a sharp hairpin. But youre not going to take that, you want revenge, so you ready 
 your car to explode and watch as your car and your opponent burn in an incineration of flames. 
 You get back into the race and have just three words to say:
  
  Oh, hell yes!
  
  When Burnout Revenge was released on the PS2 and Xbox gamers were immediately mesmerized by how 
 much destruction the game offered and hailed it as a sequel easily worthy of the Burnout name. 
 The PS2 and Xbox versions of the game already tethered on next-gen gaming with outstanding graphics 
 and unbelievable destruction. Now, the destructive racing has been reignited with the re-release 
 of Burnout Revenge, this time on the Xbox 360 with enhanced graphics and audio. This is not only 
 the best version of Burnout Revenge and arguably the best Burnout to date but its also one of 
 the best racers ever released. While most of the improvements to the 360 version are only subtle 
 tweaks compared to the current-gen versions this remains an amazing and breathtaking game nonetheless. 
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, not much has changed with this version of Burnout Revenge, which isnt a bad thing 
 in this case. Burnout Revenge on the 360 is easily the most intense Burnout to have come out, and 
 the destruction, thrills and intensity of the game are what help the game soar to incredible heights. 
 Not only are the thrills from the races and crashes mind-blowing, offering an insane sense of speed 
 and lots of chaos on-screen, but the destruction makes the game incredibly addicting and this is 
 one of those rare games that you can have fun even win you lose. Also, this iteration of Burnout 
 Revenge allows gamers to view replays of each event theyve taken part in and record a thirty-second 
 clip that they can save and view anytime they want. In addition to that, if you have Xbox Live 
 you can show off these clips to impress some people over Xbox Live or show off your skills, whether 
 its a race or crash event. And speaking of Xbox Live, if youre lucky enough to have it then youll 
 be dealing with the Live Revenge Rivals system online. What this means is if youre taken down 
 by another racer online then theyll be marked as a Revenge Rival. If you have a Revenge Rival 
 then that racer will be marked for you to get revenge on by taking them out online. When you do 
 get revenge on a rival then that basically settles the score between you and him/her, so its a 
 good way to gain and lose rivals constantly. Other than that, Burnout Revenge is basically the 
 same game as the PS2 and Xbox versions as far as gameplay is concerned. With that in mind, dont 
 expect for it to be a whole new game if youve already played the current-gen versions.
  
  As this is an enhanced version of Burnout Revenge for the 360, youll probably be expecting the 
 game to deliver improved graphics. Well, if thats what you want out of Burnout Revenge on the 
 360 then thats what youll get. First off, the car models in Burnout Revenge are nicely detailed 
 and look even shinier than those on the Xbox and PS2 versions, which were already quite shiny themselves. 
 The cars also take damage from ramming traffic, getting hit by other racers, running into walls 
 and crashing. Gradually, youll see the cars start to receive dents and scrapes to where the entire 
 car almost looks like it came out of a giant pencil sharpener. Another nice touch to the cars is 
 that they come apart in much more dramatic ways. While Burnout has been destructive before, this 
 one takes it to the limit; youll see cars, buses, and trucks exploding and falling apart into 
 literally millions of pieces, making for some very satisfying crashes. The environments also look 
 better and sharper, but the changes to them arent as drastic as the cars. Also, Burnout Revenge 
 on the 360 makes good use of the smooth, sixty frames-per-second framerate that the Burnout games 
 have known for. However, the problem with the 360 versions graphics is that it still looks much 
 like its current-gen cousins, despite the tweaks to the visuals. The game looks amazing, no doubt, 
 but considering how fantastic it already looked on PS2 and Xbox its not like youre looking at 
 Duck Hunt next to Oblivion at the same time.
  
  While the graphical enhancements are certainly nice, its the audio tweaks that really shine in 
 Burnout Revenge for the 360. First off, the soundtrack has been customized a bit, featuring most 
 of the same bands as the other versions but with different songs. The soundtrack has a mostly pop/punk 
 collection of songs; some of them fit the game, while others dont. While the soundtrack certainly 
 isnt perfect and not for all tastes, the game does alter how much youll hear the song depending 
 on how intense the event youre in is getting. For instance, if youre racing and you hit the boost 
 meter, youll notice the song playing drown out and as a result itll be pretty hard to hear the 
 song. This is actually a nice touch as you wont have to hear certain songs for an entire race 
 or crash event, or you could just play one of your custom soundtrack/play-lists if you prefer. 
 But the real deal with the sound in Burnout Revenge is the sound effects. The exhaust notes from 
 the cars have been tuned to add more of an oomph to their engine roar. However, its when you activate 
 your boost that youll be slammed into your chair gasping for air. When you do use boost youll 
 get a nice, tuned roar from your car that makes it sound like youre next to a high-speed jet. 
 Whats even more impressive is the sound of the explosions, especially in the Crash mode. When 
 you activate a Crashbreaker in Burnout Revenge, youll be rewarded with a loud, mind-blowing eagle 
 roar-like explosion noise. These explosions noises are so rewarding, theyll have you going back 
 to Crash mode over and over just to hear another explosion. Sound is getting more important in 
 gaming, and its safe to say that the Burnout games are already ahead of most of the competition.
 
  
  Technically, theres really nothing wrong with Burnout Revenge on the 360. The game is incredibly 
 fun and addicting, the graphics are sharp and the sense of speed in unbelievable and the sound 
 effects, well, you really cant find any game that sounds better. But the problem with this iteration 
 of Burnout Revenge is that its more of the same as the current-gen Burnout Revenge. If youve 
 stuck with the series from the beginning like me and have already experienced this game on the 
 PS2 and Xbox, you really wont find much new here. However, if youre new to the Burnout series 
 then this is the installment to start with; its the most intense, thrilling and arguably the best 
 Burnout yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  I never liked racing games. In fact, I tried to stay away from them. But then one day, my friend 
 brought over Burnout 3, which was actualy a fun game because I love distruction. Playing that game, 
 drove me to get Revenge, because it is so addicting. These are some of the coolest cars ever. One 
 thing I notice was that at a start of a race (or any other many modes) your car is as clean as 
 a......... well it's very clean and shiny. Then after you crash it into a few things, you can tell 
 that the paint is scraping off. Pretty cool. The crashes themselves are impresive. Hundreds of 
 pieces just burst everywhere, and hit other cars. (which is funny to watch) A new thing that is 
 added is "checking" basicaly, you can shove traffic, driving the same way. If you aim, you can 
 hit your rivals. The game has a soundtrack of mainly soft rock and some crazy techno rap songs. 
 The right bumper is used to select your liscensed music. But I'd rather just use my own music. 
 Sometimes, I turn the music down, just to hear the amazing sound. Everything from the engines, 
 to the tires, to the echoe of a crash... It sounds like a jet engine with the Boost being used. 
 The game is stable, and that is what is impressive, because sometimes you're going 200 mph, and 
 there is thousands of pieces of debris, flying everywhere. There is no choppyness to speak of. 
 Heck, I would recomend this to anyone who likes to play good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, i loved this game since the first Burnout. But if you played Burnout Revenge 
 on the plain old Xbox, don't bother getting this game... just keep playing the old Xbox version. 
 Sixty bux for updated graphics isn't worth it for me. There is no new gameplay! It's the same exact 
 game, just in HD.
  
  But if you've never played this game on regular Xbox, then it's totally worth the money. I'd even 
 buy two just in case you lose one. This game will keep you busy. Crash mode is GREAT fun! So much 
 mayhem and destruction.
  
  Soundtrack is good too! I don't even bother playing my own mp3s while I play this game.
  
  
 Graphics are awesome, but the game is so fast that you don't really notice the details... you just 
 see BLUR.
  
  All in all, this is a great game thats easy to play and tons of fun! But don't bother with it if 
 you played it on the old Xbox... cause it's the same exact game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holesinswiss
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the fourth in a series of arcade racers and it is a worthy successor to Burnout 
 3: Takedown. I held out for the Xbox 360 edition over the regular Xbox version and I am glad that 
 I did.
  
  The game is visually stunning and continues with its extreme sense of speed and visceral, highly 
 satisfying collisions. It features a new "Elimination" mode as well as highlights the concept of 
 "revenge" - taking out opponents who previously took you out.
  
  The World Tour ("Career") mode works well. You climb up the Burnout ranking ladder by performing 
 well in various types of racing and crashing events. Unfortunately, this is the only way you can 
 participate in solo events - they removed the "Single Event" mode from previous Burnouts.
  
  In online play, the game shines. For the Xbox 360 version, it keeps track of your "Revenge 
 Rivals", those who you've taken out or those who have taken you out. Next time you see them online, 
 you'll know the score and who you need to take out to make things right again.
  
  There are some quirks in online play where takedowns may be attributed to the wrong player or odd 
 glitches when network traffic is lagged.
  
  However, these are minor compared to the issues of interacting with EA's game servers in order 
 to use the online features of the game. Perhaps a quarter the individuals I play Burnout online 
 with have trouble playing the game online due to connection problems with EA's servers, despite 
 having a router known to be compatible with Xbox Live and even putting their Xbox 360 in their 
 router's DMZ.
  
  Despite these difficulties, I highly recommend checking this game out if you like racing at high 
 speed with an "anything goes" attitude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 feels awful familiar to the original Xbox game. However, the challenging 
 Xbox Live Achievements and superb graphics make it a worthy addition to your Xbox 360 library.
 
  
  If you played any of the other Burnout game, you will feel overwhelmed by how familiar the gameplay 
 feels. The physics in Burnout Revenge fell identical to Burnout 3.
  
  Graphically, the Xbox 360 version is vastly improved over the Xbox version. Burnout Reveng is easily 
 on of the best looking games on this new console.
  
  The sound effects in Burnout Revenge are amazing. The engines and crashes sound like you're right 
 in front of the action. Having a surround sound system will enhance the experience more.
  
  This is an example of an Xbox port with completely overhauled graphics. There's nothing wrong with 
 this at all! Hopefully the next Burnout will be exclusively developed with "next gen" in mind.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuma334
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Hmm lets make a check list of what this game has.... Flawless controls? Check. Lots of explosions 
 and destruction? Double check. Nice graphics? Check. Fun online play with usually none of those 
 annoying kids? Check. Awesome audio, with a great soundtrack from popular and some not so popluar 
 bands, but nonetheless great, and all the crash and boom and roaring of a racing cars engine? Duh, 
 check. No lag? Uh I dunno why this is on the official review here on the old gamespot, but mine 
 doesn't lag. So CHECK. What does this sum up to be? The most fun I had in a driving game for a 
 long time, specially next-gen, as I haven't actually played the current-gen or any other previous 
 Burnout games (yeah I know I'm late so what?) so any skepticals that even gave this a passing thought, 
 I'm here to tell you to get it. I dunno for people who already have this on current-gen, but as 
 you know you will probably have a better time with better graphics and sound, as well as improved 
 online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  I've been a huge burnout fan ever since I got my hands on Burnout 3. I always thought it was stupid 
 to crash cars together. But now that I've played the 3rd installment, I was re-energized with male 
 testosterone. Now, I'm here playing Burnout: Revenge for the Xbox 360 and I have mixed feelings 
 for it. Not because of the quality of the game, but the value.
  
  Gameplay:
  Absolutely top of the line. Burnout Revenge succeeds to implement a user-friendly interface, HUD, 
 and amazingly easy controls. The action of the game really allows you feel more "intertwined" with 
 the game itself, no matter how unrealistic the game is.
  
  Graphics:
  I'm sort of a mix here. While the Burnout graphics are up to par with the 360 capabilities, I really 
 can't say that these graphics are huge leap from the Xbox version. I mean, there is a better sense 
 of speed, better effects and more realistic looking cars and environments, but the fact is, is 
 that the leap between Xbox and Xbox360 is so marginal, I kind of wonder why a 3rd party game was 
 ported for 2 consoles made by the same company.
  
  Sound:
  Much better than the Xbox version. I can tell you that the realistic car effects truly show some 
 effort into making this game. It brings more immersion as the sound and music unite as a piece 
 of the whole pie. The crashing, the explosion, the soundtrack, gives me a sense that I'm actually 
 in the car.
  
  Value:
  I have to sadly say that Burnout: Revenge is worth a rent. While the game is lasting as you progress 
 through the levels, unlocking new cars and sorts, the fact of the matter is, Burnout: Revenge for 
 the Xbox 360 is out for the Xbox as well. Why both playing the same game again and spending another 
 60 dollars to increase the graphical standpoint? There is no point. It' s better to buy the Xbox 
 version and then rent the 360 version. Why am I saying that? Well do you want to spend 100 dollars 
 for 2 of the same game? Not really. I know I wouldnt.
  
  Overall:
  I give mad props to MS and Criterion for making such a good and enjoying franchise. However, it 
 falls short on my reluctancy to buy the game twice. But all in all, it's worth the rental, but 
 not the buy. You can glorify the Xbox360's graphics all day and tell me that I'm not a good reason 
 not to spend 100 bucks on 2 of the same game, but really, it comes down to practicality, logic, 
 and a sense of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardedd123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  After a while ago give not such a great review on burnout revenge for the xbox/ps2, i just got 
 burnout revenge for the xbox 360 and the game is much better... the graphics is not all that mind 
 blowing but they are much better than the other version but what this one overcomes from all is 
 the carnage and the explosion and destruction is all top of the line best racing game ever made, 
 sure they have it for a systems but there is no way that those compare to the next generation system 
 xbox 360.... just to put the icing on the cake the best thing to top it off is the sound... that 
 will blow up away.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Every so ofter there is a game that just makes you forget all others. This game is it. I have several 
 great games for the 360 but I can't seem to bring myself to play them while I know there are still 
 unplayed races on Burnout Revenge. The sense of speed is mind blowing and the fact that wrecking 
 and blowing things up is rewarded makes the game even better. I've spent my entire video game career 
 trying to keep out of wrecks and now I don't have to. I look forward to playing this game as often 
 as I can. The graphics are beautiful it sounds great and the controls are very responsive. I look 
 forward to playing you all online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  No Sim Here.
  This game is all about pure out speed and hitting things.
  I love a racing game when I don't have to brake into a corner.
  I do like the GranTurismo and 
 Forza type games, but sometimes you just want to have some fun, and that is what Burnout Revenge 
 is... FUN.
  
  There are several modes where you are either simply trying to win the race, cause alot of damage, 
 or race and wipeout a certain number of competitors.
  No matter which mode your in, hitting another car is never a penalty unless you hit the sucker 
 head on. Turbo boost is earned by hitting other cars or even driving into oncoming traffic. I love 
 playing chicken for an complete race.
  Getting good Air and Landing on another car is a nice touch. Also there are several things that 
 can be unlocked. Different ways to take another car down, like smashing them into a particular 
 sign.
  
  The car selection is nice, however the cars are not licensed vehicles they are made up. They are 
 however pretty nice cars. The XBOX360 car is pretty cool.
  
  The Tracks are varied from mountain roads to cities. There are lots of short cuts that take through 
 malls, sidewalks, tunnels, all kinds of good stuff.
  
  The 1st Time I popped this game in, I played it for a good 4 hours straight.
  Both of My Kids 
 enjoy this one as well (Boy 10 and Girl 8) . It is easy enough for anyone to get into and have fun, 
 whether you win the race or not it is just fun to crash into things.
  
  The Graphics are not that next gen when compared to the PS2 and XBOX versions but it doesn't take 
 away from what a fun game this is.
  
  The Controls are easy to get into and for me the controls feel just right.
  I would still like 
 to get a force feedback wheel and experience the game that way, but I'll have to wait till somebody 
 (Preferably Logitech) makes one.
  
  The sound is solid as well. Nice music for my taste.
  
  Online was very smooth the times that I played, of course I get my but handed to me.
  
 
  You can finish sixth in a race and still have a blast !!
  Not many games have ever had that ability to lose big time, and still have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SO360
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I got my copy of Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 on April 8, 2006. I played it, and couldn't believe 
 how great the graphics were compared to the Xbox version (I have the Xbox demo for Burout Revenge, 
 as well) . The menus on the 360's Burnout Revenge seemed to have changed from it, as well.
  
  So far, after playing it with free time, I've currently got to the rating of "offensive" on 
 it. The game is relatively easy for me (my specialty games are either racing games or fighting 
 games) . I do enjoy the crash challenges since you can blow up stuff. I also like the "signature 
 takedown" features, as well. In a bit, I'm probably going to hook up the 360 to Xbox Live, and 
 try out the features for it. Maybe in a week or two, I'll go ahead and purchase a memory card, 
 have Burnout Revenge on it, and then take the offer Circuit City is having for the game (see my 
 blog for further info on the offer) .
  
  Overall, Burnout Revenge is one hell of a game. The original Xbox version's graphics were great 
 for the system, but the 360 version's pushes the limit. The many features on it make the game even 
 more fun, as well. My score for the Xbox 360 version of Burnout Revenge is a 9.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyuri
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Burnout doesnt feel any better for me than the original xbox version, and since I have a slightly 
 lower than standard television set it doesnt look any better either. The game is not linear at 
 all, it does not explain to you why some of the races are locked off, or why in one race you have 
 more cars than others! And the cars do not really improve much over time, just get a tad faster 
 and look a bit nicer.
  
  Where this game really does shine is multiplayer! The whole "rival" thing which many of you (myself 
 included) thought wouldn't work, really does work :-) well, it does for me anyways! Online races 
 are quick to join and if you get the right crowd can be very intense. Split screen is also good 
 fun, expecially with those traffic smashing races :-)
  
  As the gamespot reviewer says, if you dont have it then definitely get it, but if you have the 
 xbox version dont get it unless you really want to empty your wallet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_nitsud
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  For those of you who are familiar with the Burnout series, you already know that this is a fantastic 
 game. For the 360 they've added some a new facelift that really adds to the detail, especially 
 with the crashbreaker. Some new cars have been added to the 360 version, but that's about it. This 
 is the exact same title that was on PS2 & XBOX with a facelift and a few exclusive cars, mainly 
 the 360 car. Multiplayer is still just as addictive as always. From standard races to traffic attacks 
 to road rage & crash events, multiplayers' got it all. Also EA will track your Revenge Rivals, 
 making it easier for you to get revenge on that dirty jerk who took you out on that good run you 
 were having, you know, that one time. Most of your achievements will come from online. If you like 
 racing and some destruction, this is a must buy in my opinion. So what are you waiting for, go 
 online, maybe I'll show you around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theslayer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about BURNOUT. The game is visually stunning, physics are great, and with the 
 variety of game play options the game never gets dull. For the fans of the series revenge rises 
 to the top. I purchased Burnout Revenge on the Playstation 2, and was happy with it. The Playstation 
 2 version had flaws. The flaws in the Playstation version were not big deals, but they did take 
 away from the game play. If you do not own a XBOX 360, By all means buy this game on the Playstation 
 or Xbox. The flaws found in the Playstation version were fixed in the 360 version. No more lame 
 start up. In the Playstation version you had to try to maximize your start up with a rev type 
 bar. If you nailed it you got a fast start if you messed it up your car would explode. Needless 
 to say that when your car blew up it would make you frustrated. Getting a great start did not fill 
 you with joy either. A very lame feature that I was happy to see did not make its way to the Xbox 
 360. The graphics are amazing on the Xbox 360. All the details are there and they are amazing. 
 In some of the previous versions trying to see what was ahead was difficult at times. The 360 really 
 lets you see everything! The racing events are great. The one and only drawback to Revenge is that 
 in order to win most races the short cuts that are scattered though-out the race have to be utilized. 
 There are some races that require you to use all the shortcuts to win a gold medal. But, like I 
 said this is the only drawback to the game. The Crash modes are even better than they were in Takedown. 
 There are now Target cars that you need to take-out for more money. Also, after you crash and are 
 waiting to explode you can hear a crowd chanting Blow it up, Blow it up! Then thunderous applause 
 after you do. That is sooo cool. Another new feature for the series is the ability to record and 
 share your best moments. Did you pull off an amazing explosion, or do a stellar takedown, record 
 it and share it. How many times have you heard someone say they did the unbelievable, make them 
 show you! This keeps the liars in check and everybody else trying to beat what they have seen. 
 Plus online play. The online play is great! When you sign up for the race it lets you know who 
 the top dog is and you want to take the guy out. It is awesome to play against a real person who 
 is trying to win and not get taken out, all the while you need to complete the race first and try 
 to take him out in the process. This is how games need to be made. This is how games were meant 
 to be played. Thanks to all the amazing people who made this game possible, you guys did an awesome 
 job!!! If I have not convinced you to buy this game then you are probably broken, if you dont 
 believe me rent it first. Just dont let this be the game that you wish you would have played or 
 bought and never did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toasted_Gnome
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Umm... well i played the original xbox version (before i got my xbox 360) and i enjoyed it and beat 
 it, and had a great time playing it with friends. BUT when i rented it for my xbox 360 thinking 
 it would be a somewhat different game, i was VERY surprised...
  
  Not only was it EXACTLY the same, there were barely any new features... the only new ones were the 
 replay option, which is not a very good one at al, and the new tracks and crash junctions, but 
 gameplay felt the same, and why can you only make a clip 30 seconds long?!? Its dissapointing. 
 The graphics are improved, but not much over the original.
  
  Overall it is a good game, but they should have added alot more to the game to take advantage of 
 the xbox 360's great power. It was a great game on the original xbox, but simply didnt feel any 
 different on the xbox 360, even after its late release. (after the xbox 360 launch) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the 360 is burnout heaven. If have a 360 but you already have the xbox or ps2 
 version I would say you should only buy it if you have live, because 60$ is steep for a game that 
 you already own. The other parts of the game remain unchanged save for a graphical overhaul. But 
 if you do have a live account then you should definitely pick this bad boy up!
  As I said this version has superior graphics, especially when it comes to the crashes and explosions. 
 You can see more detail in the debris and cars when they are damaged. The sound is better as well. 
 But where this game really shines is in online. you can play both crash and race modes online. 
 One os the coolest things is that the game keeps track of who youve taken out and who has taken 
 you out and prior to race lets you know that there is a score to settle, it does this not only 
 over the current series of races but over all time. If you race against someone whom you have a 
 score to settle with from a week ago, the game will let you know.
  So if you have an xbox live account or have yet to play one of the current gen versions, this is 
 the game for you. See ya on the road! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MercuryFlash
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I have it admit, I've been looking forward to Burnout on the 360 for quite a long time. Having 
 long since completed the game on the Xbox, I was looking forward to starting all over again on 
 the next-gen version and I have not been disappointed.
  
  Gameplay - Nothing really has changed about the gameplay in the 360 version, but I see no problems 
 on that. From the speed and handling of the cars, to the awesome track desigsn with huge jumps 
 and shortcuts, to the nice variety of modes, Burnout still has the best gameplay of any arcade 
 racer. In IMHO, it's more fun than any simulation racer as well.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are simply awesome. From the detail on the car models, to how they chip 
 and take damage during races, to the environments you're driving through. It all just all looks 
 amazing. As good as PGR3? No, but this is an arcade game so I wouldn't expect complete realism. 
 The framerate is a solid 60 FPS, with a rare dip here and there that's hardly noticeable. I love 
 driving through Central Route and looking at all the massive buildings. The detail is just amazing 
 and such a huge leap over other arcade racers like Ridge Racer 6 and Full Auto.
  
  Audio - As impressive as the visuals are, the improvement in audio easily outdoes it. Just about 
 all the sound effects are different in the 360 version. From the roaring of the car engines, to 
 the rush of silence when you boost, to the crashbreak explosions in crash mode.. everything sounds 
 more visceral.
  
  Value - As with the current generation versions, this game has a lengthy single player world tour 
 with a variety of modes including race, road rage, traffic attack, burning lap, eliminator, grand 
 prix, and crash. The online competitions are still a blast to play, and the new Live Revenge and 
 Save & Share features add more interest to both the online and offline modes. I have to say, I 
 love finally being able to watch replays of my races.
  
  I have a few minor suggestions for the game...
  1. I'd like more control over the replays, specifically 
 being able to position the camera manually around my car. Sometimes the preset camera angles don't 
 give you the best view of a big jump or crash.
  
  2. I'd really like to the see the return of pursuit mode from Burnout 2. This mode works quite 
 well for Burnout Legends on the PSP. Unfortunately, this would probably make Burnout too similar 
 to NFSMW for EA's taste.
  
  Despite those points, Burnout Revenge on the 360 is an amazing experience that any racing fan who 
 loves breakneck speed and high octane action should definitely a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  Criterions approach to Burnout Revenge was a tad different than other companies creating versions 
 of an established Xbox franchise for the new hardware. It seems as though they consider the upgraded 
 graphics and audio that the new hardware affords as givens, and that the stronger platform should 
 be used to create innovative gameplay along with the better visuals and sounds. 
  
  While Criterion dumped a bit of time into the online portions of Burnout Revenge (more on that 
 in a sec) , the basic gameplay is nearly identical to Revenge for the Xbox. With Revenge in the 
 title, as you can imagine, this time its all about getting even. The idea is to seek out those 
 who seek or have sought you in the wheel-to-wheel events, but youll have to contend with oncoming 
 and same-direction drivers at the same time. 
  Bystander traffic is an annoyance in Burnout Revenge, but it can be used to your advantage. The 
 new check feature allows cars to be sent violently out of the way like the late Intimidator creating 
 his own path to victory. Rival cars can be checked as well, but most of these cars are programmed 
 to fight back if provoked. The whole payback theme of Burnout Revenge is played up with the revenge 
 meter which will build as cars are earmarked as road hazards instead of race participants. Cars 
 are clearly labeled (in bright red) as those who were out to get you, and now need to be taught 
 a lesson- revenge style. Revenge cars which are taken down will be clearly singled out with help 
 from slow-motion post-prod effects and on-screen text. Most of the tracks (which are based off 
 of real-world locations this time) are revenge-friendly too. Youll notice many double-backs and 
 open-ended junctions which breed contempt, along with chokepoints and, of course, ramps which allow 
 Vertical Takedowns to happen on a regular basis. 
  
  The entertaining Crash mode, where your only goal is collateral damage, has been greatly enhanced 
 for Revenge. Once off the line, you can gain additional momentum toward the ramp or traffic pile 
 up by checking cars as your would in a wheel-to-wheel event. With enough speed youll be able to 
 vault toward the traffic provided that you take into account the wind direction and launch angle 
 of your vehicle. Most of the junction scenarios in Burnout Revenge involve a ramp, so knowing trajectory, 
 speed, and simple physics formulas cant hurt. You can control your heap in mid-air, but if you 
 take off at the wrong angle or speed, youll never hit the target. 
  
  The target in Burnout Revenge aint just a bunch of expensive cars and commercial buses. Theres 
 an actual target vehicle which you must contact in order to get huge points. The run-through before 
 your attempt illustrates the vehicles speed and path, but its still a pretty tough proposition 
 to find it and somehow make contact with it. Creating enough damage to score a Crashbreaker (or 
 even two) will really come in handy when trying to contact the target car, as youll be able to 
 use Aftertouch to nudge the burning car carcass in the vicinity of the mark. Overall Gameplay Impressions: 
 
  
  It has been easy to knock the brunt of EA games in the past for lackluster online support, but 
 you wont find any complaints coming from me in regards to Burnout Revenges package. The persistent 
 revenge system is actually quite intoxicating. Criterion/EA went a step further by tying online 
 takedowns in Revenge Rivalries into the achievement system of the Xbox 360; this beats having to 
 play hours and hours online just to score a few points. 
  
  Offline, Burnout Revenge plays very much like its regular Xbox counterpart, which is fine since 
 it was a joyride as well. Of course everything is enhanced by the souped-up graphics and sound, 
 but the Criterion foundation is there. Youll have more fun smashing up cars in Burnout Revenge 
 than in the previous titles, as the gameplay has gotten a bit more technical. From fighting oncoming 
 traffic in an enemy punt fest to upping your Revenge ranking, Burnout Revenge is simply a more 
 challenging game than in the past. The level of challenge and involvement this time around equates 
 to replayability too. Add in the online functionality (including the nifty Save & Share system) 
 to the polished crashing and smashing, and you have the best extreme racer ever designed.
  Graphics 
  
  Yeah, we dont get any real cars in Burnout Revenge (what auto maker would allow 
 on of their cars to combust on contact in a videogame?) , and 289 miles an hour isnt exactly a 
 feasible top speed outside of a drag strip or Bonneville. As long as you realize that Burnout Revenge 
 is an arcadey, tongue-in-cheek look at extreme motorsports, then youll adore the look of this 
 game. The colorful and sometimes gaudy vehicles look nearly as good shiny side up as they do as 
 a flaming pile of junkyard fodder. Its really nice to see that the cars dont go from perfect 
 to useless in an instant either. Paint will slowly and realistically chip from your whip, until 
 eventually youre left with a ride that is more primer than anything else. Damage also appears 
 to me more subtle at times in Burnout Revenge. Instead of a love tap smashing in your whole back 
 half, you may end up with a spidered rear glass and a busted taillight. In time, your car will 
 fall apart though, to the point where it may have a bent axle, out-of-round wheels, or, ahem, no 
 wheels at all. So afther all this game is very impresive and buying worth.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acesion
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  From the perspective of someone who owned burnout 3 and never played revenege this game does away 
 with what was great about part 3 and instead substitutes it with alot of annoying glitches. So 
 this is technicaly burnout 4.5 since its revenge redone so you would think that they would have 
 found out all the bugs in part for 3 2 and 1 in order to make this game a flawless one. I will 
 start with my gripes. 1st since this is a 360 game not only does it look like it was a last gene 
 game but it also only supports 720P while games such as GRAW and Oblivion can do 1080i which IMO 
 look far better then this game. 2nd when playing in 2 player mode after each race the 2nd play 
 must press start 2 times before you even have the chance of picking a car or map while in part 
 3 you just clicked race again and it would automatically pic a random map and race with the same 
 cars while in this one you must pic the car al over again including color and so on. 3rd Online 
 sucks just because you have to go through EA servers which wont allow me to play games because 
 im behind a firewall even though i can play ever single other live game so if you have a fire wall 
 say bye bye to online play. 4th which makes no sense is that when you play your own music the game 
 while your playing will lower the volume where its under SFX no mater if you raise you music volume 
 in game or on the dash board which pisses me off because im raising the darn music because i dont 
 want the SFX to be overpowering even if the SFX have been done well. Thier also apears to be some 
 lag but my brother and I dont understand why when other games Run perfectly exp PGR3 which i shall 
 say look 6X better. One thing this game does succeed in doing is making it apear as though your 
 doing dammage to other cars but even that is wrong because you will always end up with the same 
 looking texture on you car no matter how you car was hit because once you crash you car looks exactly 
 like every other car that has crashed Overall if you dont have a firewall and intend to play the 
 game single player get Burnout 3 its cheeper and better and it doesnt have all the quirks this 
 game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattw1555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I love burnout revenge!!!! I love all the burnout games, and this one looks great on the XBOX 360. 
 The online gameplay is a lot of fun. I really like the crash party mode where you go up against 
 5 other players and see who can cause the most damage. Thats always a lot of fun. The revenge takedown 
 element of the game is cool. I always get a little more pumped when I takedown a revenge rival. 
 There are so many variayions to the tracks you run it makes ever race different which I really 
 like. Also, there are a lot of walls and pillars you can crash into so if you play this game, WATCH 
 OUT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Burnout 3: Takedown was one of the best arcade racers ever made, so naturally, EA and Criterion 
 wanted to duplicate its high sucsess by making a game that is like Burnout 3, but better. Sadly, 
 they failed to do so. Burnout Revenge is a good game, a very good game infact, but its not as good 
 as Burnout 3, I'm just putting that out there now. The graphics are stunning, obviously, and the 
 sound is great too. I didn't get a chance to play online with it yet, so that part of this review 
 is void of content. 
  
  Gameplay: Similar to all the other Burnout games, fast and very action packed, the gameplay offers 
 a high paced action game with explosions and all that jazz. One thing that puts this game apart 
 from Burnout 3 is the control, which in my opionion is the worst thing about the game. In Burout 
 3, the control on good cars was very responsive and it flowed when you wanted to turn hard to avoid 
 cars. In this case, the control is a little stickey, so its harder for you to make those once in 
 a lifetime moves. 
  
  Overall, this game is great. It is a fine addition to your Xbox 360 collection, and I'm sure it 
 will be fun online. So, if you have the money and love racing and the other Burnouts, buy it, its 
 well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is the best arcade-style racer on the Xbox 360 as of writing, and a damn fine game 
 you must own. This is a game that effortlessly fuses excellent and improved graphics over its previous 
 generation counterparts, superb Dolby Digital 5.1 audio and breathtakingly fast gameplay.
  
  Just about everything here shines, including the online aspects, which prove to be lots of 
 fun. There are several modes of play you can choose from here, including a "cat and mouse" style 
 race that'll have you chasing your friends or enemies in heated thrill rides throughout the game's 
 many glorious locales. 
  
  Another point of mention in this game is the innovative use of Achievements. Unlike a small handful 
 of games that throw points at you without really doing anything, Burnout Revenge will push you 
 to your limits to earn those accolades. It will require you to play well both online and off, and 
 experience lots of different and varied race events. 
  
  EA and Criterion have made sure you have to work reasonably hard for your awards in this game, 
 and the fact that there are so many different Achievements to earn, and that each and every one 
 is a fun experience proves to be a welcoming, refreshing challenge. 
  
  Burnout Revenge is a fun game from end to end. Its ultra fast arcade-style racing will have you 
 hooked, as will its crash events which are better than ever on the Xbox 360. This is a game you 
 should seriously think about having in your collection, especially if you like your racers. If 
 not, then I cannot think of a better game to usher you into the genre.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so much fun to play with the instant reflexes required to play you'll get really 
 good at racing games just playing this. This game gets you adrenaline pumping with all of the awesome 
 soundtracks and the 200+MPH crashes, it's incredible. The game is a whole new deal in Hi-Def and 
 is just so pleasing to the eye. You'll love this game if you like racing games with all the destruction 
 that's going on it's totally worth buying. The online play is awesome is incredibly fun as well 
 with a rival system that keeps track of who you've taken down and vice versa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  I'd like to start by saying that I'm a huge fan of the Burnout series, so giving this game a great 
 review isn't much of a stretch for me. Insert fanboy comments here........
  
  The first thing that jumps out as a major improvement over the original xbox version of this game 
 is the visual presentation. The graphics on this game are top-notch if you own an HD-TV. Real time 
 damage effects on both your car and cars you've collided with look as real as anything I've seen 
 on any driving game ever. 
  
  If you happen to have Dolby digital surround sound, you'll also be treated to some outstanding 
 sound quality that far surpasses the original version as well in my opinion. 
  
  The controls are basic, yet spot-on fantastic. Anyone playing this game for the first time can 
 easily jump in and start Burnin' right away with very little issue. This game provides a nice selection 
 of game modes to add a wide variety of things to do to keep the player hooked and racing for hours 
 on end, day after day.
  
  My personal favorite portion of this game is the multi-player over XboxLive. Nothing is more fun 
 than slamming perfect strangers, or close friends, into wall after wall, racking up takedowns and 
 rivalry counts as you do so. Again, a wide variety of online game modes means hours and hours of 
 fun to be had. 
  
  While this game is a port of an existing game from other systems, this game deserves even a weekend 
 rental if you already own it for Xbox or PS2. The graphical upgrade alone is worth it. Bottom line..... Burnout 
 Revenge for Xbox360 rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  If you already own this game for the Xbox and PS2 you probably shouldn't get this for the 360. 
 The one of differences is the graphics enhancement in HD and the other is the new online multiplayer 
 functions. These things aren't enough for you to get this game on the 360. The races are pretty 
 much the same as the current gen. If you are so much into graphics and want the new content on 
 xbox live than you should get this game. If you're not too much into those things than you should 
 probably better save yourself those extra $60. But if you never played Burnout Revenge and are 
 looking for an exciting new way of racing than this is definitely a game for you to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasaHova
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I had played this game a few times on my friends Playstation and I liked that you just rammed into 
 other cars and had the ability to crash and wreck other racers. 
  
  The sound is great and I live the sound of hearing the metal on metal and sound of pieces flying 
 all over the place. The graphics are next-gen enough for me. To me nothing animated can look realistic, 
 real is real fake is fake.
  With that said, the animations are great. I do like the animation for the trophies that you win 
 for certain challenges. 
  
  The sound track is really good I normally hate the in game soundtrack and play my own. This is 
 one that I have let run (should I say got the songs and incorporated them into my playlist)
  
  The regular races where you just have to be the 1st are ok an I liked the added feature of 
 race rivals (other cars that have caused you to crash) you get bonus point for getting revenge 
 on them, and even more if you get instant revenge (by way of crashbreaker) 
  
  The crashbreaker is so much fun; you get this, as other sites have said, backdraft sound effect 
 before you explode your car. 
  
  The real guilty pleasure is the crash mode where you fling you car into traffic and try to cause 
 as much damage as possible. With the inclusion of traffic checking (the ability to ram cars from 
 behind) makes for some even more interesting crash games.
  
  You can even record you best crashes and upload them to Xbox live and others can download them. 
 You can then get bragging rights if you clip is in the top 20. 
  
  The multiplayer and online mode is ok. it allows you to have race rivals and as in the single player 
 mode, gain points for getting revenge.
  
  All in all it is a fun game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  As published on cgno. com...
  
  When Burnout Revenge was released for the Xbox and PlayStation 2 it brought a facelift to the series 
 that made it one of the best racers on both consoles. When the 360 version was announced I caught 
 myself shuddering at the prospect of another Guna simple port with no additions that was slapped 
 with an extra $10 to the price tag. Luckily, Criterion included enough to differentiate Revenge 
 between the two generations of consoles. The result is a game that doesnt change any of the core 
 single-player experience but adds bells, whistles and an entirely new spin to its online racing 
 format.
  
  That new format takes the form of revenge stat tracking that lets you know who has been plastering 
 the pavement with you and also who youve been schooling. Small, red targets and green exclamation 
 points will hover around Live tags while browsing the game lobbies to give players an immediate 
 indication of whether or not the racers in a game are people theyve seen before. Of course any 
 takedown score, no matter how big, can be eliminated by someone settling a score. That means if 
 you have 2, 5 or even 10 takedowns in a row against a certain player the number will evaporate 
 the moment he or she retaliates.
  
  But dont think of these numbers as your only motivation to go about slaying. Burnout Revenge makes 
 sure that even if you dont have a grudge, youll still want to slam other players into guardrails 
 and highway dividers. The game calls out players for various reasons at the beginning of races. 
 Accompanied by some of the games excellent sound effects, a close-up shot of the races rankings 
 leader, series leader or any revenge rivals may pop up with messages that not-so-subtly imply their 
 destruction. Its not enough that you can bash people around the race tracks; the game makes a 
 point in making sure who you need to take out to win and thats what makes the online racing such 
 a joy. 
  
  If theres any problem with the online format its that Revenge stillat the time of this review 
 3 weekshas post-launch connectivity issues. In dozens of matches conducted on two different 360 
 consoles, which used the connections of three major U. S. broadband providers this writer suffered 
 a 30% lost connection rate. Any frustration you feel trying to find a good lobby with players that 
 will stick around is magnified by the fact that at any moment, for no reason, you may be disconnected 
 from EAs servers. Its not uncommon to lose two or three players from a full lobby by the end 
 of one race. It wouldnt be nearly as mentionable if you didnt have something to lose from it. 
 This writers Rep was brought from 100% positive to 70% negative from a myriad of reports that 
 stated I quit early as a result of disconnections. For players concerned with their perception 
 in the Xbox Live community they may want to steer clear.
  
  But if your Rep includes a few faulty attributes that cast doubt on your abilities you can always 
 correct them by showing off your insane driving skills. The 360 version includes a brand new featureBurnout 
 Clips. These clips can be recorded for up to 30 seconds at the end of every race. They can then 
 be saved and uploaded to the Internet where you can recommend them to friends and recent players. 
 Its a great way to preserve the best moments of the game like getting successive takedowns, doing 
 insane drifts or catching massive air. 
  
  Youll also notice one important fact about the 360 version of Revengeit looks fantastic. Criterion 
 used the extra time efficiently to deliver a visual feast for its players. The cars do suffer a 
 bit from the shininess effect that has plagued some of the 360s games but Revenges vehicles fall 
 neatly between the plastic-look of Full Auto and the crisp and refined polish of Need for Speed: 
 Most Wanted. As far as the environments are concerned however, the game ranks up there with the 
 best. Buildings, vehicles and objects whiz by and are proportioned enough to give a fantastic sense 
 of speed as you zoom through the streets. Cars explode in fantastic detail with bits and pieces 
 landing in just about every direction. Hoods, doors, tires, rims and every other part you can think 
 of will fly off on impact and reduce what was once your tricked-out ride to nothing more than a 
 crumpled heap of scrap metal. Vehicle damage is proportionate to the amount of paint lost and its 
 not uncommon to have a dented heap covered in primer and only a few patches of actual paint left.
 
  
  The last addition to the game that differentiates it from current-generation titles is the achievements 
 system. Burnout Revenge is a departure from what weve seen thus far from EA-published games. Achievements 
 consist of a few that are easy to obtain like playing a game online or taking someone down online, 
 but those are the exception. The vast majority of the achievements are obtainable only after many 
 hours of playing time both off and online. The type of free ride that came with Madden, it seems, 
 is over.
  
  But enough with the new. For anyone new to the Burnoutseries you may need a refresher. The game 
 consists of two different areasracing and crashing. Racing will take the form of standard matches 
 like Race, Burning Lap, Grand Prix and not-so-standard like Road rage and Eliminator. Included 
 in the latter part of that list is Traffic Attack, a new element to the Burnout series. Traffic 
 in the game acts a lot like explosive ordinancemostly dormant until activated. When you hit a 
 car from behind it propels through the air and takes out anything nearby, which may include a few 
 pesky rival racers. Note that you can only hit a small vehicle from behind. Semis, buses and any 
 approaching traffic will reduce your racer to bits and pieces. The inclusion of traffic as a weapon 
 changes the whole dynamic of the game in that you no longer need to scrape bumpers, or roofs, to 
 score a takedown. 
  
  The other half of the Revenge equation is Crash. As evidenced by the name, the main objective is 
 to crash into as many objects as possible and rack up a set amount of dollars in damage. Getting 
 traffic to collide is the main way to up the cash amount but explosions also factor in. Some vehicles 
 will explode on impact but others will need some persuasion. By persuasion, of course, we mean 
 the Crashbreaker ability. If all vehicles had a remotely-detonated bomb in them they would have 
 a Crashbreaker. When vehicles in Crash mode collide it fills some of a flaming bar. When that bar 
 reaches 100% you get to use a Crashbreaker and detonate your car. The resulting explosion will 
 blow up mostly everything in your vicinity and increase the dollar amount even more.
  
  The final retention from the current-gen version is the awesome soundtrack. You may not want to 
 utilize the custom soundtrack option since Burnout Revenge includes a bevy of punk and alternative 
 rock selections that fit in nicely with the games explosive premise. A few techno songs seem out 
 of place but can easily be turned off in the EA Trax menu. Background music will garner the least 
 of your attention however as Revenge features incredible sound effects with each clank, scrape, 
 explosion and shattering glass being distinct and loud. You owe it to yourself to use a surround 
 system to appreciate the richness of the sounds which will come flying at you from every direction 
 as cars explode all around.
  
  When the dust settles, Burnout Revenge does a lot to stand out from its current-generation counterparts. 
 The extra encouragement during online races, addition of editable clips and increased visual goodness 
 may not justify an additional purchase for people who bought it for their Xbox or PS2 but for those 
 who waited to see how the 360 version would turn out the choice is obvious. Burnout Revenge is 
 an excellent game for anyone who loves racing, explosions, carnage or any combination thereof. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for 360 was a big dissappointment for me. The game isnt too bad though but i thought 
 it would be better. Burnout's gameplay is not all that great. However, there are many game modes 
 to choose from, but it gets old quick. The graphics and sound for this game are amazing but the 
 gameplay is just average. The game is also fairly short. I beat it in about four days. This game 
 is definitely not worth $60.00. Wait for this game to lower in price (which prolly wont happen 
 for a very long time) or just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  I've been away from Burnout universe for quite a some time now, as a matter of fact since Point 
 of Impact. As far as I remember, back in those days one should stay away from bumping into cars, 
 because it'd slow you down, now things are different, one should bump into others cars (driving 
 on the same direction) , as it'd speed you up (adding boost) , the point is: this is closer to games 
 like WipeOut, rather than PGR3 for instance, but that's not a bad thing, because this is video-game 
 world it's suppose to be ridiculous insane every so often, and Burnout: Revenge do it in an incredible, 
 well balanced way.
  Now to the technical issues of it:
  The art: 
  pro: nice level of detail of the tracks, quite diverse (sea landscape, off-road, dirty alleys, 
 neon-full avenues, etc.) , crash modeling well done.
  cons: lack of 'personality' of the cars; very good in the overall, but we (X360 owners) have the 
 "bar" pretty high by now... .
  The sound:
  pro: sound effects, up to the greatness of the game. Ilarious crowd cheers in crash mode (burn'em 
 up!, burn'em up! - LOL!!!!) .
  cons: not much into teen-rock; lack of diversification.
  The Gameplay:
  pro: Nice single-play campaign, as it is varied. Incredible sense of speed. Unbeatable 
 control-system. Multiplay plays well.
  cons: Some unbalanced difficulty within the same rank, for example: the crash mode is very easy 
 compared to time-attack; a bit "too-light" car-phisics.
  Bottom line: If one doesn't have the previous Burnout versions, and are breathing - get this, or 
 you'll be loosing some major fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheezyt
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  this was a great game but i think it could have been better since this game is for Xbox 360 { the 
 best system out now} . Burnout should have a story mode to it. It would have been better if you 
 could choose your character or be able to create your character. This game should've had convertible 
 cars or cars you can customize. Burnout should of also had different modes in racing like drag 
 racing and sprint racing. Other than that the game is great. The graphics are perfect. You can 
 see every scratch on your car and the graphics are even great when your going 200 miles per hour 
 with nitro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge - 360, is not only the best burnout game to date, but the best arcade racer in 
 history. How is one to go about with such a statement? Has one played all arcade racers in the 
 world? No, one has indeed not played all arcade styled racers in the world, but thats because he 
 doesn't have to. Burnout Revenge - 360 is the best arcade styled racer to date. Its fast, its loud, 
 its pretty, best of all its fun.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Not only is the gameplay good its the best, you heard me right the best arcade racing gameplay 
 to date. Sure if you played this game 24/7 the gameplay could get repetitive, but most people... 
 you know the ones with lives... don't do that, making the gameplay rock solid and fun that never 
 gets old. Its fast, action packed, leaving you at the edge of your seat, be ready for the next 
 turn, or the next car swirving by because it might just lead you into last place. So if its as 
 good as I say it is, why has it recieved a 9 and not a 10? Well although the gameplay is great, 
 not much is different from the original xbox version, and besides that, what game is flawless? 
 Especially in the gameplay department? But believe me this is the best gameplay for an arcade racer 
 you will get.
  
  Graphics - 7
  The graphics, well the graphics are good and fast, and the crashes look simply amazing. But considering 
 they are not all that diferen't from the original xbox version, its quite a bummer. Sure the game 
 looks alot more clean, and sharp, but to me it seems Criterion (B: R game developer) got a little 
 lazy. 
  
  Sound - 9
  Awesome! You really have to experience this yourself, its amazing. Cars whizzing by, explosions 
 and metal molding into each other as cars slam together at high speeds. Burnout Revenge recieves 
 a 9 on this note. Why? Well the soundtrack is great in my opinion, to others it might be hell, 
 I know of a number of people who dont like the music I do, and I can only imagine how fustrating 
 it may be. Luckily on the 360 you can just turn down the music volume from the game and just load 
 up a few songs from your hard drive and play whatever music you want.
  
  Value - 10
  Yes that right, a perfect 10. Yes the single player is long and will have you playing for countless 
 hours but in time it will end, but the multiplayer portion is simply amazing, multiplayer is never 
 ending, and burnout brings a fun addictive game into your home, to me, thats deserves a perfect 
 10.
  
  Reviewers Tilt - 10
  This game is amazing, enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  You heard me, it's just a solid racing title.... During my play of this game, I've had fun.... 
 but not nearly as much fun as playing Most Wanted. The main problem, I build charector through 
 the cars I own. I like having MY OWN personalized car, not just a car with my choice of paint. 
 Thats one of many reason why to me, that burnout just isn't as good as Most Wanted.
  
  Pros: Graphics, sound, and general controls are all very well done. The tracks are interesting. 
 The cars are designed well, and look really shiny... It's almost refreshing not having to deal 
 with liscensed cars. The game is all about the crashes, and the crash mode is really fun as always. 
 The frame rate is pretty solid with the occasional freak out... But I have to say, with Most Wanted 
 and PGR.... 2 launch titles still looking better then this game that was released months after 
 them..... This game's online is really the only reason to pick up a copy. After months on the regular 
 xbox, this game is pretty stale.
  
  Cons: The soundtrack is HORRIBLE. If your not a big fan of this modern day emotional rock crap 
 (I'm a Juggalo myself) , your gonna hate how SOFT the music is. ICP, Slipknot, Twiztid, Disturbed, 
 Sevendust, and even some hard techno would have me actually feelling destructive.... As it is, 
 I can't be angry and destructive enough to play this game properly with g#y a** fallout boy playing 
 in the background. "Until the day I dieeeeee", which I hope is soon cause your music sucks. How 
 can you kids pretend to be hard and listen to Fallout Boy? You kids on xbox live are rediculous 
 sometimes!!!
  
  Final Word: Quite frankley this title started to see dust really quick considering Ghost Recon 
 is the far superior game. If you like racing games, you can't go wrong with burnout..... But if 
 you've been playing the other 360 titles alot..... you really begin to question yourself about 
 living in the past with this game. I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradoniusX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  This game will hold your attention for hours on end. Offering crash and bash gameplay at top speeds.
 
  
  Pros:
  
  + Incredibly fast speeds; fastest in a video game yet.
  + Amazing, realistic graphics.
  + Great, lengthy campaign mode.
  + Addicting online play in 
 many different modes.
  + Crash mode.
  + Alternate routes and insane ramps.
  + Good variety of courses.
  + Smart AI for the most part.
  + Many unlockable cars and courses.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  - Sometimes cheap comeback AI.
  - Gets a bit repetitive doing the same things over and over again.
  - Cars don't differ from 
 eachother very much.
  - Could be easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is game looks freaking amazing its sooo much more fun than any need for speed game ever made. 
 mashing your car while flaying over a gorge into some carvans is so much more gratifying than betting 
 some lame guy at sum lame race.
  
  this game looks so much more better than any nfs game or even any previous burnout game. these 
 games just keep getting better and better. these offer so much gameplay and so much fun, the multiplayer 
 is the best and the crash cam is funny as hell.
  
  if you want destruction derby on steriods play this mo fo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragSeeker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I played this when in borrowed my friends (Fusion Fox's) xbox 360, which was vey kind of him. Having 
 played ad completed the previous Burnout Revenge for XBOX (100%!!! wooo) i thought i would have 
 to complete most of the game the game again to get the better cars. But i was very wrong. The online 
 feature let you choose any car, even the very famous "Revenge Racer" (The Best car in the game, 
 i can make this baby go 280mph and maintain it for about 20 seconds. Not that im boasting or anything!) 
 this allows even newcomers to jump straight into the chaotic world of Burnout Provided they hae 
 a decent broadband connection and XBL gamertag. The graphics and sound have been completly refurbished 
 and tuned, so it offers a smooth, thrilling and enjoyable experience. The "World tour" can take 
 upto 40 hours to complete (Only if your very comitted and want to unlock every car and acheivement) 
 and the mutliplayer is guarenteed to offer hundreds of hours of gameplay still! so it is definalty 
 great value for 50. Burnout online offers a brand new "long term memory" featue. This keeps track 
 of every player ou have taken down and all the players ho have taken you down. For example, if 
 i took down Fusion Fox, 5 times in a match, this would be remebered. then the next tme i play agaisnt 
 him the game will inform me that i have taken him 5 times and that he is looking for revenge. Beware! 
 even if you have 712 takedowns in your favour, it only takes you oppenent 1 takedown to "Settle 
 the Score". This is very cool and one of the best new features which have been added to the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  When Burnout: Revenge came out for the original Xbox, I immediately bought it and really enjoyed 
 it. Alot of people said it wasn't as good as Takedown was, and I think that's really because Takedown 
 was the inventor of the "takedown", which plays such a huge role in the game. Gamers went into 
 Revenge expecting something new, and they did get something new: The ability to score a "Revenge" 
 takedown on a rival that has taken you down first. However, it wasn't what most people were looking 
 for, so Revenge wound up generally scoring lower in most people's opinions. Well, now we have Burnout: 
 Revenge on the 360. Yet another port that, no doubt, many are hesitant to buy. Is it really worth 
 the $60 if you've already mastered the prior versions? The answer: Absolutely.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful and smooth. I don't know for sure what people expect from a game like this 
 (a game doesn't have to look like Oblivion to be next-gen or fun) , but I was impressed and I don't 
 even play on an HDTV. Excellent lighting, etc. But the best upgrade is definitly the explosions. 
 I'll cover the sound of them in the next section, but graphically they are amazing with particle 
 effects and fire effects galore. When in a crash junction, you will see secondary explosions going 
 off after you cause a major accident. I don't know what it is, but watching a fuel tanker go "boom" 
 is one of the most fascinating things one can do on the 360.
  
  Sound: Many people haven't noticed a difference in the sound... and even a few have said it's worse 
 than the original version. My opinion on that is: Are you guys serious? The improved (vastly) sound 
 is probably my favorite thing about this whole game next to the explosions, which it plays a big 
 part in so I guess yeah, it's my favorite thing. Each car sounds different for the most part, and 
 the explosions sound drool-inducing. When you fire a crash breaker, it sounds like someone just 
 ignited a bucket of C4 3 feet away... it's awesome. And the soundtrack is very good as well. Finally, 
 a game that has a soundtrack I don't have to mute. And the boost sounds like a fighter jet on nitrous 
 oxide is taking off right next to you. Bottom line: Incredulously sweet sound.
  
  Control: Easy as pie. Don't expect the unforgiving cornering of a driving sim in this game. It's 
 an arcade racer, and it plays the part to the hilt, just as it should. Drifting is a breeze but 
 never feels overdone. Weaving through traffic is easy for the most part, and if you do mess up, 
 you'll enjoy the sweetest car fragmentation that the gaming world has to offer. 
  
  Gameplay: If you don't enjoy this game, you may want to have your head checked. Seriously though, 
 I sat down last night to try out the Live portion of this game so that I could review it. My 10 
 second "trial period" turned into a five hour marathon that didn't end until 2 in the morning. 
 There is absolutely no lag online. And there's none offline either (not sure what Gamespot was 
 talking about when they said "frame dips" unless they are referring to the menu loading just a 
 little slow after a crash junction while the replay is playing. If that's the case, boo hoo and 
 move on) . Scoring Takedowns and having your rivalries tracked is a piece of sheer brilliance. That 
 alone will inspire much trash talk, and much gameplay as you try to even your scores or one-up 
 those who have taken you down. And don't worry, they'll be aiming for you as well. The best part 
 of the online racing is before the race actually starts. When everyone is sitting on the starting 
 grid and the game will show you who you are rivaling with and, if you're in a Grand Prix, who the 
 points leader is, along with tagging a little one-liner underneath your rival that reads something 
 like "They're looking to pay it back - with interest" if it's someone who you took down last race, 
 or something like "Make the champ a chump" for the points leader. It's a small, small thing, but 
 you have to realize that if you're seeing them singled out by the game, then on their screen, you're 
 being singled-out. And if you're the points leader, everybody is going to be gunning for you, and 
 they'll know exactly which car is you thanks to this feature. It's a great amount of fun. This 
 game is a pick-up-and-play either on or offline and really delivers the total package that even 
 higher profile titles (i. e. G. R. A. W. and D. O. A. 4, to name two) just failed to deliver.
  
  All in all, if you like racing games, just go out and buy this game. It's the best offering on 
 360 since PGR3, and it's alot less serious. Just be aware that if you want a driving sim, this 
 is NOT it. But if you want fun, fast-paced (extreme sensation of speed in this one... everything 
 literally becomes a blur) action with some gorgeous visuals and sweet, sweet sound that anybody 
 can pick up and play, this is a sure-fire bet. And if you have Xbox Live, you should already be 
 on your way to the store to get this game. Seriously, this game is the reason I haven't played 
 Oblivion at all this weekend. Officially, I very highly recommend this game, especially if you 
 have Live. Revenge is sweet. Go get yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbossmin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a very fast pased, non-realistic crashing game - then look no further! I 
 have heard a lot of people say "This game is nothing but a re-wrap of the previous version, but 
 in HD and 5.1 surround sound" --- This is a bad thing??? I loved the older versions, and I am a 
 HUGE fan of this new version! The HD and 5.1 add a new element to the gameplay. As you are driving 
 VERY fast past (or through) the cars in the same direction you really get a sense of speed and 
 destruction. The fact that you do not need to avoid traffic going in the same direction, and actually 
 get points for hitting them - that is AWESOME. The only things you need to think about in this 
 game is crash the people in front of you, avoid incoming traffic, and don; t hit the buses and trucks 
 - kind of like what you would "like" to do in rush hour traffic coming home from work! ;-) The 
 multiplayer is the best, and the fact that you can save you best crash/destruction clips is a nice 
 added feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I have played Burnout Revenge on Xbox before and it just a completely awesome racing game. After 
 4-6 months have gone by, EA released Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360, with new contents like brand 
 new junctions and updated graphics. Was that enough to convince you to shell out $60 bucks for 
 a game you already or have not played?
  
  First off, the graphic improvement is huge, the paint scratch effect is nicely done. Explosions 
 and surroundings, background looks extremely good. The graphics might not be the best for a Xbox 
 360, it certainly is one of the nicest. 
  
  Now to the new contents, new junctions are available which I haven't seen before are quite exciting, 
 but EA could've added more like new tracks, cars, etc. 
  
  The sound is better than ever, the swoosh of the passing car and the explosion is bone-chilling. 
 The bad thing is the soundtrack haven't improved.
  
  Overall, this is what you would expect from Burnout Revenge if you played it before. It's a really 
 fun game, but now the question is... is it worth $60 for those upgrade? For new comers who haven't 
 tried Burnout, this is a definate yes but for veterans who still play their Burnout Revenge on 
 Xbox should wait for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  When I found out that Burnout: Revenge was not a backward-compatible game because they are releasing 
 the same game onto the 360, I will admit, I was pissed off! I felt cheated, but after I broke down 
 and bought it, I was very happy that I bought it. The gameplay is very similar but there are subtle 
 differences that make the game that much better. The biggest difference is the online game play. 
 It is so fun, and whats even better, there is no lag! I have been playing this game in between 
 my oblivion fixes, and have yet to see any lag! My opinion, this is definitely a game to add to 
 your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozzpot
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I am hard to please when it comes to games these days, especially so with EA-produced games. Despite 
 bottomless pockets and world-class facilites, the EA of the 21st century seems to me to produce 
 endless disappointments. It started with lazy PS2 to Xbox conversions, and today manifests as bloated 
 style-over substance next-gen offerings which invariably come out second best, or worse, in the 
 gameplay stakes. I prayed that the same fate would not become this, one of my favourite franchises, 
 but held out little hope given the seemingly rather quick release. 
  
  Within 10 minutes play it was clear my prayers had been answered. This game excels in every category 
 and never fails to thrill. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This is the first game in a LONG time to actually give me goosebumps and make we want to scream 
 it is so good. Spread over 8 diverse locations and several event types (including the awesome Crashbreaker 
 events) , the action is very, very fast, and the control (handling) is absolutely superb. 
  
  When it comes to crashing your car, EA have at last acheived a perfect balance of fairness. 
 Often a last-gasp effort to avoid smashing into a wall is rewarded with glancing harmlessly off 
 it, the collision detection is spot on, and objects which you would expect to go right through 
 are destructable (instead of stopping you like a brick wall) . The fact that all but huge trucks 
 and buses can be knocked flying adds an amazing amount of fun to the proceedings. You still need 
 eagle-like eyesight and cat-like reflexes to zip through the streets unscathed, but you can now 
 do so with greater confidence and much higher speed, which keeps your heart pounding at 150bpm.
 
  
  The gamplay also benefits from endless multiple routes through the tracks, some proving a quicker 
 but more treacherous option. Ramps and other objects suitable for jumping also add to the fun, 
 making for huge air boost bonuses, vertical takedowns, and often access to highly beneficial shortcuts. 
 The effectiveness of these shortcuts is in some way, however, reduced by a highly rubberband element 
 to the game, meaning if you are behind in a race, the game adjusts the relative speeds of the participants 
 to make it easier for you to catch up. It also means nomatter how perfectly you race, the enemy 
 is rarely off your case. I usually dislike this characteristic in racing games, but in the tooth-and-nail 
 rough-and-tumble world of Burnout, it just makes it even more fun. 
  
  Progression through the game is a little over-complicated, with a 5-star system based on not only 
 finishing position but style and aggression, which can confuse at first, and acheivements (both 
 Gamerscore and in-game) coming for many different things. That said, it means there is always a 
 target tantalizingly within reach, which means you never want to put it down. There are a lot of 
 events which should take the average burnout fan a fair while to complete (say, 24-30 hours play 
 time) and many of them are so much fun you'll come back for more again and again. All in all there 
 are 79 vehicles, and 8 locations (all which have many multiple routes and shortcuts, and come in 
 both forward and reverse, and short and long variations) .
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Simply stunning. Bearing in mind the 360's showcase, PGR3, doesn't actually produce true 720p HD 
 graphics (because they couldn't get it to run smoothly enough) , it is astonishing that Burnout 
 Revenge not only acheives this level of fidelity, but does it with ease. The cars are beautifully 
 modelled and detailed, with gleaming highly metallic finishes which reflect the environment beatifully, 
 and smash and deform with awesome realism when the going gets rough. The environments are vast 
 and equally detailed and beautifuly textured. Draw distance is practically infinite, traffic can 
 get very heavy, and the track is often strewn with destructable objects such as boxes, trashcans, 
 oildrums, signposts and fences. Despite this I have yet to witness a drop in framerate, the game 
 being relentlessy very fast and smooth.
  
  SOUND:
  The soundtrack EA have provided is large and well chosen as always. Featuring a range of genres, 
 there is something for everyone and every song seems to fit the speed and spirit of the action 
 very well. The sound effects are stunning, but so realistic you won't even think about it. Explosions 
 are deep and booming, rattling your own windows if your sound is turned up enough, and smashing 
 into large objects such as tankers often results in the horrific sound of twisting, groaning metal 
 which is so realistic it'll make you wince.
  
  VALUE:
  Between the intensely addictive single player game, with it's many many unlockables, an exhilarating 
 multiplayer game, split screen or live, with many different game modes, an awesome video clip recording 
 & sharing facility and even a DVD-style "Special Features" section where you can view various videos 
 unlocked during the game, this game will last you ages, and quickly prove to be some of the best 
 cash you ever spent.
  
  TILT:
  I have always been a fan of the series, but this incarnation has especially blown we away. I am 
 of the EDGE school of games review, i. e 5 out of 10 is average, and 10s are very very hard to come 
 by. But I cannot find flaw in this game. It is a true masterpiece of modern gaming.
  
  EA, I am sorry I ever doubted you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game has all the old styles of burnout like road rage, crash and race but the online play 
 is just mind blowing, id say for an online racer this tops the lot. It has all the old cars and 
 many many more, it has all the levels from the old one, more crash junctions and loads more traffic 
 has been added. I love the ranking system because it makes you feel better than you are because 
 i have only played twice and i am 11,435 and theres people who have been playing from day one and 
 there 30.000 +. I think for an arcade racer this has got my vote as the best. The graphics are 
 brillient but this game really has been designed for HD. So if you have a smaller tv you might 
 see the traffic in the sun light blinding you, but still if you have got a smaller tv then its 
 still fine, i have. This tops previous racing games like outrun 2 and stuff like that, but if your 
 looking for a serious racer im not sure that you'd enjoy it that much. The online is worth the 
 money any way, thats what i bought it for. Amazing game, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkam_Asylum
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  What's wrong with a game that requires boosting, crashing and laying the smack down on your friends? 
 Not much.
  
  Forget accuracy... forget realism... remember the arcade.
  
  Many that played the original XBox version have been somewhat disappointed, stating that Burnout 
 is a rehash or a port. I personally never played this gem on my original Xbox, so I cannot comment 
 on this point.
  
  I will tell you that this game looks gorgeous on HDTV and the sound is amazing. One comment on 
 sound: The EA Trax can get old, I want to play my music. The framerate has been fairly consistent.
 
  
  Frustrations:
  
  - For those looking on getting 360 achievements, the "Perfect" on each rank can be challenging. 
 It requires a "Awesome" rating and a Gold medal on each event... yes both, and they are mutually 
 exclusive.
  
  - Burning Laps: many controllers will be thrown
  
  - Load times: yes, stunning graphics need to load
  
  Strengths:
  
  - Explosions, sparks, 
 vertical takedowns... yeah, baby
  - Online Crash Party: Calll some friends, crash some cars
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  ok i find this one a good question
  
  graphics they only update a little , more SPARks and explosion effects some great road texture 
 and excellent vehicle texture already found in xbox version i give this one 7 for graphics
  
  gameplay great same ol fun gamplay burnout is known for though repetitive attimes it is the 
 best arcade type racer on 360 9.0
  
  the sound is not updated in translation from xbox to 360 as they say if it aint broken dont fix 
 it that goes for revenge its not boring as 3 was so i see why they kept the tunes from xbox version 
 
  
  value a couple of new cars and live online features and achievments added and more crash junctions 
 , plus a great boost everytime you start a junction i give this 10/10 
  
  tilt if your expecting a whole lot more dont try this as theres only a few more in here then xbox 
 version 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendiumx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Burnout revenge isn't anything revolutionary. The formula has been done before, and if you have 
 played any of the previous burnout games (specifically 3) you will click in no problem. 
  
  Graphics - WOW. The cars look amazing even with all the scratches, dings, dents, and passenger 
 side doors hanging off. The Explosions are incredible along with the massive destruction you will 
 wreak in your surroundings. There are some (very minor and rare from what i have seen) framerate 
 slowdown issues here and there, but they don't detract from the game at all.
  
  Gameplay - Again, same as any burnout game you race, crash, smash, and explode. The crashes have 
 gotten slightly more interesting with the addition of multiple crash breakers and specific cars 
 you have to target for a bonus. There is a new gametype where you psychoticly smash through traffic 
 for as long as you can without crashing into a wall or oncoming traffic which is an absolute blast. 
 Some of the races are very difficult (specifically time trials/burning laps)
  
  Sound - Now, i have to put something out here before i continue... i LOVED the burnout3 soundtrack. 
 The selection of music was GREAT. The soundtrack to revenge is just not what 3's was. However, 
 with the addition of custom soundtracks accross every game on the 360, its not a major problem. 
 The sound effects are NUTS in 5.1 surround. Just keep it under 1/3 volume or your ears will be 
 bleeding.
  
  Overall- Highly reccomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HD_Gamer_J
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what else to say, this game is just plain fun! I don't think I have had more action 
 or fun in a racing game, or in a Burnout game for that matter. The online in my opinion is the 
 best part, though the world tour and getting achievments from it is awesome too. The way Xbox Live 
 tracks your rivals online and shows who you need to aim for either because they are the points 
 leader, the rankings leader, or if they have taken you down in the past is brilliant. If your looking 
 for great fun and great times Burnout: Revenge for the 360 is for you. P. S. if you have High- Def 
 it looks beatiful too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  Ahh. I picked this game up yesterday guys. Oh what a great game! If you love sweet graphics, fast 
 speeds, and smashing up cars, then this is the game for you.
  
  Here is an overview:
  
  Graphics - 9/10 ... The only thing that is missing is better speed effects
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 
 ... Great game types, and the online is awesome!
  
  Sound - 10/10 ... Considering all you here is the sound of your cars and when you ignite the crashbraker, 
 it has pretty good sound.
  
  This is my review of the game. I give it a total of 9.6/10. This is a must have game for the 360. 
 This game can be considered one of the first fully potential xbox 360 game (graphics wise) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kimbo_Slice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  Other than the greatly improved graphics. Burnout really hasn't changed much in its transition 
 to the 360. You will still have a great time with the game and you'll see some jaw-dropping visuals. 
 But the game just hasnt changed. There is still no camera control in a crashbreaker, and there 
 is no change in gameplay. 
  Burnout's sound is amazing. You will hear cars whizzing by you at 200mph and it makes for a great 
 experience if you have a good surround setup. 
  I would suggest renting this game if you have already played countless hours of burnout and are 
 starting to get tired of the series, like myself. But this is still one of the best racers on 360 
 and it is a next generation game. I want to give it a low score but I can't. PGR is a better game 
 IMO.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowHYREN
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is so incredibly awesome, as soon as you start playing it , you wont want to stop, not 
 even if you were offered delicious homefries. Be warned, the things you can do in this game should 
 not be attempted in real life, especially while in drivers ed. (lets just say, a powerslide is 
 not a "proper" turn, going into oncoming traffic does not earn you boost, and traffic weaving is 
 B. A. D.)
  
  gameplay: EA, you make road rage super fun!
  
  graphics: second only to PGR3, but it makes up for it in all the other sections.
  
  sound: 
 the sounds in this game are so satisfying, i mean, just hearing the ppphhhhhssssWWWWWHHHEEEWWWW!!! 
 of the boost is enough to make you punch your mother in the face.
  
  value: 360 was made for games like burnout.
  
  tilt: if you ever met me on the highway, be 
 careful. ill take you out! try and get revenge, i dare you.
  
  overall this game is the best racer on the 360 yet, no questions aksed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The big brother to 2005's burnout revenge for all the platforms. The game stays the same to it's 
 prequels it is pure arcade racing, but what makes burnout different from other racing games is 
 instead of getting to start from finish there you have to smash up other people cars. Here are 
 some of teh modes Crash mode which you have to make as much cars crash as possible it is a little 
 bit harder but is still too easy. There is also race mode which you have to beat your opponents 
 by knocking them into walls and making them crash. And then there is burning lap which is just 
 timed racing. The graphic didnt change too much from the xbox version just has 720p which looks 
 nice on your high def tv. The over all game hasnt really changed that much from last time but has 
 new gfx''s egine and a few new modes. And also you can now ram traffic which make it a lot less 
 intense. The sound track is nice a wide range of music. The cars arent licensed but they do smash 
 up very well. The sound in the game is great. Over all if you loved burnout before pick it up is 
 a nice edition to your xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Check this game out definetly if you havent played it on the regular xbox. Fun world tour mode 
 but it does get exhausting trying to get all perfects in each rank. The live is fun as crap because 
 you can take down people and start a revenge type thing that is followed the whole time you play 
 this game on xbl. Achievements vary to about 45 of them from perfecting the game to getting two 
 vertical takedowns. I Give it an 8.5 out of 10, pick it up if u like racers alot but only rent 
 it if not cuz it gets repetitive. Im just iffy on the game.
  
  Gamertag: PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEMACGOD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface with the fact that I've been playing
  Burnout since the original and have an affinity for
  these games. I really do love the new 360 
 version,
  but I have a couple items of discussion.
  
  
  I have a Toshiba 57" HDTV with the 360 set to 1080i
  widescreen through component cables (God, 
 I wish they
  had HDMI output) . I have a 6.1 surround sound with
  optical audio inputs.
  This setup is exactly the same way I played the
  original xbox versions.
  
  
  
  It still, 
 in some areas such as the EA logo
  for the radio when the song changes, looks squished,
  like it's not true widescreen. My 57" HDTV supports
  1080i and the 360 is set to that... so, 
 I don't know
  if it is just designed that way or they are doing the
  PGR thing and actually rendering at a lower res and
  upscaling. I've tried putting the 360 and 
 the TV on
  720p, but it looks the same.
  
  I don't understand why I still get a
  communication error (could not connect with players) .
  This has been a problem since Takedown 
 and I haven't
  really played any of the series online due to that
  problem (it's killed me because of that) . The 360
  version gets this message a lot less, but 
 it still is
  a problem off and on. This is the only game (series)
  that's ever given me this issue on xbox live, period.
  And, it does it consistently. But, like 
 I said, the
  360 is about 1 in 5 times compared to about 9 in 10
  on the previous titles.
  
  If you play split screen, any time one of
  you crashes, all engine 
 sounds cut off until the
  person who crashed resets... then the engine sounds
  come back on. It sounds really jarring to constantly
  hear the audio cutting off and on, especially 
 since
  the engines are like 80% of the noise at all times in
  a race. I can still hear cars whizzing past and
  everything else, but every time I or my 2nd 
 player
  crashes there's this eerie silence. Sad the regular
  version handled this better. 
  
  Also, a minor item, but important to the
  surround sound 
 nature of the game, is this: Why is
  the booster sound coming out of the center front
  speaker now instead of the center rear as in the
  previous versions? It really muddles the audio 
 since
  most of the effects are now being sent to the front 3
  speakers instead of more evenly distributing it. I
  much preferred the booster coming out of 
 the rear
  speakers, as it made it sound more like I was in the
  driver seat. It would make more sense if the booster
  sound came out of the rear speaker when 
 you were in
  the on-the-ground view, but it isn't and that view is
  hard to use. All boosters should be behind you
  because if they aren't, you're getting burned.
 
  
  What it really sounds like is that the
  number of sounds playing at one time is less, but
  better quality. I'd rather have more simultaneous
 
  channels than a higher quality... it adds to the
  surrounding nature of the insanity. Maybe it's a bug,
  or an oversight... not sure, but I'd love 
 it if
  somehow it was fixed!
  
  Finally, for now, why aren't the
  controllers vibrating like crazy anymore? They barely
  shake, and to me, that really pulls you 
 out of the
  experience. Maybe not for most people, but since I
  'perfected' B3T and BR on the xbox, I am used to the
  certain gameplay aspects of those, and 
 the
  controllers vibrated in like you were holding onto
  the steering wheel of the car. When you hit a wall,
  you definitely knew it. On the 360 it feels 
 like a
  fender bender. I've tried different controllers and
  fully or almost dead batteries to test all aspects,
  but it's the way it's programmed... 
  
 Any way we can feel the crashes again? Or, is that
  going to be in Burnout: Chemically Imbalanced...
  
  These items are the only problems I've 
 found so far. The game is just as exciting and awe-inspiring as the originals, yet to the 360th 
 power. The ability to record your crashes is more than enough reason to upgrade. I only wish it 
 was more than 30 seconds at a time.
  
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the 360 even though its a ported game from the PS2 and xbox is still pretty 
 good on the 360, its almost like playing the same game just with A LOT better graphics highly addivtive 
 online and great single player, if you do not own this for the old gen consoles this is one of 
 the must have racing games out right now.
  
  Gameplay: This games is just plan fun wether you are online or offline play with your buddies in 
 multiplayer mode or just playing single player it will blow you away, i had tons of fun playing 
 it and to this dayim still playing it, its very hard to put down the controller because its so 
 fun, and if you are looking for a game that will make time go by this is the one you will play 
 this game for hours.
  
  Graphics: There so amazing, they make the cars look like there right there in front of you and 
 it looks like its the real car as well, the graphics are one of the high points to this game it 
 brings out a lot in this game. The good thing is when you are going say like 209MPH in the game 
 it doesnt just make evrything go blurry it shows them a lot clearer and more like the biuldings 
 are right there in front of you, unless you are really going towards the wall then you should stop 
 watching the nice senery and move so you dont blow up. I didn't have a problem at all with the 
 graphics they were amazing.
  
  Sound: This game might be one of the best games to listen to with your TV up on full blast, with 
 all the scarping of the cars and the NOS your using and even the engin roaring this game is by 
 far the best sounding racing game you could listen to. The only real probel with the sound was 
 the real crappy soundtrack but the way i found to get rid of it was play my own music so i didn't 
 listen to that crappy sound track as much, well it has one or two good songs but i guess when your 
 playing your not only going to listen to those to all the time so i suggest you play your own music 
 for this game.
  
  Value: The value is worth every cent you payed for this game, once, you finish your single player 
 and unlocking all the tracks and cars you can play some real fun things with your buddies on multiplayer 
 and that will last you awhile also you could go online which i would have to say is real fun playing 
 but its real easy to lose that rank you have so if you are in the top 500 make sure your finishing 
 the races in the top 2, but if you do have a chance play this game online its a real blast.
  
  Well there were only 3 things stopping me from giving this game a perfect 10/10 and ill tell 
 you what it was. When you are racing lets say on the wrong side of the road to get some boost you 
 dont see the on coming traffic coming they just appear right their in front of you not like zoom 
 there they are you notice them but when you do its to late and now you've lost the lead. Another 
 would be when you crash it would be nice for it to hurry up because when you crash it looks like 
 it waits for everyone to pass you and then you repwn back into the race either in 5th or last and 
 that gets real annoying sometimes. Another thing would be the frame rate issues but its not this 
 big huge thing everyone is making it out to seem its not bad but its enough for you to notice if 
 you are really paying attention to the game. 
  
  But all-in-all this game is mind blowing there are a little bit of problems with it buit their 
 just miner things nothing big, if you are a fan of the series and havent played it yet for the 
 old consoles then try it on the 360 its just to fun and to hard to put the controller down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfjeNL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game . The graphics are great and the gameplay rocks! People who like racing 
 games and love the speed, this is the game for you! You can feel the speed and when you crash, 
 you just enjoy the show and don't get mad. The multiplayer also is sweet, the new ''revenge'' mode 
 shows people who crashed you before so you can get them back, this is a sweet add-on. The soundtrack 
 is quite alright, their are some nice songs of Junkie XL and Fall out boy. This is an awesome game, 
 a true masterpiece.
  
  Power Unlimited !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muggwoffen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  It's Saint Paddys day and with it came this great release for the 360. Burnout: Revenge 360 is 
 the best burnout available, I going to rant about the superb oline mode for now
  
  ONLINE 10/10
  
  The greatest thing about this game is the Rival system, The game tracks who 
 took you down and then labels them as a revenge rival, you can play several seprate games and then 
 meet up with your old rival and the game will have rembered who he is and put a little red marker 
 beside his name allowing you to deliver some sweet sweet revenge.
  Another great idea is the new "Burnout Clips" were you can upload you're greatest burnout moments 
 and share them with everyone on your freinds list (Assuming they have a copy of Burnout: Revenge) 
 giving you bragging rights. 
  
  THE REST 9/10
  My only problem with this game is EA's usual set of whiny American bands blaring down your ears 
 as you race, of course the great thing about this is that its completley optional! 
  The Graphics are great, you can have your car reduced to a scrap by the end of the race and then 
 view the damage.
  This game is also Highly addictive, and will last you a long long time. 
  All of this is why Burnout gets a really great 9.7 from me!
  
  - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 
 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 9.7 - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hibbleton00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  burnout revenge was on the Xbox and PS2 but it is back and better than ever on Xbox 360. Most of 
 you are gonna be saying "i had this on xbox (or ps2) should i get it on 360?" Well the awnser is 
 a definite YES!!!. This game has a whole new sound to it ,they have changed all of the car engine 
 sound and all the other sounds in the game are so much better. The graphics are amazing and when 
 your speeding at 200mph the paint will peel! There is a new xbox live with revenge where u have 
 long term rivals that you can settle scores with by taking them down. The world tour is the same 
 though, which is ok but could of done with a bit of extra work. This game is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, This is a game that I thought I would never actyally get, I played BR on the Xbox, and there 
 just wasnt enough content, but Going back to it a second time is terrific. First things, and probably 
 Least important, but worth mentioning, (now that I wrote that ) [is] [are] the graphics; Crisp, 
 clear, sharp, detailed, ect. are just the beginning, they just simply look amazing. Secondly The 
 gameplay; action packed, mind warping craches, over and over, and over, and over, and over, and 
 over, and over, and over.... and over, you get the point, seeps like a mind degenerating concept 
 that is just plain dumb - it is - but that doenst make the game so! For sound, I prefer to listen 
 to my own soundtrack, its not to say that the games soundtrack sucks, but I just dont prefer that. 
 On the other hand, this is What a home theather surround sound system is for; dont know what Criterion 
 did to get the sounds, but they are simply mind-blowing ultra realistic sestructive subatomic wavelengths 
 travaling at the frequency that we can hear - that just sound so cool it makes you want to cry. 
 Now for the value - if you played Burnout Revenge - beat it all, and got all, you would probably 
 give this catagory low (that and the reviewers tilt) becuase its so similar - and it would cut 
 your gameplay time down considerably that you would probably score it a 6 or 7. The best way to 
 have fun in the game is to not have played the original game at all, it ruins the fun. The value 
 catagory of this game could be lower, In my opinion It should have bin 29.99, but get EA to listen 
 to me (allthough I work for them)
  That said, everything is great - and the best thing about this game (that most games cant get right 
 is the sence of speed, the lack of it, this game has enough to litterally make up for those games, 
 actually you can nearly "feel" it due to the highly immersive visuals and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hullaballo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Burnout game I have ever played and it does not dissapoint at all. After buying 
 this game I used my PGR 3 disc as a coaster cause its worthless in comparision to the adrenalin 
 rush this game brings to the table. The single player World Tour is considerably long and challeges 
 you just enough to make the game worth while but not so much that you chuck your 360 out of the 
 nearest window. The hardest part of this game is probably the preview laps which were the biggest 
 hangup for me trying to get 100% completion and will require you to replay and memorize the track 
 which can be a bit annoying. The online aspect of the game is equaly fun and EA has done a good 
 job of streamlining the online aspect it is very easy to find the type of game you want and have 
 it start fairly quickly. My only problems with this game are that it has frozen on me a few times 
 and I have herd of it freezing during a save which causes you to loose that accomplishment. Also 
 many of the cars look similar to eachother and it isnt easy to figure out which is your best car 
 at certian points in the game. The sound in this game is one of its highpoints along with the fantastic 
 damage modeling which add greatly to the intense gameplay. I recomend this game to any race, demolition, 
 or fast paced action fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The newest addition to the Burnout series. I have never played any of the Burnout games until this 
 one, so I didnt know about the concept of running into things is a good thing!
  Gameplay- Very fun. I love racing games, and when I play them I always end up hitting traffic and 
 lossing a spot. This would get me really mad. BUT in this game if you hit traffic, you don't go 
 flipping into the air , you actually push it off to the side and get more turbo. There is an exception 
 and thats when you hit oncomming traffic. Then you explode and lose a spot depending on how close 
 behind your opponent is.
  Graphics- TIGHT! They are really good. I thought that Need for Speed MW's graphics were better, 
 but they are still really good.
  Sound- Good Good, the sound affects fit well.
  Value- Im kind of a cheap guy so I say its not really worth 60$. Its value will go up as the price 
 goes down.
  It was a very fun game. The online play added an extra tilt. I dont think its worth they buy Completely 
 yet, but give it a month or so for it to sink 10 bucks. Another exciting Racing game for the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthegamingman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is an excellent example of taking a brilliant series and culminating it into one 
 brilliant and refined package. It is true that Burnout Takedown scored better reviews than Revenge 
 by critics, but that is simply the result of the jump in quality Burnout 3 had over Burnout 2, 
 but make no mistake, review scores aside. Burnout Revenge is the best in the series to date.
  The main additions in Revenge are the Crashbreakers (the option to self destruct your car when 
 you crash to take out opponents in your area and gain instant revenge) , Traffic Takedowns, and 
 multiple track paths. Also, the game tracks opponents that take you out and highlights in a way 
 so that you know who you need to exact revenge on. 
  The single player campaign is incredible and you should get a good 20 hours out of it to achievement 
 the highest ranking. After that the online is incredible. The races, road raging, road raging with 
 crashbreakers, the crash events, etc. Burnout Revenge has everything, even if you don't or do have 
 XBL the multiplayer portion of the game is outstanding. Sure the game is a port of a 6 month old 
 game, but its had 10 new crash events added as will as tweaks to the online portion of the game. 
 The graphics are overhauled to make it a beautiful HD experience. All in all Burnout Revenge is 
 a blast to play and one of the best times you will have with your X360 this early in its life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I was playing burnout the other day when my friend was watching, a friend who isnt too into games, 
 and said something that made me question the integrity of this series. After watching me complete 
 several events in a row, he turned, opened his mouth, and said, "this game looks fun". Now, I know 
 what most people are saying right now, most games are, and yes I agree, but its the few games that 
 intice another to say such things. I mean, how often does someone say that the sky is blue? 
  
  Anyone who has played the burnout series before knows what to expect with this rendition. What 
 makes this the best burnout yet is three things: HD graphics, additional cars/events, and the elimination 
 of the swinging start-up system that previous revenge's had. I won't go into too much detail regarding 
 the 'improvements', you can check the gamespot review for that, but what I will say is that at 
 the end of the day, when my 360 is shut off and I'm dozing off to sleep, my final thoughts are 
 still of girls but my burnout experience doesn't trail that far off behind, and trust me, thats 
 saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youdie15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh yes burnout what a good game. I just wish more new things were added to this game. Sure theres 
 some new online but thats about it. Still this games insane. The sounds awesome the controlls are 
 finely tuned. And the new online additions are fun. But criterion WHY ISNT THERE ALOT OF NEW THINGS. 
 If you have been waiting for this version buy this now. But if you have other versions wait for 
 burnout 5. But wait im not done!! if you love online racing get this now. The online is virtually 
 lagg free and fast and furious. Also theres tons of modes to play. So make your chase burnout or 
 not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desaimastaflash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to Burnout Revenge for a long time and I bought it the moment it was available. 
 However, it was a bit disappointing. Don't get me wrong, it is a great game, but I expected it 
 to be better. I never played Revenge on the Xbox, but I did have Legends on the Xbox. I loved Legends. 
 When I got Revenge for 360, the first thing I noticed was that it doesn't feel as fast as Legends 
 did. The Graphics are definetly great, and the new menu modes are pretty interesting, but It just 
 doesn't feel as fast or intense as Legends did. Also, I feel like because they waited so long to 
 release this game after 360s launch that they should have put more things in the game to distinguish 
 Revenge between the 360 and xbox versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untitled-One
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I had plenty of games to work with so in the end I decided to just wait to play the XBOX360 version 
 of Burnout Revenge.. and trust me I say that it was worth it. It's rare when I actually love a 
 racing game.. and since I was such a big fan of Burnout 3: Takedown, naturally I was excited to 
 play Revenge. But let's get this straight.. if you did like so many others have said by "playing 
 the the XBOX or PS2 version to death".. your not going to notice as much of a difference right 
 away.. but I don't think that should take away from this game's greatness.. becuase I played this 
 version first and then went down to the other versions and THAT'S when you notice the real difference 
 folks.. great game that got me more excited about the XBOX360 than some of the other underwhelming 
 launch titles.. I can't wait for a version built from the ground-up for the next generation. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfOldSkool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I had plenty of games to work with so in the end I decided to just wait to play the XBOX360 version 
 of Burnout Revenge.. and trust me I say that it was worth it. It's rare when I actually love a 
 racing game.. and since I was such a big fan of Burnout 3: Takedown, naturally I was excited to 
 play Revenge. But let's get this straight.. if you did like so many others have said by "playing 
 the the XBOX or PS2 version to death".. your not going to notice as much of a difference right 
 away.. but I don't think that should take away from this game's greatness.. becuase I played this 
 version first and then went down to the other versions and THAT'S when you notice the real difference 
 folks.. great game that got me more excited about the XBOX360 than some of the other underwhelming 
 launch titles.. I can't wait for a version built from the ground-up for the next generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 500abelard
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  OH DEAR GAWD! Okay I have been a fan of the Burnout games from the first one on the Xbox but the 
 version on the 360 all cleaned up and tweaked is just AWESOME. I too was one of those who bought 
 and play almost to 100% the Xbox version of Burnout Revenge so I was not sure if I was going to 
 buy the 360 version. Well after trading in my Xbox and getting my 360 I really started to miss 
 the racing and crashing. I was not let down. The graphics are stunning and even more impressive 
 is the surround sound. They have fixed a couple of the thing that got on my nerve like the start 
 of Crashes on the Xbox with the meter is no gone. The other nice thing is the "long term memory" 
 that remembers your rivals when playing on-line.
  
  If you have played it on the Xbox it is still worth the buy on 360 and if you have not played it 
 at all pick it up if you love arcade type racing and blinding speed with huge crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game & pretty fun but the fresh coat of paint gimmick on old games is starting to wear 
 thin and getting old fast. Any developer who once showed signs of greatness with new innovative 
 ideas and then gets bought up by a massively large studio (EA) who is known for releasing regurgitated 
 concepts over and playing it safe over again is bound to see trouble eventually despite claims 
 of untouched creative freedom by the developer. Well its obviously happening now as Criterion is 
 begining to show signs of desperation and releasing their rehashed game for the Xbox 360. I bought 
 thinking I was going to be as excited as ever especially with the higher resolution textures and 
 new multiplayer modes this port has recieved but you know what? Its seems like I already played 
 the game before and the additions do not make me feel that excited. 
  
  Its fun to play, looks great but it does get old fast. So much so that while its fun, I am not 
 really aching to pick up my controller and play it longer than more than one hour per sitting. 
 Its almost like Criterion needs the money so they rehashed the last game with small things and 
 rereleased it and that reminds me of what EA and Capcom did in the past. Well actually, EA still 
 does that and while I LOVED Most Wanted for the 360 (because it feels retooled and BRAND NEW) , this 
 outing from Criterion seems STALE. Criterion really should just clip the umbilical from EA and 
 go solo because if this partnership keeps up, you can bet we will be seeing Burnout for 7 more 
 tiles and small revisions per title that will make the sequels look like expansions. And the loading 
 times SUCK.
  
  What happens to people who have a harddrive? Nothing. We get to save games and clips to the harddrive 
 sure but we have to sit through tedious loading times that you think any Developer working on next 
 generation hardware would have already addressed by now. Sorry guys/girls, I can't recommend this 
 game for anything but a rental. Save your $60 on a real next generation game like Ghost Recon 3. 
 The bottom line is this game is MEDIOCRE.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  For those of you that have played any of the previous burnout games, this edition should come as 
 no suprise. While holding all the features that made the previous games great, burnout revenge 
 raises the bar a bit more. 
  
  The feeling of intensity is burnout's trademark. Revenge is no exception. With near next-gen graphics, 
 it takes you through amazing scenery while keeping the feel of high speed action prevalent. The 
 new courses are finlely detailed, and full of short-cuts and other tweaks. 
  
  With the few added features, including the addition of a revenge driver (if the bastards can even 
 get at you) , this game makes you want to keep playing. 
  
  Burnout Revenge is easily the most fun racing game to date, and blows out weak games like PGR3 
 and Full Auto with ease. For the select few of us who own a 360, this is the racing game to get.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2TrickedOut
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The best of the previous versions are here. The cars handle amazing at high speeds. The takeouts 
 are harder and the gameplay is more intense
  Graphics:
  Everything has been bumped up the cars look great they look shiner. Reflections can be seen clearly 
 in the cars. The game runs amazingly smooth and so fast. The new damage effects and loads of sparks 
 when hitting something are nice too. Oh, and the explosions are gorgeous. 
  
  Sound:
  everything from the car engines to the jet sounding boost sound effects have been improved. There 
 are better music tracks and you can still play your own custom tracks
  Replay:
  The Replay value in this game is high. I have won it on the regular xbox version, but this version 
 I am going to try to finish the game in all gold medals wich will take longer. The game has enough 
 variety in tracks and cars that it seems to be a unique race each time since there are shortcuts 
 and kinda hidden routes. The new online features make this a game that will never get old. This 
 will always be one of my favs
  Overall:
  If you owned the xbox version you will still find a lot to love here. The game looks great in high 
 def 1080 ect and the improved online play is enough alone to warrant its purchase. So go buy it 
 now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  the burnout series has always been fun to me. this is no exception. its just as fun as the xbox 
 version only better graphics, way better crashes, and more things to do online. online is easy 
 with little to no lag and competition is funny online because your constantly pitted against someone. 
 what really cool graphic wise is the detail of the cars and the cars damage. that is just plain 
 awesome. i used to own the xbox version and this one is better which makes me mad that i already 
 know what to do with this game instead of being suprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Look i think this gane is like a rental if even that i played it for about 45 minutes and i was 
 done with it. Its no better then the ones for the original xbox except for the graphics. They shouls 
 have done something to try and improve on the game play but its exactly the same how can i still 
 be intersted. I bought 1 and 2 i thought 1 was amazing and two was just as good although not as 
 fun as the first one because it was repetitive and now all they did again is shine up the graphics. 
 I think that it is a great game for whoever didn t play and beat the first one butfor the ones 
 that loved the first one and the second one i think that this is a let down. All they are doing 
 is shinning up the graphics. Everyone cuts up fullauto and i still have a blast playing it and 
 ive had it for over a month and BO i rented and i played it the first day and thats it I am kinda 
 disappointed i thought there might be something new and no i dont think this game is an 8 its a 
 low to middle 7 because as i said the gameplay is the same on all three and im kinda bord of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullkrusher13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge is without a doubt the best arcade racer on the 360, and I doubt anything will 
 top it (until the next Burnout) . Its just so fun to play, and so addicting. From the 360 quality 
 graphics to the flawless gameplay, this game has the whole package. It has the best online gameplay 
 on the 360, because it is lag free, it creates frendly competition, and leaves you blinkless until 
 your eyes dry out. I can't find a single fault in the game so far, and I doubt I will. The whole 
 "world tour" single player is just challenging enough so it will make you master the tracks to 
 get gold. A little hard at times, but that's just nitpicking. If you like shiny things that go 
 boom real good, (and you have a 360) you should find $60 any way you can, and go buy it............... now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iisryan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 is a game that is fun to just sit down and play. It delivers a 
 one-two punch and knockout in every department avalable. The graphics are top-notch, the sound 
 is without equal, and the speed really pushes the game into a whole new catergory.
  
  For those of you who have never played a Burnout game before just like me before I bought this 
 one, you're in for a treat. While I cannot compare it to other Burnout games, Revenge for the Xbox 
 360 is better than most other racing games currently on the market.
  
  The gameplay is in a league of its own. A challenge that every racing game designer is faced with 
 is speed vs. playability. The faster the game goes, the more fun it is to play and the better it 
 looks but it can become so challanging and frustrating, at a point, that no one will want to play 
 it. Nintendo's F-Zero GX bordered on this problem. Momentary mistakes could mean the entire race 
 for a person. Game developers have recently started using "speed effects" such as blurring to try 
 to make the car look like it is going faster than it really is (Need for Speed: Underground, PGR3) . 
 Burnout Revenge, however, is not afraid to break all barriers and take the speed to where no console 
 racer has ever gone before. While sometimes the speeds to seem a bit high, the game has done a 
 good job of making sure it is not an overwhelming experience for the gamers' minds.
  
  The offensive points in the game make it very fun and different from any other past racing games. 
 Burnout Revenge has perfected the "Takedown" system, that is, destroying the cars of opponents. 
 The Revenge Marker system and the various rewards a car gets from Taking Out another make offense 
 and defense just as important as winning the race. It adds a "third dimension" to racing games 
 and makes Burnout Revenge stand out even more from its competition.
  
  The graphics don't look quite as sharp as Project am Racing 3 but they do not look bad by any extent 
 of the imagination. Revenge's graphics are still some of the nicest on the Xbox 360, just behind 
 Kameo, PGR and Perfect Dark Zero. The graphical selling point of Revenge is the damage -- the explosions, 
 sparks, damage and peeling paint. The cars and the damage they take look about as realistic as 
 you're going to find. Also, the graphical changes to the car that are bound to take place add to 
 the game. They help create that life and , destruct-o racing persona the Burnout series is famous 
 for.
  
  The controls and physics of the games are in no ways realistic like other racers like PGR3 or GranTurismo. 
 They are styled after "arcade racers" such as San Francisco Rush (which, itself, later took the 
 form of LA Rush in 2005) . The physics are forgiving, even at such high speeds, and the steering 
 can be pulled off at high speeds without any need to slow down. This gives Burnout Revenge a "sit 
 down and play" feel for all gamers and makes it more of an instinct racer than a trivial racer.
 
  
  The only obvious flaw in the game is the lack of balance in the cars. There are a total of 78 cars 
 that can be unlocked throughout the game; all of which seem to become progressivly better and better. 
 While this adds to the single player mode, it really detracts from the multiplayer mode. There 
 is no reason besides the novelty of every once in a while using a new car that a player would choose 
 any car outside of the last 3 or 4 unlocked. The worse cars have no real upside to them and are 
 much slower than the better cars. This takes out of the replay value of the game a bit.
  
  Overall, the game is a must have for racing fans. The fast, e and very theatrical approach of the 
 game make it a real experience. After twelve minutes playing, you think you've just been playing 
 three hours of non-stop action. The game is not all flash, though. The gameplay itself is very 
 solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Well the game dosen't change very much from the original burnout revenge . There are many anoying 
 lighting effects now though , i'm not sure if they were there in the original , but the lighting 
 effects makes it hard to see other cars and your own car. The graphics for the cars have improved 
 a little , cars take damage on whichever side got hit. So if i'm riding up against the wall with 
 sparks coming off ; the paint on the side which i was pushing the car on will have lost paint and 
 will have scratches , if you get crashed into on a side then that side will have a big dent in 
 it.
  
  If you have the original i wouldn't get this one , but if you haven't played it i say it's a pretty 
 fun game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. That is a simple way I can put it. There is a lot of original ideas in 
 this game which is good. The graphics are extremely polished and the gameplay of the game is fast 
 paced and there is a lot of modes which are usually always fun to do. The game does load a lot 
 though which is quite annoying and the music is terrible. The DJ is really poor but you can switch 
 him off which is good. There is a lot of neat touches to this game which in a way makes it what 
 it is. This is one hell of game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game is good enough to buy. The only thing I have a problem is the loading time. We are 
 supposed to be in the NEXT GENERATION for gaming... and well.... thats about it. The Visuals are 
 GREAT. The sound is great! The soundtrack is the same :- (
  
  It runs very smooth online and the online lobbies are set up very good. If you haven't got to experience 
 this game on an HDTV you are missing out on the whole idea of BURNOUT on the XBOX 360. If you have 
 a standard television... you will miss the whole NexGen feel. I have to say I am very impressed 
 and can say that the $60.00 price plus tax is a little steap... but it is a good one!!! You will 
 find yourself spending alot of time online!
  
  All in all this game is very nice and smooth.
  Recommend buy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergod1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  the current gen versions are great, but this game just ups the anti once more. just amzing! if 
 you need a reason to get a xbox 360, this is definitly it! the graphics are great, the cars look 
 stunning. Arguebly the best game on the xbox 360. the sound is just right for this type of game. 
 And best of all the action is heart stopping so much adernilin pumping fun. the online mode is 
 great, it increases the life span of the game no end, its so competitive in other versions and 
 probly more so in this one.
  
  p. s. (sry bout sp) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Graphics are great. Car damage is improved enough to make you never play other Burnouts again. 
 Sounds (besides the music) are very realistic in that arcade way. So many modes that you're head 
 might pop.
  
  Cons:
  Slight lag on major crashes, but nothing to stop you from enjoying it. Some clipping issues such 
 as flying through a wall. Music is terrible IMO. I like some of the genres, but all the songs are 
 just lame and not really pumping you up for racing. Yellowcard? Who likes them? Load times are 
 pretty long...
  
  Overall:
  A huge improvement in a great series. Burnout will be a game to show off to your friends while 
 attracting fun from girls and boys!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I got GRAW the same 
 night I got this. I put down GRAW to test out Burnout Revenge and became addicted immediately. 
 It's not that GRAW sucks by any means, but what a fun, quick game to play with. 
  
  It brought back the classic Crash mode, but made it where you can actually blow up multiple times. 
 It's pretty fun and very addicting to just rush through the original crash modes but there's also 
 a new feature that allows you to just ram through traffic as long as you can. For every car you 
 wreck, you get additional nitro and run time. It's just as fun as the crash, but not as addicting 
 with the party mode.
  
  Everything else is basically old Burnout modes with new graphics. If you have a ton of money this 
 month, and want a fun party game for the 360, this is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game contributes to some of the most fun i have had gaming in my life. The amount of game 
 modes is great but you really only need race and road rage. This has everything you could ask for 
 from an arcade racer. The only problem is the takedowns are a little glitchy and it is a little 
 too easy to crash. But if oyu master the skills and turns of each track you are good to go. The 
 achievment are a little hard accept for a couple gimmes but that arcade mode is extremely long 
 which gives you hours of fun gameplay. So far this is one of the top 360 games I have played. My 
 GT is DarkLInk 090 so send me an invite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I have a xbox 360 and I have this game. It is really fun and worth the money. The first thing you 
 notice is the new feel the game has and the graphics. In burnout revenge some of the levels looked 
 gloomy (lone peak) , but now lone peak is like a real bright place compared to that one plae It think 
 is called sunshine keys (Witch feels real different this time around) . The graphics are way better. 
 I am going to play it in hd tonight, and I know it will be great. I came across a few new crash 
 events and they are pretty cool. They offer some new stuff. The scraps that come off the car are 
 so cool. I say get this game. 
  
  -JJJ13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkury622
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  I have it admit, I've been looking forward to Burnout on the 360 for quite a long time. Having 
 long since completed the game on the Xbox, I was looking forward to starting all over again on 
 the next-gen version and I have not been disappointed.
  
  Gameplay - Nothing really has changed about the gameplay in the 360 version, but I see no problems 
 on that. From the speed and handling of the cars, to the awesome track desigsn with huge jumps 
 and shortcuts, to the nice variety of modes, Burnout still has the best gameplay of any arcade 
 racer. In IMHO, it's more fun than any simulation racer as well.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are simply awesome. From the detail on the car models, to how they chip 
 and take damage during races, to the environments you're driving through. It all just all looks 
 amazing. As good as PGR3? No, but this is an arcade game so I wouldn't expect complete realism. 
 The framerate is a solid 60 FPS, with a rare dip here and there that's hardly noticeable. I love 
 driving through Central Route and looking at all the massive buildings. The detail is just amazing 
 and such a huge leap over other arcade racers like Ridge Racer 6 and Full Auto.
  
  Audio - As impressive as the visuals are, the improvement in audio easily outdoes it. Just about 
 all the sound effects are different in the 360 version. From the roaring of the car engines, to 
 the rush of silence when you boost, to the crashbreak explosions in crash mode.. everything sounds 
 more visceral.
  
  Value - As with the current generation versions, this game has a lengthy single player world tour 
 with a variety of modes including race, road rage, traffic attack, burning lap, eliminator, grand 
 prix, and crash. The online competitions are still a blast to play, and the new Live Revenge and 
 Save & Share features add more interest to both the online and offline modes. I have to say, I 
 love finally being able to watch replays of my races.
  
  I have a few minor suggestions for the game...
  1. I'd like more control over the replays, specifically 
 being able to position the camera manually around my car. Sometimes the preset camera angles don't 
 give you the best view of a big jump or crash.
  
  2. I'd really like to the see the return of pursuit mode from Burnout 2. This mode works quite 
 well for Burnout Legends on the PSP. Unfortunately, this would probably make Burnout too similar 
 to NFSMW for EA's taste.
  
  Despite those points, Burnout Revenge on the 360 is an amazing experience that any racing fan who 
 loves breakneck speed and high octane action should definitely a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of the Burnout series. I enjoyed Burnout 1 and 2 to some degree, but 
 after that I felt kind of bored with the series and never planned on buying another.
  
  Well, I broke down and bought Revenge, and after playing it for maybe 4 or 5 hours, I'm happy I 
 did.
  
  The graphics and sound for this game are great. Can't really make any negative comments on it, 
 except that I'd like to see a bit more crash damage to traffic cars rather than seeing them go 
 flying off the road.
  
  The single player provides a nice challenge level for all players. While its fairly easy to get 
 bronze on any of the levels, getting gold can be quite difficult and gives you something to work 
 for.
  
  The multiplayer interface could use a little bit of improvement in the interface, as there are 
 some unnecessary delays at the scores screens and when doing crash mode online, I felt like I was 
 waiting a bit too long for my taste. However, when doing races online, the waiting is hardly noticeable 
 (probably about on par with what PGR 3 was) .
  
  The rivalry system is nice. After taking out (or being taken out) by someone online, they become 
 your rival, and from then on it tracks who is ahead in the rivalry. It keeps track based on number 
 of takedowns in a row, so anytime the other person gets revenge and takes you down, it resets back 
 to 0. Its a great feature that adds just a little something extra to an already good game.
  
  If you like arcade racers, this is definitly the best one out there for the 360 right now. 
 It surpasses NFS: Most Wanted and Ridge Racer 6.
  
  Criterion has done a great job porting this game to next-gen and finally a game company has made 
 a port worth the $60 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  What would you do if You where driving a bus and you are stuck in Traffic and some idiot in a Red 
 Sports Car crashes into you and explodes on impact destroying every car in the intersection? I 
 would call that AWESOME!
  
  Just to be honest with everyone I really wasn't much of a fan on the first 2 Burnouts, I always 
 thought they where lacking a bit in the fun department.
  But when Burnout 3 was released I was amazed at the new crash portion of the game. Last years Burnout: 
 Revenge made it even so much more sweeter. 
  Then with the release of the PSP version Burnout: Legends I could not stop playing it, until I 
 was reprimanded at work for always playing my PSP and distracting everyone from working because 
 of their jealousy and my yelling out how awesome the crashes were.
  
  Its pretty cool to know you can take a game that is already considered Perfect in most opinions 
 and make it even better. Read all the reviews on this one, so far there isn't one person saying 
 it deserves anything below a Superb 9.
  
  It may not be the best racing game on the 360 so far, I assure you it is the very best Arcade-ish 
 racing game with the most awesome crashes you'll ever see. Watching the videos and looking at the 
 pictures are not going to deliver the experience to you. You have to drive into oncoming traffic 
 and crash your ride on that big widesrceen HDTV you just got last year. Then you'll understand 
 the coolness of Burnout.
  
  There are not that many games out there I recommend that people got out and Buy, But this is one 
 of those few that you should own.
  I rated the PS2 version a Superb 9 and the Xbox version a Superb 9.5 and even though its not the 
 same game I rated the PSP version a 9.2 because it took the best of Burnout 3 and Burnout: Revenge 
 and mixed them together.
  
  I'm rating this one a Perfect 10 because you just really can't get any better than this for this 
 type of game.
  
  Thanks for your Time, Please check out my other game reviews and remember to vote your opinion.
 
  
  I love you all
  -Crim 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Take everything Burnout Revenge had, add some new events, take out the dumb "golf" crash mode, 
 and just add more spice in difficulty and fun, and you have Burnout Revenge 360.
  
  Graphics:
  Everything about the tracks, buildings, cars, etc. are much smoother and shiner. Reflections 
 can be seen clearly in the cars. The new damage effects and loads of sparks when hitting something 
 are nice too. Oh, and the explosions are gorgeous.
  
  Sound:
  The music is the same from Revenge, which is lame, but the SFX have been upped to better sounding. 
 And in Burnout, it's all about the intensity of the sound of car crunching.
  
  Replay:
  Since I am enjoying this version better, I would say it has higher replay. Mainly not in the fact 
 that I will replay every race because I want too, but I have no problem with redoing races when 
 I screw up for some reason. 
  
  Overall:
  Definately for 360 owners. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DakoGuyver
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  I played the copy that came out for the XBox, I enjoyed it. I am not that big of a racing fan, 
 they where just not that fun for me, but I enjoyed it. And when I heard that they where making 
 one for the XBox 360, I just couldn't wait for it. If you don't already own Burnout Revenge, have 
 a 360, and like less then serious fun in your racing games, then the new Burnout Revenge will keep 
 you happy for some time. 
  
  The game starts you out with a small group of light cars, and a couple areas. Each area either 
 has a race, crash, attack, or a combo of the three. The areas are all very nicely done, with everything 
 that you would expect to see (except people, but I guess not having people on the map means you 
 don't have to do the graphic for them splatting against the car. And of course that in itself would 
 raise the ratting) . The graphics for the cars looks great to me. Watching as you ram into another 
 car and seeing bits of them and you fly off smoothly is just a thing of beauty. 
  
  Speaking of smoothly, I have yet to see the game bog down from, even during the crash junctions. 
 Of course when you car meets its end, and explodes like small nuclear bomb, the game does slow 
 down to let you see everything that happens because of it. The near blinding flash, the slow dull 
 boom of each exploding vehicle, and the dust wall the flies outward. Yes I know I shouldn't find 
 so much joy in watching it... but I do. Not even the fast paced races seem to slow down the action. 
 The only thing that really does slow down the action is the loading screen. I'm not going to beat 
 up the game because of it, but the loading screens do seem a bit long to me.
  
  The XBox Live support is nice, from what little I have seen of it. But I would suggest not going 
 into it till you have played the offline game for a bit. You will want to have unlocked some cars, 
 and played on a few of the maps. You don't want to go into a game with hardly any cars to pick 
 from, and no knowledge of the map that you are racing on. You will just be at the back of the pack, 
 waiting for the end to come. 
  
  There really isn't much to complain about, all I can say is that I wish you could modify the look 
 of the cars a bit more, and or maybe have preferences for each car so that they stay at the last 
 color that you choose for it. Some people may wish that the game had some kind of story, I really 
 don't see the need for it, or how you would do it.
  
  ~Dako Guyver 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game may be a port from the Xbox, but it sure is still one hell of a game. This game is going 
 to impress you with it's gameplay, which is sort of revamped, and the graphics and sound are outstanding.
 
  
  The graphics of this game are very smooth and shiny. When you look at the cars you will see very 
 strong colors and all the details of the car are very good. I would have to consider this games 
 graphics the same or near the same of PGR3's graphics. All of the scenery and the city buildings 
 look pretty good too. They could have had a little more work on them, but are still very nice. 
 If you are looking for this game to have great graphics, then you will get what you want. Especially 
 if you have an HDTV, you will see a lot of what this game can do.
  
  Gameplay of this game is about the same as Burnout: Revenge for the Xbox, but is slightly different. 
 I have noticed some different crashes, and it seems to play different, but in a very good way. 
 I wish it was slightly more different so it stood out more from the Xbox version, but it'll do 
 fine.
  
  Now the sound of this game is a lot better. The music (soundtracks) is still the same, and has pretty 
 horrible music. The sounds of cars crashing is new. There are quite a few more sounds, which makes 
 the crashes more fun to listen too.
  
  If you are looking for a great fun crash-racing game then get this. If you are tired of the whole 
 crash-racing thing, then stay away. You should find this game very entertaining, and it deffinatley 
 shocked me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsiper
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is great it was great on the XBOX but now it is even better on the 360!!! I am truely 
 surprised at how awsome this game is. Criterion fixed the sound that had some minor issues on the 
 xbox. The sound feels alive and wow the graphics it looks like I could reach in and grab a car 
 or get burnt from the explostions. This is definitley one of the better 360 games you have to really 
 love the extras they put in just for the 360. You can record clips of your races there are even 
 2 special aspects to the online play, the revenge and king of the session aspects of online really 
 rock just like the soundtrack. Thank you criterion and ea you did this one right!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killejo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  If you insist on realistic racing sims and true-to-life physics, or if you have played Burnout 
 Revenge on the X-Box or PS2 and are bored with it, this game is not for you. However, if you enjoy 
 arcade-style racing action (even just a little) , or love the Burnout series, this is a MUST HAVE 
 game!! The only reason I took off any points for this game is because it is basically the same 
 game they put out 6 months ago, but with better graphics and a little more to do (so you can save 
 $20 and buy the version for the old system if you want a better value, but if everyone used that 
 reasoning, Madden would decline in ratings every year) . 
  
  Anyway, this is a really great racing/action game, and the graphics are beautiful! The cars explode 
 into a million pieces, and look much better than the X-Box and PS2 versions. I loved Burnout 3, 
 but did not bother to pick up this game for my older systems because I didn't feel that the game 
 really needed an update at that time. However, I am glad I waited, and this game has renewed my 
 enthusiasm for the Burnout series! It is really fun to fly off a jump and land on top of an opponent's 
 car, especially if that same person slammed you into a cement barrier a few minutes earlier! Plus, 
 the new system allows you to immediately identify your on-line rivals that need your revenge by 
 showing a red icon above their car, so you know exactly who deserves to be smashed into a wall! 
 On top of all this, there is a very long single-player game with lots of different kinds of things 
 to do and levels to progress through to keep you busy. 
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and definitely is a true "next-gen" game despite the fact that they 
 issued a prior version on the older systems. It has the most important thing a video game can have 
 in my opinion, and that is that it is FUN right from the beginning, but doesn't lose your interest 
 in a few hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xrm150
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When I kept reading about this game and watching all the videos for it it looked okay. But after 
 playing it im disappointed. I thought that this would be a fun arcade racer. Well its anything 
 but. 
  
  The main goal in the game is to crash everyone else.... thats about it. Coming in first is second 
 in this game. Now don't get me wrong but crashing other cars is fun and looks nice... but it is 
 basically Full Auto without the guns.
  
  Graphics look great and sound is really good but if you want a arcade racer i would have to recommend 
 Ridge Racer. But if you want to bang-em up then by all means this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnkio2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  burnout revenge on xbox360 is a remake of the its original xbox360 counterpart. well its good with 
 new cars in the factory and a really mind-numbing feast for your eyes. Burnout Revenge is a game 
 ahead of its time and, as such, belongs here in the next generation. EA loses a few points because 
 this title was released last year on current-gen consoles and doesn't add much in the innovation 
 category. But Burnout Revenge proves you can successfully take a current-gen game and port it into 
 a great next-generation experience. This is, of course, something we don't want to see made into 
 a trend, and it's still difficult to recommend a purchase to anyone that already owns the current-gen 
 title. But for everyone else, Burnout Revenge is the first white-knuckle racer on the 360. Solid 
 single-player mode and excellent online and multiplayer modes will keep you coming back for a long 
 while.
  in conclusion i would like to say that every hardcore racing fans would surely love this game .. and 
 this game is worth playin.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Burnout has had a lot of good games. You would think that they would make one that isnt up to the 
 others caliber. Well, this game definatley is at that same fast paced caliber. Burnout Revenge 
 brings on fast paced races like no other.
  The single player is pretty long, which is great for people w/out Xbox Live. I also enjoyed the 
 multiplayer. There are a pretty good variety of modes. Unfortunately there arent enough maps. There 
 are more than in Full Auto, but still not enough. Lastly, the framerate gaffes a little bit here 
 and there, but nothing too serious. Overall, Burnout Revenge, being one of the first after launch 
 titles, is a stellar 360 game and is worth $60.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I think that everyone has gotten the idea that it's going to be a while (with the possible exception 
 of Elder Scrolls IV) until we see true "next gen" content on the next gen consoles. That said, 
 burnout revenge looks pretty fine on the xbox 360. This series of games has become one of my personal 
 favourites, in a genre I did not previously enjoy, in the last two years, and Revenge has not dissapointed. 
 If you liked the previous two burnout games, you will like this one, if not, expect the same. On 
 the 360 there is a definite graphical umph, but as the gamespot review indicated, some occasional 
 framerate issues that must be a result of something other than overpowering graphics. That said, 
 it's really a pleasure to smash some metal with wacky physics (anyone familiar with the series 
 understands the "light car" phenomenon is simply part of the game) and if you're not expecting 
 a racing sim, but a smashing good time (sorry about the pun) , this is for you. the 10 extra dollars 
 is a real ripoff, since this is not 10 extra bucks worth of next generation goodness... but it 
 is just 10 dollars. Still, this game is no reason to rush into buying a 360... but if you have 
 the system already and have committed the capital, it's a worthy purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LEGIONS_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  What's not to like in this game? From graphics, sound, gameplay, and tricks, this is a game that 
 belongs on the 360. 
  
  The new online tweaks add a whole lot of new standards to online play on a console, and will make 
 the experience that much better even for those who already played the game on an older gen system.
 
  
  The only drawback is if you already owned this on Xbox, then it won't offer much of anything new 
 to the table, but what it refines makes up for it.
  
  All in all, this is a must buy for online racing fans.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
