-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Burnout Paradise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/burnout5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Racing and wrecking is as thrilling as ever.
 Open-world design creates a great sense of destructive freedom.
 Showtime mode is a hoot.
 Online functionality is seamless and addicting.
 Superb visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Could have used more variety in race and event types.
 Soundtrack and DJ dialogue are awful.
 Early in the game, you'll probably be a little confused and overwhelmed by the whole thing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 4,088 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Criterion Games
Genre: Racing
Date: Jan 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Burnout Paradise includes all the fast-driving, hard-wrecking action you'd expect from a Burnout 
 game, but with a fantastic new open-world design that gives it its own stand-alone flavor. "-//W3C//DTD 
 HTML 4.01//EN"        Burnout Paradise Review for Xbox 360 
 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Get ready to smash your way through Paradise City in this video review with Alex Navarro.       
 Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Racing and wrecking is as thrilling 
 as ever  &nbsp;      Open-world design creates a great sense of destructive freedom  &nbsp;    
   Showtime mode is a hoot  &nbsp;      Online functionality is seamless and addicting  &nbsp;  
     Superb visuals.                The Bad            Could have used more variety in race and 
 event types  &nbsp;      Soundtrack and DJ dialogue are awful  &nbsp;      Early in the game, you'll 
 probably be a little confused and overwhelmed by the whole thing.                      After The 
 Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Bonus Content    Posted: Nov 
 4, 2008 1:56 pm PT      Since its release earlier this year, Criterions action-packed 
 racer has benefited from some major free updates that have added more cars, more challenges, new 
 online game modes, and even  introduced motorcycles  to the game. &nbsp;               

  Is there any developer buzz term more meaningless these days than "open-world gameplay"? Let's 
 face it, it's kind of been done to death at this point, so you have to look on with a bit of skepticism 
 when a developer touts the concept as the next big thing for its franchise. It's understandable, 
 then, if Burnout Paradise's concept freaks you out a little bit. Burnout has, by tradition, been 
 a fairly structured arcade racing game up to this point, and one would have to wonder exactly how 
 well an open environment would serve the series' crash-happy gameplay methodology. Evidently, the 
 answer is quite well. Developer Criterion has invented a world wonderfully suited to Burnout's 
 nature, a city built exclusively to cater to your destructive whims. And while a few design hitches 
 here and there get in the way now and again, by and large Burnout Paradise delivers an experience 
 that is both true to the Burnout name and wonderfully fresh-feeling all at once.  

           It might be in an open world, but Paradise is still a Burnout game through and through. 

  The star of the show is Paradise City itself. Coming complete with the titular Guns 'N Roses song 
 (because Burnout: Night Train or Burnout: Mr. Brownstone probably wouldn't have been as catchy) , 
 Paradise City is, at first blush, a pretty standard racing game city, complete with all the usual 
 landmark locations and boring background traffic. But it quickly becomes evident that Paradise 
 City is meant for a greater purpose than just being a simple city to race around in. In effect, 
 the city is a blank slate, a pristine canvas on which to paint your own obliterative masterpiece. 
 The simple act of driving aimlessly around the city constantly presents new roads, shortcuts, and 
 destructible objects for you to experience and, often, destroy. Nearly every intersection of road 
 hosts a new event of some kind, and even after you've worked your way through the game's progression 
 of driver's licenses (the only specifically linear portion of the game design) , you'll still be 
 finding new things you didn't even know were there.  

  That might sound a little overwhelming, especially if you've grown accustomed to the rather specific 
 brand of racing that Burnout has always subscribed to. And at first, it most definitely is. Though 
 the in-game tutorials do a decent job of explaining the event types and basic mechanics, you're 
 initially left to your own devices and only have the small minimap to guide you through the many 
 twists and turns of the city as you race -- unless of course you want to hit the pause button regularly 
 and use the larger map, which is a bit annoying to do. Those well accustomed to Burnout's previously 
 track-based racing model might find having to explore to find the best route to the finish a bit 
 frightening, but the good news is that it doesn't take a great deal of time to get a feel for the 
 city's various ins and outs.  

  Until that time, you will experience some trial and error (with a heavier focus on the error) , 
 but the funny thing about that is that while you may initially find yourself failing races, it's 
 not often you have to just go back and keep doing that same race again and again. The focus of 
 Burnout Paradise isn't on doing specific events so much as it is about doing whatever you feel 
 like. If you fail a race, odds are that there are roughly a dozen starting points for other races 
 near the finish line of that previous race, and unless you've done them all, you can just hit up 
 any one of them to get another notch on your license. Toward the very end of the game, when you've 
 bested the bulk of the game's events, you may find yourself lamenting the lack of a quick return 
 feature to get back to a race's starting point. But for the majority of the game, it's not really 
 an issue.  

  It's a strange design to get used to initially, but once you do, it becomes incredibly rewarding. 
 You can spend hours at a time just dawdling around the city and still make forward progress within 
 the game. Don't feel like racing? Just go break through shortcut gates or bust up billboards, which 
 are tallied up as you break each one. Or, track down one of the cars you unlocked on the road and 
 take it down to add it to your collection. Or, you can opt to pick a road and attempt to "own" 
 it. There are two types of events associated with each of the major roads in the game. Time trials 
 are as you'd expect -- you simply start at one end of the road and start driving down it, attempting 
 to get the fastest time you can. Secondly, there are showtime events, which are the game's effective 
 replacement for the crash mode found in previous installments of the series. Whereas crash mode 
 was sort of like a puzzle mode in the way it made you create elaborate car crashes out of painstakingly 
 built traffic designs, showtime is the polar opposite. These are elaborate car crashes born from 
 little more than a bunch of nearby cars and your ability to control what is, in essence, a sentient 
 car wreck.  

  In a word, showtime mode is absurd. The goal is similar to crash mode in that you're aiming to 
 create as much damage as humanly possible, with various types of cars offering up different cash 
 bonuses that feed into your final score. All the while, you can move your busted husk of a car 
 around by pressing the boost button, which causes you to bounce around like a rubber ball. Again, 
 totally absurd, but also totally awesome. It might lack the puzzling nature of the crash mode, 
 but for pure visceral thrill and laughs-a-minute wrecking, showtime mode delivers in spades. It 
 would have been nice if Criterion had found a way to have both the crash mode and showtime mode 
 coexisting, as neither would make a particularly good replacement for the other; but on its own, 
 showtime is a great deal of fun.  

           This game contains some of the most downright erotic car crashes not featured in a J. G. 
 Ballard novel.      

  A number of other elements from previous Burnouts are also missing or altered here. The lack of 
 aftertouch (the mechanic that let you steer your wreck into opponents during races and take them 
 out) is a real bummer, as it makes wrecking during races a pure nuisance rather than an opportunity 
 for more destructive glee. Traffic checking is absent as well, though it isn't sorely missed. The 
 racing artificial intelligence has seen a bit of tweaking here and there. You still get the sense 
 of rubber banding that the series has always employed, but as the game goes on and the racers get 
 tougher, your opponents become more aggressive and don't just tank right before the finish line. 
 By and large, the game is actually a bit easier than the last couple of Burnout games, but the 
 challenge toward the later stages of the game definitely ramps up significantly.  

  The racing itself is as exciting as it's ever been. Standard races are intense and thrilling, road 
 rage events are full of wreckful delights, stunt runs have you jumping, barrel rolling, and flat 
 spinning all over the place, marked man races are tense fights to the finish line as multiple enemy 
 cars bop you around trying to wreck you beyond repair, and burning routes have you taking on challenging 
 time trials to earn new cars. If there's any flaw to be noted with the core game design, it's maybe 
 that there aren't enough event types. There's no shortage of events and random stuff to do, but 
 running the same event types, and even some of the same specific events again and again, can grow 
 a bit tiresome after a while. After each license upgrade, all the events you've raced (except for 
 burning routes) reset, so you end up doing a lot of them over and over again. This wouldn't even 
 be an issue if there were a greater variety of event types, but as it stands, there are only those 
 few, and you may wear out on doing races and marked man events again and again.  

  If you do get a bit bored with the single-player action, you can always hop online and race against 
 others. Doing so is quite seamless. Simply press right on the D pad to bring up the online menu, 
 and then decide if you want to join up with other existing games or create your own. Online in 
 Burnout Paradise is quite a different animal than that of previous Burnout games. You don't just 
 hop into a lobby menu and pick races to engage in. Instead, the city itself is the lobby, and while 
 the host decides what he wants to unleash upon you, you can just mess around and do whatever you 
 like.  

  When hosting, you have the ability to both race and take on challenges. Races are of your own design, 
 with you setting the beginning and ending points anywhere in the city. Challenges are set, and 
 there are literally hundreds of them. The trick is that there are a limited number of challenges 
 depending on how many players are in a group. There are 50 challenges for two players, 50 for eight 
 players, and 50 for each denomination in between. This means that once you've exhausted all the 
 challenges for two players, you'll have to get three, then four, and so on and so on if you want 
 to complete them all. That might prove unwieldy for those who don't have a lot of friends online 
 to play the game, but at least the challenges themselves are creative and fun. The challenges range 
 from competitive bouts of drifting, crashing, and jumping to cooperative versions of all the same 
 stuff. It's an inventive mode to be sure and an exceptionally fun one when you've got a good crew 
 of friends to play with.  

  It also bears mention that while online, you can use the PlayStation Eye or Xbox Live Vision Camera 
 to take shots of your rivals online. When you take down a rival player that has a camera hooked 
 up, the cam will take a mugshot of that player's reaction. It's kind of a neat feature that, unfortunately, 
 will probably be abused by all manner of nudity over the course of the game's lifespan, but that's 
 inevitably what happens when you let people do things with cameras.  

  Paradise's visual presentation is precisely the kind of top-notch work you've come to expect from 
 the series. Once again, the game sets a standard for how a sense of speed should feel in an arcade 
 racer. This game is lightning fast, and the frame rate in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 of the game holds up regardless of the chaos onscreen. The car crashes in this game are absolutely 
 fantastic, thanks to some dynamite particle effects and camera work in each and every mangled wreck. 
 Cars deform to wonderful effect, scrunching up like an accordion in head-on collisions and bending 
 and twisting nicely in other situations. The only thing that continues to look a little weird is 
 the total lack of drivers in all the cars around the city. It's understandable that Criterion would 
 leave out mangled corpses or what have you for the sake of an E 10+ rating, but it still looks 
 strange seeing all these disembodied cars driving around like a society of Turbo Teens.  

  It's also worth noting that Burnout Paradise is a game that commands an HD display, and not just 
 for full graphical effect. On the standard-definition TVs we tried, we found the minimap to be 
 borderline useless unless we squinted like crazy. On an HD set, the minimap is detailed and blown 
 up enough to rely on, but when playing in standard definition, it simply became a hassle to use. 

           Showtime mode won't make you forget about crash mode, but it's a lot of goofy fun in its 
 own right.      

  If you're looking for differences between the two versions, you won't find many. The PlayStation 
 3 version looks maybe a hair crisper than the 360 version, but that's about the only visual difference 
 to speak of. On the flipside, the 360 version has a slight edge in that you can use custom soundtracks 
 to drown out the miserable collection of songs EA has amassed for the game. There are a few highlights 
 that fit well with the theme of high-energy racing, but the vast bulk of the music consists of 
 irritating modern rock that's about as ill-fitting as humanly possible. Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend" 
 might, itself,  be  a car wreck of a song, but it doesn't fit the vibe of the game at all. Add 
 in the collection of original Criterion-produced guitar rock tracks from previous Burnout games 
 that sound like they were culled from Joe Satriani's nightmares, and you have a pretty unpleasant 
 musical experience all around. The annoying radio DJ who pops up now and again to give hints, mock 
 you obnoxiously when you fail, and make one glib comment or another about something going on in 
 the city doesn't help matters. He's merely an annoyance that probably wouldn't even be worth mentioning 
 save for the fact that you cannot turn him off. At least the sound effects are still top-flight 
 in every regard. Crashes thunder, engines roar, and tires screech with terrific clarity all throughout 
 the game. If you've got a surround-speaker setup, it's all the better.  

  It's entirely possible that some people might not enjoy Burnout Paradise's significant shift in 
 direction, specifically those who simply wanted another incremental Burnout sequel. Indeed, Paradise 
 is anything but incremental, and while it might prove a polarizing experience for some, most will 
 likely appreciate what a radical overhaul this game really is. The open-world design isn't just 
 a lazy gimmick -- it's a wonderfully executed concept that doesn't rob the game of the series' most 
 beloved tenet: the act of driving fast and wrecking hard. If you're one of the people who tried 
 the Burnout Paradise demo and formed a rather negative opinion of the game, you're not alone. But 
 if you have any affection for the series, you really owe it to yourself to give the full game a 
 look. The demo did little to truly represent what a superbly fun racer this game can be.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (242 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  I can't get enough of this game. The free roaming is fantastic. The graphics are great. The action 
 has a nice mix of destruction and speed.
  
  I'm not a big fan of racing games, but this game just keeps me smiling. Some of the contests are 
 frustrating, but if you're persistent you'll learn the little tricks needed to succeed.
  
  The biggest reason to play this game is the fact it is $20 now! Best $20 I've spent on a video 
 game in a long long time.
  
  If you haven't played a racer in awhile and are interested in testing out the genre again, this 
 is a perfect place to start. You shouldn't be disappointed.
  
  Graphics = 9.0
  
  Great graphics, great effects. Absolutely no compaints in that department.
  
  Sound = 8.0 
 
  
  Some sounds get old after hearing them 1000 times, but the music selection is great.
  
  Gameplay = 9.0
  
  See above
  
  
  I haven't tested the multi-player yet, since I'm 
 certain I'll be getting wrecked by people playing a lot more then me, but that will be discussed 
 in a later update.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  A couple of weeks ago, two friends came to my place on a saturday to kill some time with gaming. 
 They brought with them a great racegame, Burnout paradise. I didn't know this one, yes I knew the 
 burnout series stands for a lot of destruction, but that's about it.
  
  Wow, what a game. You can do everything you want in a racegame, in an open world. And in racing 
 terms, I mean everything, like stunts, jumps, crashes, races, and also just some driving. It's 
 like GTA 4 without the missions. Just mindless fun, you encounter some "missions", like driving 
 through billboards and find secret roads. Just plain, great fun.
  
  And that is my problem with this game. When everything is new, it is amazing, and crashing is indeed 
 great fun. But after a while, when you get used to everything, well, at least I got bored. Because 
 the objectives are not that interesting.
  
  The things that I disliked about the game:
  
  -Too fast: This doesn't necessarily have to be a bad thing, but, apart from being not realistic, 
 when you are participating in a race, the chance you crash because you didn't see a wall or building 
 coming because of the speed is very high. But maybe I'm more Forza-minded, you obviously can't 
 compare these game with each other. Also:
  
  -The races are very difficult, because you have to choose your own direction. It happened a lot 
 that I took a wrong turn, and finished last, while being the whole race at first! And pausing the 
 game 10 times during a race to find the right direction on the map does not work for me.
  
  No "real"cars: Where are the audi's, bmw's, porsche's etc.?
  
  Of course, there are good things 
 about this game as well:
  
  + Graphics are great, cars look good, and no slow down at high speed.
  
  +Adding the motorcycles 
 is a neat thing
  
  + Crashes are great, and save this game
  
  + Multiplayer works very well. I had some great time crashing with other gamers. 
  
  I tried 
 to get into the game this afternoon, but I couldn't do it. I think I'll check out Need for Speed: 
 Undercover, maybe that's more my thing.
  
  Once again: A good, but not great racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apequest
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best games i have ever played. it was worth the 20.00. i liked it i bought it 
 twice because my friend broke it so i bought it again. this game was good without the add-ons. 
 when they add the updates and add-ons it made this game so good. i haven't gotten all the dlc but 
 i am saving up for them. the only pack i got was party pack and legendary cars. they where so good 
 but i want the boost special, big surf island, and cops and robbers. the best event i have ever 
 done would be stunt ron my record is about 1,700,000.
  my two favorite cars are the 88 special and night hawker. the other two cars suck in that pack 
 although the bootlegger was pretty good.
  i had to put the 800 charecters so sdjk sbsbhcsac jhc sc sch sac sadk sdkasad scsc sd sad vsa ds 
 daahsd sad sad fsdbhfsabf k ssh v sav sda shfsa jbfsa fas ds s fsdjg fsjf f 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is an amazing racing game. It's one of my favorite racing games for my Xbox360 
 and I gotta say EA games and Criterion did a great job. When you start up the game you have a choice 
 to go wherever you like and I was amazed on how well EA did it. Now Burnout is all about Arcade 
 style racing while crashing into other cars. They were still able to keep the classic gameplay while 
 adding in some new things as well. There are some new modes you get. Like Stunt Run where you have 
 to get as many points by driving around the city like crashing into signs and getting big jumps 
 as well. You also get Marked Man were you have to avoid other drivers while trying to get to the 
 goal before your car gets wrecked. You also get a liscene when you win a race or complte an event. You 
 also get cars by destorying the same type of car that you need to get. The online is nearly flawless. I 
 rarley find any lag or slowdown. You can play with up to 8 people online and you can either just 
 crash into each other or race for worldwide rankings. You can also complete for medals as well. It's 
 challenging but it dosen't really give you any achivements. The music is awesome. When you turn on 
 the game you hear Guns'N'Roses Paradise City. It's that epic. With a few other awesome songs as well. Overall 
 Burnout Paradise is a great racing game. It has nice graphics, Some excellent downloadable content 
 as well, Some awesome music and very smooth controlls. But the bad sides are that Crash mode has 
 been replaced by Showtime mode. Which is fun for a few days but it's not as simple enough, Also some 
 of the rewards are pointless and the Traffic Check dosen't work as much as it used to back in Burnout 
 Revenge. But Burnout Paradise is an excellent racing game and it should be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbman83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  I STOLE this game for $20 at Target. The graphics, the wrecks are pretty good (bumped up to excellent, 
 if you do "showtime" (which is always an option) ) , and the multiplayer is seamless (one minute your 
 offline, the next you cna be online racing friends, with just a couple of buttons) . All in all, 
 this is one of the best street racing games I've ever played. The first real drawback I ran into 
 was that you could not play split screen multiplayer. That was really a letdown for me and my brother-in-law 
 who like to play against each other on both split screen and live. The second, less serious drawback, 
 is that you can't upgrade the cars. Sure you can modify their paint, and you can unlock better 
 versions of each car, but you can't change the body kits, no upgrading the engine, no changing 
 spoilers, etc.... Things that NFS fans grew used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlopMeDo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Graphics: 9.7/10
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Online: 9.1/10
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  
  
  Let's start with the good stuff:
  The game has the best graphics I've 
 ever seen on a racing game the new genre is great!! The controls are awesome and the feel of it 
 is just perfect.
  I love it how there's no rush to do races!
  
  Now the bad stuff:
  I only got one problem with this game. I like it how you choose how you're gonna get to your destination, 
 but you'd have to know the streets and navigate, right? The game gives you a compass to lead you 
 in the right direction but you'd still need to look at the map to see all the turns right? RIGHT! 
 But the game gives you a tiny tiniest map I've ever seen!! It can get slightly annoying some times 
 but it's downright HALARIOUS when you stare at the map and don't look on the road and you smash 
 into a wall!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  
  Burnout paradise is a solid racer. It has all the right stuff to make it fun. Only that it can 
 get difficult mainly due to annoyances along the way.
  
  First of all the story is cool, but all you do is win events to better your license grade. Theres 
 no story line like a Need for Speed game, so the desire to keep going and get the elite license 
 may not be there considering you do a lot of similar events more than once.
  
  Next are the takedown battles, which forces you to smash other vehicles. the wrecks look amazing 
 but its hard to keep one eye on the car your chasing, one eye on where the road is, one eye on 
 whats coming up ahead, and one eye on the map. A lot of times you will smash into something because 
 you drove into it not the AI actually actually made you smash.
  
  The racing can also be difficult because when your flying down the road, its very easy to wreck 
 your car or go to fast and miss your turn. and with no ability to restart a race when you know 
 your going to lose, thats kind of annoying.
  
  IN the end though, Burnout Paradise is a quality game and racing fans should definately play it
 
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amz1217
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Well let's get this out of the way, burnout paradise rules completely!!!! 
  
  The graphics are out of this world with amazing attention to detail, realistic crashes that adapt 
 to the area of the car hit, challenging AI, superb online modes, great replay value, consistent 
 framerate, loads of achievements or trophies (360 and PS3) , superb 8 player local party mode, extra 
 in game objectives such as setting record times on certain roads, smashing into billboards, crashing 
 down gates, the inclusion of motorbikes into a car game, the great choice of cars and bikes, customizable 
 characters, the use of playstation eyetoy or xbox live vision camera, the robust amount of features 
 and last but not least THE INSANE SPEED BURNOUT IS KNOW FOR!!!!!
  
  I mean what more can you want from a game like this, all of the points i have expressed above are 
 only half the great things to do in this game, the choice of music is once again EA trademark from 
 rock, folk, pop and lots more and the DLC available online from motorbikes, game modes, legendary 
 cars and loads more. 
  
  But 1 thing that prevents me from gicing this game a 10/10 is not including split screen action, 
 the party mode is those type of pass the controller around where you and friends can race to get 
 the best lap time, or gte the most takedowns etc, althought i'm not denieng party mode is rubbish, 
 it's still a slight dissapointment they abandined it's oringnal split screen action. But nonetheless 
 the good stuff far outweight the 1 bad thing i can think of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise takes all the great features of the previous games and packs them into an open-ended 
 world were you can choose at your leisure what you want to do and when you want to do it.
  
  At it's core what we have here is an arcade racer that excells in flashy wrecks and insanely 
 high speed action. Right from the get-go you can explore the entire city and surrounding moutainous 
 area looking for sick jumps, sinuous shortcuts and amazing scenic overlooks. You could literally 
 spend several days just crusing the city looking for all the cool jumps and shortcuts with no pressure 
 to participate in the ladder-like progression of the main game.
  
  When you do get ready to compete you can select from over 100 variations of 5 basic events: Races, 
 road rage (the object is to just wreck as many opponents as possible) , marked man (you must get 
 to the finish like before being wrecked 3 times by AI opponents) , stunt runs (complete enough stunts 
 to rack up a certian number of points) or burning routes (time trials for each of the cars you 
 accumulate) . The city is full of many variations of each of the 5 basic event types. Completing 
 a certain number of them will advance you to the next license level which resets all the events 
 so you can do them again if you like. 
  
  The object of the game is to simply complete enough events (of your choosing) to advance your license 
 level to the highest level. As you complete events new cars will unlock and be added to your collection. 
 The Ultimate goals is to complete all 120 events and unlock all the cars. 
  
  If you are not a car buff you might not be tempted to keep playing as the core group of event types 
 can start to feel repetitive after a while. But if you do like cars and crazy wrecks and racing 
 at insane speeds make you giddy, you'll love the accessible controls and pure adrenaline rush the 
 events give you. 
  
  In between events you are free to just keep on exploring the city. There are a decent number of 
 achievements setup to reward you for just poking around. Smashing gates and billboards, power parking, 
 barrel rolling off jumps and a bunch of other crazy stunts will reward you with achievements. 
 
  
  When all that feels old you can press a button on the D-pad and hop right into a multiplayer game 
 without even slowing down. Multiplayer events are similar to the single player but are tracked 
 and awarded separately.
  
  You really need to enjoy arcade racers and collecting cars to get the most out of this game. But 
 the simplicity in it's design and the lack of pressure to to adance to the next level make this 
 game a joy to play around in. Graphically it'll stun you with changing day/night cycles and weather. 
 Most cars can be repainted in a number of different schemes and colors making customizibility a 
 good part of the appeal. 
  
  And the best part is you can get all of this for $20 these days. Coupled with a few free and a 
 few pay vehicles (DLC) you get a real nice package for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  Positive
  +Being able to roam around the city
  +Racing is fast, fun and furious
  +Nice graphics
  +Online is pretty cool
  
  Negetive
  -Gets old after a while
  -No split 
 screen
  -Weak audio and annoying commentator
  
  Burnout brang its second for the next gen back in early 2008. Burnout Revenge was a decent racing 
 game and this time Paradise was hyped to be a promiseing title as well.
  
  Burnout does bring some changes this time, in fact your now availalbe to free roam Paradise City 
 which is pretty cool, and it means that you don't have to compete agaisnt other players all the 
 time. Also going online is lots of fun, you can play up to 8 players and just do whatever you want 
 if it is racing or just exsploring the city and beating some challenges together.
  The gameplay is still as fast and furious it always has been and believe me, you can go really 
 fast in in this game and with so much traffic about its really griping to be going at such speed 
 and not even crashing. Thats probably because of the sharp control in Burnout Paradise. The down 
 sides is that after about a week you've probabaly completed all the races and unlocked all of the 
 cars, so it is quite a short game and while online is fun it can get old after a while. Also there's 
 no offline multiplayer to speak of.
  
  The graphics are great, Paradise City looks fantastic with nice lighting and the cars also have 
 alot of detail on them. Its also noteing that while going at such an alarming rate the frame rate 
 bearly even takes a dip at all.
  
  Burnout Paradise is a game that is very fun at first can start to get old after a few weeks, its 
 not the best racing game ever made but thats not saying taht you wont have a lot of fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroididiot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I haven't played a lot of racing games that have kept me coming back for more. I was 
 skeptical about Burnout: Paradise, to say in the least. However, I gave it a try, and I have mixed 
 feelings. To start off, the game is just plain out fun. It is very accessible, whether you are 
 racing, driving other cars off the road, or getting pursued like something out of a James Bond 
 car scene. You drive around in an open-world-style city, entering events. The sense of speed is 
 terrific also. It's quite impressive when you are whipping through the streets at insane speeds. 
 However, it is often too short lived. I know Burnout is known for its legendary crash sequences, 
 and for the first few hours it offer for a couple of great laughs and "oh snap!" moments. But then 
 it gets annoying. You can never maintain speed long enough to quench your adrenaline. And if you 
 do, you usually end up missing a turn in a race because it came up too fast, and you are pretty 
 much screwed and have to restart. Which brings me to another problem. Restarting is no easy matter. 
 What you have to do to quite an event is keep your car still for a few seconds and drive all the 
 way back to where the event was. I makes for some boring cruises through Paradise City- which is 
 a great city, but gets really, really old. I wanted more variety in the scenery. However, the graphics 
 are superb and really bring the whole city to life. There are also plenty of cars to unlock, and 
 even motorcycles in the most recent (free) update. The game has a lot to offer, problems aside, 
 and you feel really impressive when you can manage a race at top speed without crashing. Road Rage 
 is a favorite mode of mine, the goal being to run a certain amount of cars off the road. And, like 
 I've said, the game, flaws or no flaws, has a really magical draw to it. It's so easy to just sit 
 down and play. I enjoy this game a lot, and any racing game fan should try it out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquinas
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  If I'd reviewed this game when I first got it last year I would have panned it - 6.0 *maybe*. At 
 that point it seemed too difficult, too confusing and way too complicated for an arcade racing 
 game. After the initial novelty of driving around and seeing the (admittedly very cool) cityscape 
 the game ground to a halt pretty quickly for me. The instant gratification of previous Burnout 
 games was almost totally absent. Driving around looking for Road Rage games? Time consuming and 
 annoying. Finally finding a Road Rage game and then 'losing' because you came in second? Supremely 
 frustrating. Not being able to re-play the race without finding your way all the way back to the 
 starting intersection?  aggravating.
  
  But that was then...
  
  Since the series of updates culminating the 1.7 release - and including 
 such great add-on's as the Party Pack and Legendary Cars - the game has totally transformed in 
 my mind:
  
  More cars, varied game play - totally expanded online play!
  Party pack - multi-player mini-games!
  Motorcycles!
  
  And the core game play has been improved 
 (in my experience) as well. The difficulty level has been ratcheted down a notch. This wasn't a 
 major complaint of mine before - but this improvement definitely ups the games "pick up and play" 
 value. The map is much easier to use as are the menus. And the coup de grace? The option to re-start 
 an event - either in-event or immediately following! I realize, from watching some Crash TV - that 
 this feature required some significant humility from the Howard Roarke-ish development team. So 
 on behalf of all us lowly gamers out here a hearty "Thank You!".
  
  Finally, the promise of future enhancements - most notably Paradise Island - make this a game that 
 keeps on giving. I'm totally hooked. Good work, guys. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64316431
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 3:16 am PT
Review:  Best Features: An open-world governed under Burnout rules, insanely good crash physics, large car 
 roster and a plethora of things to do, amazing online features.
  
  Worst Features: Navigation can be difficult, not being able to restart events, no Crash Mode (but 
 still has a great replacement)
  
  Ah... Burnout. A tried and true friend of the racing genre. Arcade racing got a shot of adrenaline 
 in 2001 when the first Burnout game made the scene with its original risk-reward boost system and 
 crash dynamics. Since then the series has evolved and changed without hurting the basic underbelly 
 of the game (even if Revenge did introduce Traffic Checking which went against the idea of dodging 
 traffic) . In the third game, players were introduced to "Takedowns" and the game became more than 
 just dodging traffic but also about causing your opponents to wreck. Paradise is the first major 
 evolution of the series since Takedown and I think its a bright new direction for the series.
 
  
  Graphics: 8
  Paradise City is a great setting for the game. As you drive by the shorelines of Big Surf or tour 
 the northern regions of Crystal Summit, you always get a feel that you are there in Paradise City. 
 The visual ambiance is graceful yet exciting at the same time. The ocean shimmers under the bright 
 sunlight while objects in the environment throw realistic shadows. Of course... you don't have time 
 to gander if you're going to charge down the road at 190 MPH while trying to get that next Takedown. 
 The sense of speed Burnout has always done well is present here and the crashing is better than 
 ever (with all sorts of realistic deformation of the vehicles when they plow into something) . Maybe 
 the graphics aren't "perfect" (they are a little average for an Xbox 360 game) but it does the 
 job and it feels real enough for me.
  
  Sound/Music: 8
  As you scrape and slam your way through Paradise City, you're treated to the sounds of grinding 
 metal and tires squealing over the pavement. The sound effects are good here but aren't as diverse 
 as I'd expect (every crash sounds the same for the most part) . But for what is there, its good. 
 The music lineup in the game is well-ranged (even if you don't care for Avril Lavigne... gotta love 
 "Paradise City" by Guns n' Roses) and if you don't want to listen to any of the licensed music, 
 Criterion has included a library of music from the first two Burnout games as well as previously 
 unreleased original tracks that didn't make the cut for Burnout 3. DJ Atomika (from EA's snowboard 
 showcase SSX3) provides the voice of Paradise City (and he's far less annoying than Stryker from 
 Burnout 3, providing insightful comments and otherwise knowing how to not bother the player) . The 
 lineup of licensed tracks could be better but since this is an Xbox 360 game, you can make your 
 own soundtrack if the "EA Trax" don't do the job for you.
  
  Control: 10
  What is Burnout without its excellent control? If you've played this series before the control 
 is as good as ever here. The physics of the cars has been improved but it doesn't taint the top-notch 
 arcade controls the Burnout series has always gotten right. Drifting is easy and stylish as its 
 always been and dodging traffic is quick and agile. Each car handles differently now based on what 
 kind of car it is but the handling model itself remains vigilant and quality. New to the series 
 is the "E-Brake" which allows you to sharply spin your car to turn it around in a hurry or throw 
 it off a ramp in a wild spin. Stunts could be a little easier but with practice you can still pull 
 off some crazy tricks. Criterion Games understands what makes a great racing engine and the way 
 the game handles is the best example.
  
  Gameplay: 9 (I'd really give it a 9.5 but all scores are kept as whole numbers)
  Burnout's gameplay 
 has always focused on simplicity. The idea of doing what "feels right" is the goal of a Burnout 
 game. You dodge traffic, drive in the wrong direction and drift around corners in an effort to 
 push energy into your boost meter. Now with the open-world city that is Paradise City, you can 
 do all these things without being forced into the confines of a race; allowing you to drive like 
 a maniac at your own leisure. Events in this game are launched from any of the 120 traffic lights 
 (or toll booths if you're on the freeway) in the world. Familiar events include Race and Road Rage 
 while new events such as Marked Man (one car trying to make it to the finish line before its destroyed 
 by 3 marauding vehicles) and Stunt Run join the catalog. The Aggression system that was introduced 
 in Burnout 3 is still present, meaning attacking and causing your opponents to to crash earns you 
 boost. Each car in the game also has a unique "Burning Route" time trial challenge that can be 
 used to earn upgraded versions in your garage. The cars in the game run the gamut from speed demons 
 to Takedown-focused heavyweights with new boost categorizations that qualify the means by which 
 a car earns boost (Speed cars bring back Burnout Boost Chaining from Burnout 2 and Dominator and 
 earn the most boost through effective driving skills, Stunt cars use a new kind of Burnout meter 
 that earns boost by pulling off jumps and other daredevil antics while Aggression vehicles use 
 a Burnout 3/Revenge-style meter that ramps up the most amount of boost from attacking opponents 
 and driving aggressively, growing after getting Takedowns) . Aside from racing, there are numerous 
 objects in the world such as gate and billboard smashes that can be hunted down and collected to 
 100% Paradise City. Drive-Thrus provide quick fixes for your car such as instant boost refills 
 or quickie paint changes to keep the streaming, open-world nature of the game intact. The amount 
 of stuff to do in Paradise City is staggering (made even deeper by the lush online mode) and should 
 keep you busy for a long time. Amidst all the praise, however, there are some tiny problems. Criterion's 
 focus on making the game as streaming and open-world as possible has caused a few woes. You cannot 
 restart any event as that would require the game to reload the world every time (so you either 
 have to finish or stop driving to leave an event as well as driving back to stoplight that triggered 
 the event to retry it) . This can be a hassle if you lose an event and have to work your way all 
 the way back to the beginning (but this is counterpointed by the fact that no matter where you 
 are you're always near another event, which was the intended goal of not being able to restart 
 but it would have been nice all the same) . In addition, the game's navigation can be tough to comprehend 
 at first (giving you only a compass during race events to get you to your destination and no navigation 
 whatsoever in Freeburn) but learn the city and it'll click eventually (though getting lost isn't 
 impossible) . Finally, Criterion cut out a traditional Crash mode (where you enter an intersection 
 with the goal of destroying as much traffic as possible) but replaced it with the new "Showtime" 
 mode (where your car becomes a bouncing superball of destruction) . While not "quite" Crash mode, 
 the new Showtime mode is no longer a sit-and-watch affair as Crash Mode was so if you were the 
 kind who didn't enjoy a brief amount of driving followed by a long period of watching the destruction 
 this should do you fine. All told Burnout Paradise is still an amazing game despite its flaws.
 
  
  Replay Value: 10
  If you can get over the hurdles of navigating the city and not being able to restart any event, 
 Burnout Paradise is an astoundingly replayable game. With over 70 cars to earn (both standard and 
 upgraded models) , 120 events to find and complete, numerous smashes and jumps to locate and 320 
 online challenges to fulfill; the game keeps it coming as long as you've got the time to dig in. 
 The city itself can just be a blast to explore in an effort to look for shortcuts or secrets (there 
 are a couple unmapped parts of the city that can be found with a little exploring) . Each street 
 also uplinks to a network of times and damage reports via Xbox LIVE allowing you to beat road-specific 
 time trials or Showtime mode records on each and every street in Paradise. The online mode integration 
 is probably the smoothest I've ever come across. To go online you simply tap right on the d-pad 
 to load up the "Easy Drive" menu and go into Freeburn online with no middle-man elements such as 
 lobbies. Up to 8 Burners can inhabit a single Paradise City at a time and depending on the number 
 of players in the room at a given time, a list of online challenges opens up (such as being able 
 to jump over a specific bridge or boost for a certain distance) . Hook up a LIVE Vision Camera to 
 add the ability to take pictures of yourself whenever you're taken down online as well as track 
 rivals who have taken you down over your online career. Racing is the only competitive online mode 
 (at the moment, this may change eventually) and as a host you can set up your own route around 
 the city with up to 16 checkpoints. Given the vast online options, Burnout Paradise may very well 
 be the single best online game on the Xbox 360.
  
  Overall: 9
  I really want to give this game a 10 (but there are flaws that must be taken into account if I'm 
 to give a balanced review) . The online is fantastic and the offline game is just as deep and enriching. 
 Despite minor qualms with the game's choices as far as navigation goes (it is Criterion's first 
 fray into the open-world style gameplay so they have time to improve) , Burnout Paradise still keeps 
 the Burnout spirit alive and well with simplicity and depth co-existing to create an evolved racing 
 experience. This is the proper evolution of the Burnout series and I must say that it has stolen 
 the spot of "best racing game" from Rush 2 in my book. If you're looking for a new racing game 
 in your life, I can heartily recommend Burnout Paradise. Hit the streets and cause trouble in Paradise... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieforever
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 12, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  My favorite xbox game was and is still Burnout Revenge, or Burnout 3 (they are basically the same 
 game) the Burnout series made the usually boring racing genre exciting, but this game sucks. The 
 open world feature is a detrement to every aspect of the game. Burnout doesn't work well with 90 
 degree corners such as the ones that join 2 intersections in this game, you cannot turn that well 
 going 200 mph. having to get directions for a race is the dumbest thing, i lost many races because 
 I missed my exit on the highway. That is total **** It is impressive graphically, but it is too 
 cluttered for a racing game, obsticals only present themselves out of the clutter when it is too 
 late and they half-assed the traffic check feature this time. I found it easier to avoid crashing 
 driving into oncoming traffic because it was easier to see the headlights than the tailights. I 
 hope they don't make the same mistakes for the next burnout game, and return the series to its 
 previous glory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I have always hated racing games. I believe that racing games were among the least fun games ever 
 created, right alongside sports and fighting games. However, since Madden 09 proved me wrong about 
 sports games and Soul Calibur IV very nearly proved me wrong about fighting games, I figured it 
 was time to give racing games a try. So I went and bought Grid and it was freaking horrible. I 
 returned it within a week. After that, my friend convinced me that Burnout would be different. 
 So I approached this game with a great deal of pessimism only to be slapped in the face by the 
 sheer greatness of the title. Burnout has more than proved me wrong about racing games.
  
  Rather than assess every way in which this game succeeds, I prefer to analyze the ways in which 
 it deviated from the original racing formula, and how these deviations make it an overall better 
 racing title. I'll do it by list too, just to make it organized. I see the following as the greatest 
 parts of Burnout Paradise:
  
  1) No More Laps: Perhaps the greatest aspect of Burnout is the fact that it lacks any kind of laps. 
 Whereas most arcade racers having you driving in circles, Burnout has you driving a more or less 
 straight course to the finish. This means that the coarse will constantly alter, and you cant rely 
 on familiar patterns to save you. It also makes map memorization a good idea.
  
  2) Good Car Controls: The fact of the matter is that in Burnout you are going really freaking fast. 
 I cant remember any racing game where I felt as though I were flying along the road like I do in 
 Burnout. However, in previous games, going very fast usually meant only one thing. Spinning out 
 of control the second you even tried to nudge in a new direction. Burnout, however, does away with 
 that, allowing precision turning even when going at breakneck speeds. 
  
  3) An Open World: Whereas most arcade racers have you going through menu after menu to get to your 
 races, this game simply has you drive up to an intersection and press two buttons to begin the 
 challenge. Even better, is that not every challenge is a race. You can go between racing, stunt 
 runs, road rage (probably my personal favorite) , Marked Man, and Burning Routes. This offers a 
 great deal of variation and keep the game feeling fresh. Also, the world presents alot to find, 
 in the way of Billboards, Super Jumps, and of course, short cuts. You can spend a ton of time just 
 driving around trying to find all of the easter eggs in this game.
  
  While those key deviations from the original arcade formula are what separate the game from the 
 rest of the pack, the game obviously wouldnt be very successful if it didnt follow certain traditions. 
 The game looks absolutely gorgeous, from the cars to the scenery, and unlike some racing games, 
 you can usually see an obstacle before you are plowing face first into it. My only small gripe 
 about the visuals is that during the night-time races, visibility decreases enough to be annoying, 
 so until the new Feb 6th update (where they promised to fix that problem) you might want to toggle 
 the time of day setting to permanently be mid-day.
  
  The last award I will give to this game is great pacing. This game starts off easy enough for a 
 beginner to the genre to be able to pick up the controller and get his first one or two licenses. 
 However, as you progress to the later parts of the game (get higher level licenses that is) the 
 races and other challenges become more difficult, and by the end you are really struggling. I have 
 only achieved a B grade license myself, so I havent encountered any really difficult races, but 
 I know that by the time I reach my Burnout Elite license, I will be begging for mercy. But that's 
 how it should be. If the game was easy from start to finish, it wouldnt be any fun.
  
  So would I recommend this game? In short: Hell yes. This game is everything racing should have 
 always been. By bucking certain traditions of the arcade racing genre, Burnout blasts out of the 
 pack. I can only hope that other racers follow in this game's amazing footsteps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARGiggly
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  Lets get to the point- the things it does well is the fact that Paradise city and its array of 
 cars are beautifully modelled and have wonderful graphics, lighting and textures. The second thing 
 is that events can be fun such as races and road rages due to the wonderful sense of speed. Everything 
 else is pretty much rubbish. The wrecking system is probably worst of all. At the beginning its 
 shows the beauty of the crash modelling. But it is just FAR too easy to wrecked, and later on, 
 watching the cutscene will simply be a nuisance. Moreover, during the fabulously unfair stunt runs, 
 the cutscene will be shown in slow motion, but the timer will not stop, making the game even more 
 unfair. Thirdly, driving normally a car can take a few knocks before wrecking. In road rage and 
 marked man, even 10 pointed strength vehicles can be blasted broken by their opponents. The unfairness 
 of this game is what brings the score so lo, otherwise it is strangely addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Lionheart
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a regular fan of racing games. Don't get me wrong, I probably have one particular favorite 
 in every series, but I buy maybe one racing game every 2-3 years, and only ones that really interest 
 me. These include Mario Kart, Midnight Club, BurnOut and perhaps a surprise game of a new franchise 
 or one I don't normally enjoy.
  
  Anyway, I love BurnOut. In this day and age, the only racing games accomplishing anything new are 
 BurnOut, and the other two aforementioned series. BurnOut is known for it's high octane sense of 
 speed, brutal crashes, and innovative game modes. The Paradise entry marks the reinvention of the 
 series, with open ended gameplay, motorcycles, day and night transitions, and very few, extremely 
 small loading times.
  
  One thing I've always been skeptical with for racing games is open world play. This means free 
 roaming an area by driving around and entering specific areas to change cars or race. I hated it 
 in Need For Speed Underground, but I kind of liked it in Midnight Club 3. I love it in BurnOut 
 Paradise. The only real issue (and the biggest flaw of the game) is that you can't restart events 
 after losing. Instead you have to drive all the way back to the specific event and try again. This 
 is a bit of a hassle, but other than that the open world of Paradise City is great. The game also 
 keeps track of your fastest runs and biggest crashes on every single street in the city. On top 
 of this you get two different kind of stations which (with no load times at all) repair your car 
 on the fly or restore your boost meter. You start with only one of each on your map but as you 
 find them they become marked from there on. It's a great help when you're in the middle of a race 
 or road rage event and you have to get that extra boost or keep your car from being totalled.
 
  
  The thing I enjoy most about driving through Paradise City is that it doesn't feel small like the 
 world of the Need For Speed free roamers, and it gives more driving paths than the Midnight Club 
 world did. There are tons of paths available. Don't believe me? Everytime you find a shortcut, 
 you break through a yellow fence, and the game keeps track of how many different shortcuts you've 
 taken. I've gotten 200 out of nearly 500 shortcuts, and I'm almost done with the game. That's how 
 much depth there is in the world. You'll be familiarized with it, but still find many new pathways 
 and areas. You enter events on the fly simply by slowing down and holding both triggers.
  
  Speaking of events, the modes in BurnOut rule. There's your standard Race, featuring visceral drivers 
 trying to score takedowns (crashing another car so bad that it wrecks) going at an intense pace 
 with traffic all at once. You also have no set path in races, you may go any route you take, and 
 finding the right one is half the battle. Then you have Road Rage, where the goal is to score the 
 specified amount of takedowns in the alotted time. There's also Marked Man, which may be the most 
 fun of the bunch. In Marked Man, you have to reach the goal (no time limit) , but you have several 
 other drivers trying to take you down along the way. Your car respawns a certain amount of times 
 after being wrecked, but when it's totalled, you lose. So you have to be fast, clean, and find 
 the auto-repair points to stay alive. There is also Stunt Run, where the goal is to score points 
 through jumps, drifts, constant boosting, and crazy spins, as well as the Burning Route, which 
 requires a specific car for a timed run.
  
  What about BurnOut's famous Crash mode? Well it's back in a sense. The new Showtime mode allows 
 you to enter a crash mode at any time (doing it in events cancels the event) , letting you specifically 
 control the bounce and force on your car, being able to take it as far as possible as long as you 
 hit other cars along the way. The most I've hit in one run was a bit over two hundred, and you'd 
 be surprised how addictive just bouncing your ride around on top of buses and trucks can be. I 
 like Showtime, but there was a certain strategic element to the old Crash mode with the cars driving 
 on set paths and leaving you with specific ramps and tools to get the best score. I would've liked 
 Crash Events to be included, with Showtime mode as a complete side feature.
  
  The latest free DLC is the motorbikes pack which also comes with the day/night update and two bike 
 specific event modes. I haven't tried the bikes, so I can't comment, but the modes are Burning 
 Ride, which is Burning Route for motorcycles, and Midnight Ride, which is Burning Ride but only 
 ever happens between the in-game hours of 8PM and 8AM. These modes aren't too big of a deal, but 
 from what I hear the bikes offer up some crazy stunts and an insane sense of speed.
  
  Speaking of stunts, the outrageous stuff you can do with your car is great. There are actually 
 achievements for doing two barrel rolls (TWO?! Peppy would lose his mind) as well as landing a 
 360 off a ramp. I've gotten the 360 but it's pretty damn hard to do any kind of barrel roll and 
 land your car.
  
  An interesting feature about the game is the Xbox Live Vision (or PlayStation Eye/EyeToy on PS3) 
 support. Not many games are using this camera peripheral, but BurnOut Paradise takes your snapshot 
 for your driver's license, and as you take down people online, it shows you a mugshot of their 
 reaction at the exact moment when you destroy them. I don't have Xbox Live Vision myself, but that 
 is one damn cool feature. They should start packing those things in with every 360 and every online 
 game should take mugshots of people when they get owned.
  
  Paradise sports some interesting online for a racing game. Being that it's a free roamer with no 
 loading times, you can simply press right on the d-pad and invite people to Paradise City to drive 
 around with you. The host can choose events (with or without traffic) , create up to 16 checkpoints, 
 and race crazy with seven buddies.
  
  For $30, there's not much of a reason not to have BurnOut Paradise. It's the best racing game on 
 the 360/PS3 (Forza and Project Gotham are great, but this is far more unique) , it's great fun online, 
 be it competitive or just fooling around, and it features two of the red blooded human being's 
 favorite things: intense speed and brutal destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  EA continues their streak of shoveling out crap and major game reviewers continue their streak 
 of not seeming to notice. There is not one aspect about this game that isn't done much better in 
 countless other arcade racers (including previous entries in the series) .
  
  New to the series is the open world environment. Every event takes place in a fairly small city 
 and races are started at most intersections. The setup is much like Test Drive: Unlimited but has 
 far less options. There is no way to move quickly around the city; you must drive everywhere. This 
 is fine in the beginning, but later in the game it feels like a complete waste of time. There is 
 also no way to see where the races are without being at their exact location. For example, if there 
 is one particular race type you enjoy, there is no way to find out where all the events like it 
 are. You must simply wander the city until you spot one. This game lacks most of the basic features 
 that are commonplace in nearly every other open world racer.
  
  The races play out like any typical arcade racer. When you are behind, your opponents drive like 
 beginners. When you take over the lead, they race like gods. I realize that this is done to make 
 the game more action packed, but it is dumb that the best way to win a race is to hang back out 
 of first place and boost past them on the final stretch. The cars control well enough, but the 
 hand brake is totally unpredictable and useless. This is especially disappointing because arcade 
 racers usually rely on the handbrake to pull of sharp corners. The boost system that the series 
 is known for is completely ruined in this game. In past Burnout games, boost was built up by driving 
 in oncoming traffic lanes, near misses, causing your opponents to crash, and other similar actions. 
 This added a new aspect to the races where you were forced to create action packed sequences in 
 order to keep the boost meter full. In this game, it is still done the same way but the boost is 
 much easier to get. Mildly agressive driving will keep your boost gauge maxed for just about the 
 whole race, making the above mentioned actions pointless to attempt. Also, every race is open at 
 the beginning of the game. There is absolutely nothing new to see or do (other than unlock cars) 
 that isn't available right from the start. This game is guilty of the one thing that I absolutely 
 hate when a racing games does; if you don't finish first, you completely fail the race. To make 
 matters worse, there is no option to restart an event (like you can do in any other racing game) . 
 If you know you are going to lose, you can quit the race but then must drive back to the starting 
 line if you want to try again. This would have been a minor addition that could have greatly improved 
 the overall flow of the game.
  
  In a monumentally moronic decision, EA decided to remove the crash mode that was the favored aspect 
 of the series by many players. It was replaced with the ability to start a crash at any time by 
 pressing the top two shoulder buttons. The problem is that you have far too much control over your 
 car while it is rolling through the air and with a minimum of effort, the crash can be extended 
 almost indefinitely. The action is always viewed from the normal racing view, so you don't get 
 a good look at the aftermath of your wreck. There is also no option to view a replay of the accident, 
 like in past versions of the series. Add to that the fact that there is basically no reward or 
 point to these crashes and this gameplay aspect quickly looses it appeal.
  
  The only part of the game I enjoyed was the Takedown mode. In these races, you goal is to force 
 a set number of other racers to crash while they try to do the same to you. There really is no 
 challenge to these events because I regularly got more than four times the number of takedowns 
 than the event required, but it is still a blast to play. I really liked this mode until I remembered 
 when I played the version of Burnout on the PSP that came out over a year ago. This version of 
 the game had the same exact Takedown mode but with more variety in the ways you can make your opposition 
 wreck. The more I thought about it, the more I realized that the old PSP version of the game is 
 far superior to this version. EA strikes again.
  
  Most arcade racers make up for their lack of depth by having more bells and whistles, like car 
 customization. Not so here. There are absolutely zero options to customize or upgrade your car. 
 You do have the option to unlock a second version of every car, but many times the new version 
 isn't even as good as the old one. Every car comes with one decal set and that can't be changed 
 or even removed. There are even a couple of cars that are covered with rust and have taillights 
 out. No amount of repairs or paint jobs will fix them. You can paint your car different colors, 
 but the procedure for this is fairly stupid. You must drive through the paint shop and a color 
 is randomly chosen for you. If you don't like the color, you must turn around and drive through 
 again and again until you get the color you want. Since the color is random, it could take a while 
 to find the one you want. I have even managed to get the same color multiple times in a row. Back 
 at your garage, you can choose among the colors that have already been applied to your car, but 
 there is no way to unlock all the available colors without driving through the paint shop over 
 and over with every car you own. Each car has a performance rating in only three categories and 
 none of them is handling. The cars handle very differently and the only way to know is to drive 
 every one. With 75 cars in the game, it is impossible to remember how every car drives. There is 
 absolutely no reason why they couldn't have put a fourth category for handling the way nearly every 
 single other racing game in the history of the world has.
  
  The graphics are fairly good. When crashing, the cars crumple far more realistically than I have 
 seen in other games. During a wreck, the game goes into slow motion and the mayhem can truly be 
 enjoyed. Unfortunately, the game doesn't wait until the car comes to a rest to reset the action. 
 The more spectacular accidents will be cut off right in the middle, far sooner than in past games 
 of the series. In takedown mode, your opponent's wrecks are even shorter, so you can't really enjoy 
 causing them to crash. There are also no drivers in the cars. I'm sure this probably had something 
 to do with the ESRB rating (although it is EA, so they may have just been too lazy to put them 
 in) but it is very disappointing to so plainly see driver-less cars all over the place.
  
  This title is another example of EA removing features and releasing half a game for full price 
 on a yearly basis. All this game made me want to do was dig up a copy of the last Need for Speed: 
 Underground or Midnight Club. If you want some trademark Burnout action, save yourself some money 
 and buy an older version of the series. Don't waste your time with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Previous Burnouts have had what I'd consider "last-gen" graphics and gameplay, even when they were 
 first released. Burnout Paradise is a stunner! And with excellent post-release support and downloads, 
 this is a must-have game if you enjoy fast cars and awe-inspiring wrecks!
  
  The open-world nature of the game has turned off more than a few people. But this open world nature 
 also evolves the game beyond the list of races to accomplish like Burnouts of the past. Now you 
 can do what you want, where you want, and have a heck of a good time doing it. The stunning visuals, 
 car models, and sound effects keep you interested enough to do "just one more race".
  
  There is a good assortment of things to do. From the various race modes, to finding crashes and 
 shortcuts, and the  Showtime mode. There are also special 
 cars to unlock, and some fairly inventive achievements. The only major faults I can think of are 
 the DJ which many people feel is too annoying, and the limited soundtrack, of which is an eclectic 
 mix which some feel doesn't work well with the game.
  
  There are other niggles which I could complain about, but in the end BP is a fun and addictive 
 game. If you get T-boned and slammed into a bridge support pillar by some guy with a wicked grin 
 and a wave... that's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-10/10
  Graphics-9.3/10
  Sounds-10/10
  Fun-10/10
  Multiplayer-6.5/10
  ----------------------------------
  Burnout Paradise-9.5/10- Gamespot Best Driving Game Of 2008
 
  
  For people that don't really care to speed or nitrox realism, and love to drive in a large and 
 fun place as Paradise City, Burnout Paradise is the best and almost perfect X360 driving game. 
 Is simple to drive and fun. It's graphics are just superb, with little failures on the landscapes. 
 The game sounds are PERFECT, You feel that you're inside a true, real life, race! Even car crashes 
 are fun in this game, doing awesome and always different damage to your car. Alot of game modes 
 and extras, such as Stunt Runs, Road Rages, Super Jumps, Burning Routes ( special races made to 
 a single car model, in wich you have to beat the time...) , and the way you gain your cars ( Takedown 
 other peoples car and ''steal'' it on the junkyard =D) make this game an unique, lenghty experience 
 tha you will enjoy much
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greg258
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  Over all score.9.0/10
  Game play...10/10
  Graphics...10/10
  Sound...10/10
  Keeping your interest...9/10
  Multiplayer.....5/10 ( have to 
 be online for 2 - 8) 
  
  This game's graphics are really nice. There's a lot of race's in this game and the city is like 
 your play ground you can go were ever you want. For race's just go to an intersection and burnout 
 your tires and the race will start the other race's will jump in wan it starts. Fined hidden roads 
 and short cuts to get ahead of the other race's, or just fine one big ramp to jump over everyone. 
 it will keep your interest for a long time this game is really fun. Every crash looks different 
 than the last one, sometimes you just want to go in a head on collision just to see what happens 
 to your car. The cars look sweet as hell. If 
  
  
  you're a burnout fane I would recommend this!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biro1618
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I've played the past three burnout games and actually waited for this game to buy a 360. And I'm 
 glad I did because I've clocked in about 67 hours playing this game (late night insomnia home from 
 college so I'm not out drinking kind of thing) and its great. 
  
  The only thing about this game that bothers me is a frustration that sets in around 40 to 50 hours 
 of playing. There are marked jumps scattered throughout Paradise City. When you go off of these 
 jumps the camera slows down and you get these nice cinematic shots of your car flying through the 
 air, and its really cool at first. But after a while these shots that once looked cool just get 
 kind of annoying and almost jarring in how they completely halt the momentum of the game. Now when 
 I play I tend to avoid them and go for the ones that don't ruin the sensation of speed. Its a small 
 frustration, but worth mentioning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player - The single player is awesome. There is just so much to do, i love it. There 
 are so many events to do and its pretty darn addictive. You can free roam, so thats amazing. and 
 with the added content (which is free!) you get bikes, which are awesome and fast! Overall, 10 
 /10
  
  2) Multiplayer- I personally felt that i never wanted to go online, i have, its fun, but i prefer 
 SP here 8/10
  
  3) Graphics- Pretty good graphics on 360 ,havent notice any real frame rate issues. The city is 
 very good, and some of the crashes are jaw dropping 8.5/10
  
  4) Sound- The sound is pretty good. I mean the music is good. engines sound good.... 9/ 10
  
 
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. The game plays out very nicely. Everything is easily 
 done. getting to events are fun, events are perfect difficulty 9.5/10
  
  6) Achievements- For those who are interested the achievements are pretty good, but only really 
 to people who can be bothered. I have about 350/1000 and alot of the online acheivements are pretty 
 hard,
  
  Overall, the game is defo a buy. You can free roam and you wont get bored of it, it has an amazing 
 single player expericance that no one should miss out on... Overall score, 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a racing, freestyle game that will stay interesting for a long time. Basically 
 you drive around Paradise City doing races, burnouts, show times, road rules, etc, until you become 
 the best driver in Paradise City. When you wreck it goes into a really cool wrecked video that 
 shows your car getting destroyed. While playing you will have to win events and races to upgrade 
 your license, you go from a learners permit (E-Class) , to D-Class, C-Class, B-Class, A-Class, Burnout 
 Paradise (S-Class) , Burnout Elite (SS-Class) , Criterion Elite (SSS-Class) . So there is tons of stuff 
 to keep you busy.
  
  There are 75 cars to collect in total, you can win some in races, events, or getting take downs 
 on certain cars. Your car also has a boost bar which is when you press A you will go even faster 
 than you were before.
  
  There are literally tons of things to do. The only hard part is getting used to the speeds and 
 remembering certain points on the map. Definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Im a big fan of the series Ive played the third one alot and revenge and they have to be some of 
 the best driving games ever but honeslty I didnt really care much for the new installment it just 
 didnt feel right the new open environment is cool but It just bothers me a little bit like when 
 Im driving and tring to pay attention to the road and the other drivers I have to looke at a mini 
 map and this can be very distracting I think I prefer the old flashing arrow track stuff I know 
 alot of people liked it the new and it is pretty well set up but I think it needs to be rethought 
 because the game goes way to fast for a person to be looking at a map all of the time but I can 
 put up with that and with practice it gets easier but what is bad about the game is no offline 
 multiplayer whats up with that if your going to have online play why not just and a splitscreen 
 I would have like the game alot more and I think its about time they put car custimization in I 
 know thats not really the games sytle but that would make it more intresting but the crash physics 
 along with superb graphics make a really good driving game and its just as intense as revenge knocking 
 people off cliffs or into pillers is still fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Now I'ma huge fan of Burnout Revenge, playing the single player and playing online was always fun. 
 One of my favorite games on the 360.
  
  Burnout Paradise took a bit of a different approach. This game looks great and the races are fun. 
 The one thing about it though is after a while, sometimes it seems a bit boring driving around 
 tryna found something to do. The soundtrack to this game also seems disappointing, however I hated 
 Burnout Revenge's music too that's why I listen to my own musicso the game's soundtrack isn't that 
 big of a deal.
  
  Gameplay is very solid, you can do different things depending on what veichle you're driving. There 
 are stunt cars, speed cars, big aggressive cars and now with the recent updates, there are now 
 motorcycles you can race around in.
  
  If you've been thinking about trying thise game out, I would highly recommend it, especially now 
 when you can find it for cheap on ebay or gamestop. It'll be well worth your dollar. Plus Criterion 
 has shown that they believe in offering DLC to enhance the player's experience, instead of releasing 
 updates to fix things they screwed up like other companies do with their games. Criterion has already 
 offered plenty of downloadable content and this game is almost a year old, and next spring they 
 will release another DLC for players. So like I said, if you a the least bit interested in this 
 game, you gotta get it. Even at a year old there's still new things being added to this game and 
 the multiplayer is still alive and well so there will definately be some people online for you 
 to take down and collect their mugshot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishopphoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  The only thing burnt out about this game... is the tires from too much bad-ass-ery. The only paradise 
 related element in this game is everything else.
  
  This game has something for everyone, multiple types of racing, multiplayer online, crashbreakers, 
 takedown events (my personal favorite) and a beautiful locale to play it in. Break billboards, 
 make super jumps, boost burst all over the place, find shortcuts and "steal" cars. All in one of 
 many (75 if I remember correctly, I currently have ~ 10) awesome cars. Each stoplight (also 75?) 
 can start another race. So you can find (using your map feature) which types of races you want 
 to do.
  
  Love racing only? Fine, race only? Love takedowns? Find them all?
  
  Each successful race or mission accomplished will unlock various licences, new cars, and other 
 intel to make this game more and more playable.
  
  I have only logged 10 hours so far, but know that there are at least 20 or 30 (VERY conservative 
 estimate) hours left before I even think of playing any other racing or car game (yes, that means 
 you GTA franchise) .
  
  Play and enjoy the best racing game out there for 360 responsibly.
  
  Spiritof 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  When I first put in the disk, I was half expecting a high speed, adrenaline pumping, car crashing, 
 NFS knockoff, which would have been great in my book. All sticks, except for the NFS knockoff, 
 which would include any form of story, the ability to mod your cars, and the ability to restart 
 races. Sadly, none of those exist. The game is pure arcade racing in its simplist form. You get 
 new cars by crashing them in the open world (you can see them speeding by like a maniax) . The modes 
 are plentiful, but not enough to save the game. When you play a race, you cannot restart it (realistic, 
 but frustrating) , and when you lose, the race is over, and you have to drive all the way back to 
 start the race over, which I never did, I just found a closer race or event to start. The events, 
 like the other forms of play, are varied, from the physics car crashing, to stunts, to just pure 
 racing. The races get fast, furious, and exciting, but the only reward is another race knocked 
 off as you get better drivers liscenses. Nothing else, no money to mod cars, no story line progression, 
 just another race finished. I would have loved the ability to mod cars like in NFS. The races are 
 easy to find, just go to any four way and you will have found it. Races are where this game shines, 
 as they are not linear, they are completely open, so you can choose how to get to the end, even 
 though you will want to take the most direct path and follow the AI most of the time. The online 
 shines too, as you can just almost drop in and out, and race others, and smah their cars up for 
 fun. All in all, the cars are varied, the races plentiful and fun, but I want some more form of 
 advancement besides the next liscense up to keep me going. Rent it first and then decide if it 
 is worth whatever price tag is slapped on it at this moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  The Burnout franchise has always been known for it's fast-paced and chaotic racing, if you could 
 call destroying cars racing at all. Now Criterion is releasing the newest installment onto the 
 Xbox 360, with Burnout Paradise. I'm just going to jump straight into the review; Burnout Paradise 
 does live up to the expectations that you'd expect from the series, while also improving the series 
 in great new ways. Its new open world environment and strong online play make it a game that any 
 racing fan should pick up, and any fans of video games in general as well.
  
  Burnout Paradise is going into a new direction from its predecessors by going into an open world 
 game where you can literally do anything you want. It does an excellent job at letting you play 
 the way you want to play, which is probably the best thing about this game to be honest. The main 
 point of the game is to eat as many races as you can and advance your driver's license up the ranks 
 until you become one of the Elite drivers in Paradise City. Now with the new open world theme of 
 the game, you can play all 120 races in any order you choose, instead of having to go in an orderly 
 fashion. To launch a race, you just need to find it on the map and go to its location. The races 
 are pretty much everywhere, so it's not very hard to find an event that you like. The only problem 
 with doing these races is that if you lose, there is no way to launch that race again other than 
 going all the way back to it's starting point; which could be all the way on the other side of 
 the map. Yet, I still love the open-world theme of the game and I applaud Criterion for going in 
 such way with the series.
  
  Speaking of races and events, the game has a very good diversity of them; each with cars that are 
 stronger for that particular mode. The game obviously has just normal races where you can race 
 through the streets of Paradise City to your appointed destination. The games other modes are where 
 I think the game strives myself, which are "Marked Man", "Stunt Run", and "Road Rage". Stunt Runs 
 are the most unique of the race types, where you try to pull off all the coolest tricks you can 
 do. This mode can be hard at first, but once you get the hang of it and you're pulling off insane 
 barrel rolls; it can be great fun. The final mode is my personal favorite though, Road Rage. This 
 mode is classic Burnout fun, just trying to crash as many enemies as you can without going down 
 yourself. When you're on all kinds of takedown frenzies and enemy cars are flying everywhere, this 
 can mode can be every bit as exciting as the games before it. 
  
  Now all those modes you'll need to do to beat the game and advance farther along with your licenses. 
 Yet they do have another mode included in Burnout Paradise that takes the place of the crash modes 
 in the previous games of the series; it's called Showtime. You can launch a Showtime run at any 
 time during the game and start crashing as many cars as possible. You can keep rolling your car 
 around for an infinite amount of time as long as you keep taking out enough cars along the way. 
 Now although this mode sounds fun, it really doesn't have the appeal to me as other crashing modes 
 did in previous games like Burnout Revenge. Since the game is pretty much just luck on which cars 
 come down at you, I personally didn't approve as much as if it could have had some strategy to 
 it. Luckily, Criterion did not make this a must do in the game; just an additional feature that 
 wasn't quite as good as I hah hoped.
  
  The open world layout of Burnout Paradise is backed up by fantastic online play that really helps 
 this games lasting value. With a simple press of the D-pad during anytime of single-player, you 
 can launch your own game where anyone on Xbox Live can jump into you're world and play with you. 
 Once you gather up a few buddies, you can start a race off the ones designed in single player or 
 do one of the many challenges that Criterion has set up for you to do. So just like the single 
 player in Burnout, you can pretty much do whatever you want online with no real restrictions. To 
 me, this makes Paradise Online the best way to race with your friend's period, and adds tons of 
 value to this game that really puts it above other games in the series along with pretty much all 
 other racing games this generation.
  
  As far as my complaints go for the game, there aren't very many. The graphics look fine for the 
 game, but the explosions and crashes look exceptionally well done. The game does have some glitches 
 though, not enough to bring the game down but enough to be noted. I have re-spawned on top of the 
 tree, which forced me to lose a race, so be pre-pared for some small issues like that. The difficulty 
 could use a little tweaking, since some of the modes at first can be very challenging and at times 
 frustrating. The last main complaint I have is the announcer, DJ Atomica. He gives you the info 
 on what's going on in Paradise City, and he turns out to be pretty annoying. Sadly, you can't turn 
 him off or anything like that, so you have to listen to his comments every time you lose a race. 
 
  
  Even with the very few glitches and an annoying announcer, Burnout Paradise is an excellent racing 
 game that I have to recommend to anyone who's ever loved the series or racing games in general. 
 The new open world layout and strong online competitions combined with everything that previous 
 games did right make Burnout Paradise a strong step forward in the series. There are no major downfalls 
 to the game, and the re-play value should give you a ton of game for your money. Burnout Paradise 
 plain and simply is a great game that should be played by any video game lover out there.
  
  
  Overall, I give Burnout Paradise a great 8.5 out of 10.
  
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swol1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Burnout: Paradise is a really good game there almost nothing wrong in it, the graphics are fine, 
 the selection of cars, the challenges, the music is perfect, there are almost nothing wrong, except 
 that if you played it too long you get pretty bored, at least I think. But that does not matter 
 you can play at least about 100 hours or more. Otherwise everything is good! There are many challenges 
 for example: Stunt Run, Racing and Marked Man. Those are really fun to play. I must say: this really 
 is a Masterpiece!! The thing I like the most is the cars, there are so many that I can't even count!! 
 And the three types of cars: aggression, speed, and stunt. As you can here on the names there a 
 very fast cars, very strong cars and finally cars that are good on stunts ( good on stunt runs.) 
 So if you like all that buy this game!!! It is 3+ so go on!!!
  
  
  // Swol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiragsharmadx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a great racing game. 
  
  The game starts you off with one car. Shockingly it is actually a good looking car and not a crapy 
 looking car and is a good starter car. You play in a town called Paradise City witch is really 
 good looking place and pretty big. You have to do races and stuff like you do in previous Burnout 
 games, you get a license and you do them to upgrade your license. Every time you upgrade your license 
 you get a brand new car. Another way to unlock cars is to get a special amount of wins and then 
 the annoying return of the Dj tells that this car is going around Paradise City and if you get 
 into a crash into it then you get the car. All of your cars go to the junk yard so if you want 
 to ride a different car then you have to go to the junk yard to get the car. One of the best part 
 of the game is that each car has its own special ability, so say if i have a speed car that means 
 that its best in races.
  
  But like all racing games it does have some problems.
  
  Like I said in the first paragraph probably the worst part of Burnout Paradise is the return of 
 the Dj. Also the sound track is not as great as it used to be. Really there is like only like three 
 or four good songs in the game. The big let down is that the crashes are not as good as they used 
 to be if you hit a car from the side only then will then crash look great. Before in Burnout when 
 you use the jet it sounded like it was literally in the room but now it does not sound like that. 
 To be honest you can barley here it. And it is really really easy you probably can unlock every 
 car in the game in less than 8 hours
  
  All out Burnout Paradise is a great game. But the stuff that made Burnout famous really did not 
 show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHH34
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Showtime Mode does not make up for the missing Crash Mode. There's still takedowns and all that 
 jazz, so what the hey, it's nothin new really. It's got "Stunt Runs", but those'll get old real 
 fast. Lookin back, Burnout three and up might have been better. Crash Mode made Burnout the dominating 
 force of racing, that and killing other cars. This so-called innovative open-world thing is overrated. 
 Who really cares. Bring back Crash Mode next time.
  
  I think "Burnout: Paradise" just got cocky after the biggest disappointment of racing game history 
 called "Need For Speed: ProStreet". They'll have to do better in the sixth version of the game. 
 Otherwise, I ain't buyin' it... unless of course, it comes out before Christmas, then, well I still 
 won't buy it. Someone else'll buy it for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  To start off i will tell you something, i do not usually enjoy playing car racing games such as 
 gran turismo and alike, for to me they are too boring. Once i discovered burnout takedown i have 
 been a loyal follower of the Burnout series and believe that it is for any video game fan.
  
  When you start off in Paradise City the theme song by Guns n Roses screams out of the speakers. 
 What a great first impression. As you start there is some corny radio announcer, but luckily you 
 don't hear him to often after you have found all the game modes.
  
  Probably the most fun thing to do in Paradise City is to go online and compete in challengers, 
 my favorites are the ones where you have to do a barrel role through a circular bit of concrete. 
 You can pretty much make up any challenge you want. You can also hold races online whenever you 
 want to.
  
  In my opinion Burnout Paradise is the best car racing game in the series and at the moment the 
 best car racing game overall. Its big jumps and high speed car crashes make it all sooooo much 
 fun. 
  
  Dunno what you are doing reading this, just get it!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is a racing series that has truly managed to survive for quite a while due to its high-speed 
 racing with insane crashes. But when Burnout Revenge was rereleased for the Xbox 360 a few years 
 ago, the only new changes were really just shinier graphics, achievements, and a better replay 
 feature. But EA has finally released the truly first next-gen Burnout game and boy is it fun! The 
 biggest new mechanic in Burnout Paradise is the Freeburn mode. In previous games, all of the racing 
 events were selected from the menu and simply chose which race you wanted to be in and there, you're 
 racing. Free burn lets you explore the massive Paradise City, (yes, the Guns N' Roses song is in 
 the game) a large city loosely based on Miami and Lake Tahoe. Unfortunately, exploring the city 
 isn't actually that fun. At every intersection and stoplight in the game, there's an event to participate 
 in. Whether it's an intense, multi-lap race, a sprint to the finish, the addicting road rage mode, 
 or the new intense marked man mode (make it to the finish without totaling your car) , you'll always 
 be too occupied to bother exploring. The one famous mode that didn't return is the series beloved 
 crash mode. But the good news is that there is a new (and arguably better) mode called show time. 
 Show time lets your car bounce along the busy, traffic-filled roads destroying anything and everything 
 in your path. Your goal is to make the most expensive, crash possible without stopping. In show 
 time, your boost meter becomes your bounce meter, and when your bounce meter runs out, your car 
 won't bounce anymore. To keep the meter filled up; you need to crash into buses which is extremely 
 satisfying. Online play is also much simpler now. Press right on the D-pad and you can join your 
 friends or a quick match instantly! You can participate in events or just drive around causing 
 trouble. Paradise's graphics are good, if not great. But the sense of speed is excellent! The crashes 
 look great in slow motion and the sound is perfect. Whether you a Burnout vet or a noobie to the 
 Burnout franchise, Paradise is a great buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhinoFish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  In Burnout Paradise it's all about the player. The developers give you control to do what you want 
 and continue to produce amazing updates and content. To start, the graphics are top notch for a 
 racing game in which environments need to be processed rapidly. There are quite a few visual glitches 
 but most of them are minor enough to only be noticed when focused on. The cars perfectly designed 
 and the colors can be customized in the starting menu. Aside from it being sharp and stylish, it 
 has a whole new concept that works very well. The open world is not just addicting but a pleasurable 
 experience because of the freedom. If the players doesn't really like Stunt events they can choose 
 to do a race and continue to advance in the game. During the events the player can choose the route 
 while being guided to the objective (in race and marked man) so they don't get lost. The car combat 
 system works better than ever. In previous Burnout games car that the player hadn't even come in 
 contact with would crash and be 'taken down'. Now the physics are more realistic and the cars that 
 crash aren't always counted as a take down. In general, slamming and grinding the cars is fun and 
 satisfying but with all great games there are great mistakes. Say hello to DJ Atomika. DJ Atomika 
 won't shut up until you MAKE him through the sound options (thank god) . His fat mouth declares 
 the outcome of the race through some cheesy comment as if the player is illiterate and can't read 
 the huge letters on the screen. A smaller problem is the fact that Burnout refuses to use loading 
 screens. So if I happen to start a race and go all the way out into the mountains but I want to 
 be inside the city I have to go all the way back. Even with these small defects, Burnout Paradise 
 has a lot to offer and shouldn't be overlooked as another just racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainydayreality
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Burnout has been one of my favorite series to follow since Burnout 2 Point of Impact. This game 
 has stunning visuals and High Octane Racing that will blur your vision. Alos, who doesn't like 
 free DLC?
  
  Gameplay: Its much like the past title, with a few upgrades such as Free roam. Decent map with 
 tons of shortcuts, billboards and stunt jumps to hit. The system of starting events is very innovatve. 
 Each event starts by pulling to a stop and a stop light and reving your engine. With lots of variety 
 in races and events it makes this game addicting.
  
  Visuals: One of the best games visually when it comes to racing games. The cars have very impressive 
 crash models and pretty much crumble up like coffee cans. With a few glitches in lighting, this 
 game is up to date on its graphics.
  
  Multiplayer: I'm just going to say that my friend only had this game when he got his 360 and has 
 more friends than I do jsut from this game. Custom races and Challenges. Plus FREE DLC! Its an 
 awesome feature for EA to do.
  
  Physics: Like I said your car will tumble and roll along traffic and collisions will make you sit 
 there in awe. Crash time is lame but oh well. 
  
  this is a good game go buy it its great for people who lovwe racing and the Burnout series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a visual treat. It's an assault on the human senses. Boring? No. Timid? Not 
 a chance. Humdrum? Far from it. Of course, if a game relies on one mechanic too heavily, it's said 
 to be staid. If a game relies on its visual presentation too heavily, it's said to be a one-trick 
 pony. Burnout Paradise embraces its arcade roots and, ironically, embodies some of the most realistic, 
 most dazzling and most sure-footed vehicular sequences to be found on the Xbox 360. Thankfully, 
 it also handles like a dream, and with a cunningly implemented online browser, this is surely the 
 finest notch on Criterion's belt. 
  
  Paradise is such a visual leap from Burnout Revenge that you'll question whether the two year gap 
 was used for anything other than lavish graphical touch-ups. The fact that the game runs at a slick 
 sixty-frames-per-second only solidifies this question. It's then that you discover Paradise is 
 a complete departure from the series staple. A free-roaming world has been introduced, one that 
 you can traverse as you please. In an ever-increasing sandbox market the city is comparatively 
 impressive. It's large and expansive and varied and sure to entice numerous hours of gaming. While 
 a day-night cycle has been omitted, the overarching dusky theme suffices. Moreover, tightly confined 
 main roads and swooping canyon vistas help to vary the pace, although the core idea of the game 
 (to drive fast) is never compromised.
  
  And it's just that. Driving fast has never seemed so appealing. While Paradise never encroaches 
 on the substance of a RPG, it pulls off its core element so successfully that you'll never complain. 
 Careening around corners at unimaginable speeds might heighten the arcade presumptions you have. 
 Yet, it handles like a proper racing game. The cars feel appropriately diversified while the graphics 
 trump its rivals in visual style and technical procession. 
  
  Initially however, the game seems daunting. Being left in an open world and told to get on with 
 it defies traditional game-shepherding conventions. Nonetheless, you'll come to grips with the 
 setup and fully appreciate the lack of restrictions. Races are devoid of pre-determined paths with 
 perseverance being the key. And once you've learnt the ways of the city, Burnout Paradise will 
 seem just that: A paradise. With varied race types and a beautifully implemented online browser 
 (accessible in game) , it begs the question: Why haven't more racing games adopted this open-world 
 experience?
  
  If there are flaws, they're minor. Again, the game's scope will intimidate some, while traditional 
 racing enthusiasts will scoff the lack of a track. The music is also occasionally amiss. Ultimately 
 though, these are minor blemishes on an otherwise impeccable sheen. An absolute thrill-ride that 
 champions the Xbox 360, Burnout Paradise should be sampled by all; save for the heart-attack prone, 
 perhaps. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanSandwich
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a big fan of the Burnout series, and have been very impressed with how the series 
 keeps getting better with each release. Well, this game keeps the improvement coming. Burnout Paradise 
 abandons the structured race setup of its predecessors but maintains all the hectic and destructive 
 action that the series has become known for. It opens the player up to an entire city, complete 
 with plenty of jumps, shortcuts, and other secrets to search out (and destroy) . It also features 
 fantastic multiplayer modes. To many players' chagrin, the Crash mode from the previous games has 
 been nixed in favor of a Showtime mode which pretty much allows you to crash anywhere you please. 
 While many players miss the old system, I rather like Showtime, and even prefer it now to Crash. 
 It also has a new Stunt Run mode where you race around the city linking jumps, drifts, and other 
 stunts together into combos trying to earn the most points. 
  
  While initially the multiplayer was fairly bare-bones, offering only races and challenges, through 
 multiple post-release updates (that are free by the way) the game has added more modes, challenges, 
 and even motorcycles to the mix. This not only makes the game bigger, but better overall. Throw 
 in a day-night cycle and dynamic weather and this game becomes an even broader experience. Not 
 only this, but soon they will be adding an entire island to the game, as well as (an optional) 
 Party mode which lets you play offline with your friends.
  
  I have been recommending this game to everyone I know with a 360 or PS3, and now that all these 
 updates are being released for it, it has become a much better game than it was at launch. And 
 it was really good then too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 598gh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  when i first play this game i said this is the best of the best even its better than street racing 
 better than nfs under cover and midnight club la street racing is suuuuuuuuuuuck the cars are so 
 awosome evry thing is coooooooooooool the songs are the best but its had some rap music and its 
 so suck ynow like nerd rock star it was suck the best song its fake it but this was the best of 
 the best ///////////////////////// /////// /////////// ////////////// ///////////// ///////////////// 
 ////////////////// //////////////////// ///////////////////// ///////////// /////////////////// 
 ///////////////// //////////////// ////////////////// ////////////////// //////////////////// //////////////// 
 ///////////////// //////////////// //////////////// /////////////////// //////////////// ///////////////// 
 //////////////////// ///////////// ////////////// ////////////// ////////////// ////////////////// 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topgun121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  So, Criterion Games, father to the burnout series, finally decided to try something new. Burnout 
 1, 2, 3, and Revenge were good, but Criterion felt a need to freshen things up. They do this by 
 rebuilding everything from the ground up and throwing out the old linear progression system and 
 adding open world game play.
  
  The open world game play truly adds to the experience. The large map includes several different 
 areas collectively called Paradise City. These areas represent venues seen previously in the other 
 installments. There is the mountainside to the west, with many curvy roads and some intense drops, 
 the lake area, which is home to many several bridges which have large ramps as well as a dam. Then, 
 there is about half of the map, downtown. This area is filled with many large buildings and tight 
 turns. All of these areas are very fun to be in, and everyone will have their favorite.
  
  One might be inclined to believe that the open world game play would feel extremely different from 
 the other Burnout games. This person is inclined to be completely right. However, different doesn't 
 mean bad. While the average driving still feels like Burnout, the player will now be required to 
 brake or drift (hold both triggers) in order to turn effectively due to the lack of the previously 
 used "arrow walls" which the player would be able to bounce off of. This new non-linear game play 
 forces the player to actually slow down to make turns, instead of careening around corners making 
 the mastery of the game that much more difficult. The numerous and ever present shortcuts will 
 add to this mastery. However, playing this game for the first time only requires a short five to 
 ten minute learning curve.
  
  This learning curve is much aided by the ever present DJ Atomica, who speaks every couple of minutes 
 reminding the player of things which they may not know and giving all around helpful tips. This 
 acts as an extended tutorial to the game, as there is no actual "tutorial". However, Atomica, while 
 helpful, begins to repeat himself and get quite annoying, saying the same lines over and over again. 
 He is not overly intrusive, but it will be noticed within the first ten hours of play. Atomica 
 aside, the sound is very well done. The engine noises and wrecks are very realistic and will keep 
 you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Now that the you've learned the basics and got the hang of the open world, you can participate 
 in challenges. Criterion decided to make it so that every single intersection in the game is a 
 challenge. You can choose between several different ones. Firstly, you have the race, a grid of 
 you and seven other racers start at the intersection and race to one of the several designated 
 finish lines. Next, there is Marked Man, which is basically the same as a race, except there are 
 no positions and the other drivers are trying to kill you before you get there. Then, you have 
 stunt run, you have a time limit and must get a certain number of points before it expires. Returning 
 favorite Road Rage, where you take out as many cars as possible is back. Also, each car has a Burning 
 Route which you can complete to unlock an upgraded version of that specific car. Both Road Rage 
 and Marked Man limit the amount of times you can wreck by ending the challenge after a few crashes. 
 This variety of challenges keeps the game interesting for quite some time.
  
  One thing that can be very disappointing for some people is the lack of a fast travel or even a 
 basic retry after a challenge. This is quite annoying early on, but you will get used to it, seeing 
 as it doesn't take long to get from point A to point B in this game by any means.
  
  There are other free form challenges, Showtime and Road Rules. The former is a poor recreation 
 of crash mode which is activated at any time by pressing both bumpers. Road Rules track the time 
 you take to get to the end of a whole street, and if it is under the set time you "rule" that road. 
 However, these mini-game challenges do not count toward career mode.
  
  Career mode in Paradise is very simple, complete a certain number of challenges to upgrade your 
 license. Upgrade your license and new cars become available. In order to obtain new cars, you must 
 take them down in free play and they will get added to your junkyard, which acts as your garage. 
 Throughout the course of the career, AI difficulty scales up as you get the hang of things. The 
 main problem with the career, is that it gets repetitive and long. The final license takes way 
 to long to obtain, forcing you to go through all of the races you have already done again. This 
 is very disheartening and will dissuade many people from actually finishing the game. There are 
 multiple junkyards throughout the map for convenience purposes. To change your car, all you must 
 do is simply enter a garage "drive-thru" which brings up a menu of cars to choose from. You also 
 have the option choose one of a couple preset paint schemes for your car and choose the primary 
 color.
  
  The cars come in many different styles, ranging from a General Lee-type car to a Formula One car. 
 The cars come in three types, Stunt, Speed, and Aggression. Stunt is the Burnout 3, allowing you 
 to use boost whenever you want. Speed is the Burnout 1 and 2 style where you have to fill up the 
 whole bar in order to use boost. Aggression adds extra boost as well as a new section to your boost 
 bar when you take down and enemy car.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the junkyard is a drive-thru. However, there are more different drive-thrus 
 than just this one. There is the gas station, which instantly refills your boost, the repair station, 
 which repairs your car, and the paint shop, which puts a shiny coat of random paint on your car. 
 The former two are incredibly useful in challenges. The repair station resets your crash count 
 during Marked Man and Road Rage events so that you can continue the challenge. These stations can 
 be used at any time and quickly become invaluable.
  
  While playing Paradise, you may notice billboards, lighted street cones, and yellow gates. These 
 are collection challenges, smash through all of the 120 billboards and get a new car. Same goes 
 for the lighted street cone jumps, and smashing through all of the yellow "smash" gates. The billboard 
 and gate collection will be ignored by many players, but to well reward players who take the time 
 to complete them.
  
  Another important aspect of this game is multiplayer. So important, in fact, that Criterion included 
 an in game multiplayer menu that is activated by pressing right on the d-pad. The idea is that 
 you enter a lobby without loosing any play time. The lobby is just the map, and this is called 
 Freeburn. Drive around with friends and take them down. Start a point to point race with them. 
 Do some incredible stunts together. Or, even compete to see who is the best by using the top right 
 of the screen to see who holds a certain record in eight different areas. Eight players can join 
 a Freeburn at any time, even during a race or challenge. The bulk of your time in Freeburn will 
 be spent completing different Freeburn Challenges, which can be competitive or co-operative. An 
 example of one of the challenges might be, "All players get a double barrel roll on the beach front". 
 This creates an excellent sense of fun with only friendly competition. Sometimes, though, someone 
 in your room will not want to do the challenge and do their own thing. If this happens, none of 
 the challenges can be completed unless that player co-operates. This is a very major and unfortunate 
 oversight, as it happens a lot, and there should at least be an option to do a challenge without 
 that particular person.
  
  Criterion has supported their game well since launch with a plethora of Auto Updates and, more 
 notably, extra content that is free of cost. These large downloads can be found on the Xbox Live 
 Marketplace and can be downloaded by silver members. Cagney, one of the updates, adds new Timed 
 Freeburn Challenges, which force you to be quick. The biggest current update, Davis, adds motorcycles 
 for the first time in Burnout history and a whole new bike career, which clocks in at under 6 hours. 
 The bikes add a whole new feel to the Burnout series and are extremely well done. However, in multiplayer, 
 bikes and cars don't mix, and it is either an all car room, or an all bike room. Another oversight 
 is that bikes can't be used in online races (although there is still the new Freeburn Challenges) . 
 Also added in Davis is a 24 hour day-night cycle. The night feels too dark and for some reason, 
 the light on your car/bike is the only one that projects onto the street. This means that street 
 lights do not light the street and the AI cars don't have lights. This over darkness can be fixed 
 by just ever so slightly raising the brightness and contrast on your TV set. Also added in Davis 
 is an "almost" dynamic weather system, featuring varying levels of fog and cloudiness. All of these 
 updates are welcome additions despite their flaws. Later in 2008, Criterion will release their 
 Eastwood update, adding a whole new land mass in Paradise City and more for free. This review will 
 be updated after it is released.
  
  The Verdict:
  Overall, Burnout Paradise is a very solid game with a few flaws. The open world game play is welcome 
 with open arms, but the too-long career, and collection mini-game will stop many from completing 
 this game. Criterion continues to update the game well after release and all of the updates are 
 very solid and become an important selling point for this already amazing game. This game is certainly 
 one that should be purchased rather than rented, due to its length and very fun and long lasting 
 multiplayer. This game is easily one of the few must-have racing games on the Xbox 360 and for 
 its selling price of $30 USD, it is a steal for its amazing bang to buck ratio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjjay
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmarkin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game late at night for about 3 hours Monday - Friday sense I got it a 
 week ago today I have really been enjoying Paradise City. The fact that I can start up Paradise 
 city in the 360 and drive around aimlessley while crashing a couple billboards, gates and a super 
 jump here and there there are many paths to explore and long turns to drift and just drive really 
 really fast is fun on its own. I have a hard time remembering short cuts to benefit and what races 
 or events I have cleared during the current licence. Choose your events; Its perfect you want to 
 race then race damn race all day if you can theres always road rage, marked man and stunts to play 
 later if you would like a better version of your current car (that you are driving at the moment) 
 search for the indiviual clock time to break well thats if you can fined the event (seriously it 
 gets annoying looking, wrong car!) . The mini map is usful hear and there on my standard 18 inch? 
 (I think) TV just pay attention to the road its a piss off when the finish line is down the street 
 while my eyes divert to the lower right while the road turns violently arrows to the right as the 
 shards of what was a car scatter a coupld feet ahead, compact racer.
  
  I like this game a lot I only wish you could customize (more than just paint jobs) your favorite 
 vehicles than again they have 175 vehicles to unlock... I think I am at 22 I suppose that would 
 get a little crazy, crazy fun. I'm still trying to get a motor bike in this game and I don't have 
 a wireless adapter so a 9.0 is my rating for $29.99 I am glad I bought Burnout Paradise City. - 
 x Markin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socky1101
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  
  
  This game is so awesome, really the best game in the series. The car selection is great and the 
 paint jobs are cool to. I wish it had more customizable things you can do to your cars. Like NFS 
 most wanted or like Forza 2. I havent been able to play the game for a long time because my disk 
 has a gigantic scratch around the disk. I was trying to tilt my 360 and i wasn't thinking and scratched 
 it very badly.
  
  
  
  I havent bought a new copy because i m freaking lazy and always at school and what really sucks 
 is that i havent tried the bike add on and i really want to. But i saw a video here on gamespot 
 and the crashes on the bikes aren't like GTA 4 no ragdoll physics and thats just stupid. The why 
 is probably because its violent and the game is rated E10 or something and some moms would complain 
 of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. I honestly enjoy playing it and especially with other people. At first go, the 
 game is overwhelming but once you just do a couple races and upgrade your licence a couple of times, 
 you understand the philosiphy and the fun of the game. If you have a friend or two who has the 
 game and XBOX Live, ripping through the streets together is a blast. The new way of collecting 
 cars is funner than just recieving them, and events can be chalenging if you are not used to the 
 speed, especially later in the game. The graphics are pretty and the new update gives more varity 
 to the look and fell of the game, making it better. Overal good game with very nice crashes and 
 crappy annoying radio host. I like his enthusiasm, but he needs to be fired. With the new $30 price 
 tag and im sure $20 used, ther is no reason not to own this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Criterion Games and EA have made some stellar arcade styIe racing games within the Burnout series 
 in the past. The first Burnout outing in the current generation of consoles is only on the Xbox 
 360 and PlayStation 3, I only played the 360 version but both are the same content wise. Paradise 
 isn't just a bump up in visuals however; while it still keeps the core gameplay of the series it 
 adds some cool new features that change things up just enough. With a new open-world gameplay structure, 
 cleverly integrated online and a wider and more specific variety of vehicles makes this a paradise 
 worth visiting.
  
  
  In Paradise City, a sunny locale with an ocean-front, baseball stadium, windmills, mountain line 
 and many other sub-sections, it serves as your automobile playground. Paradise takes place in some 
 odd parallel universe populated by phantom cars that do not need drivers in order to function. 
 Then there's this DJ Atomica character who commands the radios in Paradise and chats the day away 
 talking about other Burnout drivers doing flat spins and good spots for catching air. Vexing, yes; 
 awkwardly hysterical, at times; useful, not really. You'll learn to ignore the well-intentioned 
 DJ after a while; now if they swapped him out for the female tutorial guide voice actor from Burnout 
 Revenge I could listen to her voice all day no matter what she is saying.
  
  
  Open world games come with many pros and cons, but none so as much as Paradise. It's a real joy 
 to not have to navigate clunky menus to find events like in past Burnout games; instead you drive 
 around freely and find events. To initiate an event just pull up to any intersection and hold down 
 both triggers. Each intersection has one event and you can repeat the events once you get a higher 
 license, more on this later. If you want to end the event simply stop your vehicle and it will 
 automatically cancel the event. Sounds great right? 
  
  
  It is, most of the time. When it's a neck-to-neck battle for first place or you're nearly at the 
 target score for a Stunt Run and you fail, there is no 'Retry' option. If you want to try again 
 you must go all the way back to the intersection where the event initiates. This isn't really a 
 problem early on as if you lose an event there will likely be a handful of events in close proximity 
 to you, but later on it can be a little frustrating. Also events that you have completed are not 
 marked or anything. So you may accidentally re-initiate already completed events, thankfully DJ 
 Atomica tells you this and then you can just stop your car and cancel it, it's still rather annoying 
 though.
  
  
  Licenses upgrade at set intervals of numbers of wins. When it upgrades all events are basically 
 'reset'. So there's race A, you beat race A when you had a C license. You upgraded to a B license, 
 you can now do race A and it will count as a win again. It takes about 70 or so wins to go from 
 D cIass to A cIass licenses, and there are 120 events in total in Paradise. In fact when I got 
 my A license (which isn't even the highest license) I had already clocked in over 12 hours of play. 
 As you can see, Paradise will last you a long time, and even longer for completionists. With my 
 A license I was only at 38% complete; collecting every car, smashing every gate, destroying each 
 billboard and finding all the super-jumps will keep you busy for a long time.
  
  
  There are only five types of events in Paradise, but each caters to certain driving skills and 
 need a unique approach. Races are standard well, races. You have to beat other drivers to the 
 finish line, and the number of racers can vary from six and eight to even just two. Burning Routes 
 are car specific and are essentially solo time-trials. Marked Man challenges require you to make 
 it from one point to another without being taken down by other racers. 
  
  
  Road Rage, my personal favorite, is basically a game of high velocity bumper cars. You must takedown 
 a certain number of cars and you have no time limits and no destination, just you, other drivers 
 and Paradise City. Stunt Runs are timed sessions in which you must score as much points as possible. 
 In order to score points you can do ramp jumps, barrel rolls, flat spins, and other such things, 
 which are physically impossible in real life, but totally common actions in the Burnout universe.
 
  
  
  Replacing the Crash mode from past Burnouts is the Showtime mode. At any time you can hit both 
 bumpers and your car will became a bouncing chunk of shattering metal that will keep it's momentum 
 as long as you keep crashing and smashing stuff. It's not as tight and, dare I say, strategic as 
 Crash mode, where you had to plan a route and use plentiful 'aftertouch' to navigate your wreck 
 for maximum wreckage, but it's fun and mindless, perfect if you don't feel like doing events and 
 would rather get some instant action.
  
  
  Unlike past Burnout games where selecting what car to use was needlessly confusing and it wasn't 
 as simple as 'pick the one that's farthest to the right', Paradise keeps that second tradition 
 intact but makes it much easier to decide what to drive. When you get a new car it won't always 
 be better than all the ones you already have, but it will probably be better for certain events 
 than others. Cars are given a tentative classification and a stat for 'speed', 'boost' and 'strength'. 
 
  
  
  Pick a car with high 'strength' for Road Rage and Marked Man events or for Stunt Runs cars with 
 high 'boost' are usually your best bet for scoring high. Paradise makes it easy to choose a ride 
 and car variety is high as well; I went with an antique 50's styIe pick-up truck for a while then 
 switched to a Japanese street racer with sexy black tribal decals. Unfortunately there is no customization 
 beyond changing the color of the car. But you'll be swapping paint jobs and shunting other racers 
 so much your immaculately detailed recreation of your pet turtle Franky will be unrecognizable 
 by the end.
  
  
  The mini-map in the bottom right hand corner is a bit cluttered and messy. But it becomes manageable, 
 eventually, and once you know the basic layout of Paradise City it'll serve as just a quick reminder 
 of familiar routes and paths that you'll have by then memorized. I rarely even use it for constant 
 navigational purposes now. I just take a quick glance at it to make sure I'm on the right pathway, 
 there are landmarks that are easily distinguished that will help you find your way. For example, 
 if I'm on the southern end I'll just make sure I'm following the red railroad line as that cuts 
 right through that section.
  
  
  Now online play in Paradise is plain awesome. Not only is it fun to freeburn with others, but it's 
 so simple to setup. Just press right on the d-pad, and an in-game menu opens up where everything 
 online related is laid out for you. It's idiot-proof and so easy to host, invite, find and join 
 games. Paradises online mode is a good example of how to merge online seamlessly into a game.
 
  
  
  While the overall design is adequately fluid, there is one thing that holds the game back 'driveaways.' 
 Sometimes when you crash, instead of getting totally wrecked, your car remains functional and you'll 
 have to continue on. It's incredibly frustrating to be in the front of the pack, only to nick a 
 SUV in an intersection and spin out, then instead of respawning as you would if you wrecked, you 
 get a 'driveaway.' Then all the other racers zoom by as you try to get pack up to speed. Once I 
 was literally like 10 meters from the finish line in a Burning Route, then I got a 'driveaway,' 
 unfortunately my car tumbled over and was facing the wrong direction. By the time I backed up and 
 re-orientated my vehicle I had ran out of time. It never reaches baby-punching levels of vexation, 
 but it's irritating nonetheless.
  
  
  Graphically Paradise is very nice. The environments are nicely detailed and feel full; spare tire 
 piles at gas stations, random parked cars, Paradise City isn't just a bunch of roads. Cars gleam 
 realistically in the light and they crumple real good during crashes. Metal bends, windows blow 
 out and debris scatters every which way; add in some slow-mo, dynamic camera angles and saturated 
 washed-out color effects and you have a recipe for consistently beautiful crashes. 
  
  
  Maybe it was just me; but whenever I would crash by accident or by some stupid error the game would 
 make it look like any banal mundane crash scene. But once I was on a total rampage in a Road Rage 
 event and after a takedown the camera followed the car I just totaled. As it pirouetted down the 
 street, with ample motion-blur effects, it was a true twirling hunk of metallic death, cars were 
 whizzing by and shredded parts were flying willy-nilly it looked and felt better than some Hollywood 
 movie scenes.
  
  
  Framerate is amazing as well, it's a blisteringly steady 60 frames per second and even with multiple 
 racers taking down one another and vying for first place it doesn't meet any hiccups. Online performs 
 swell and looks just as good as when you're playing by yourself as well. While the graphics are 
 gorgeous, the same can't be said about the soundtrack. It's a rather odd mix of pop and rock that 
 probably won't be very pleasing to a wide audience. I just plugged my .mp3 player into my 360 and 
 played my tunes off that. Burnout Paradise does a stellar job with sound effects though; not surprisingly 
 however as the past games in the series have all had superb whooshes and whizzes that ratchets 
 up the sense of speed to that unparallel level that only Burnout games can achieve.
  
  
  Burnout Paradise really boils down to whether or not you're looking for an arcade styIe racer filled 
 with high-speed thrills. There aren't many other racing games in the same boat as Paradise and 
 even if it was your only choice, it's still a great choice. Sure it has some irritating design 
 choices and can be a little maddening at times, but it's still very fun. Although it lacks local 
 multiplayer, playing by yourself is still enjoyable, so don't worry if you can't play online. Really 
 though if you want an arcade styIe racer, you can't go wrong with Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSamus2500
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  Now, I've only really played Burnout 1 and Burnout 3, (Other than Paradise) And let me tell ya', 
 Paradise is easily the best Burnout - even racing - game I have ever played. If you haven't played 
 it, It's basically like NFS: Carbon, and Burnout put together. (I'll tell you why later) So, enough 
 with this, this is why I love Burnout Paradise.
  
  Graphics/Visual Appearance
  
  The graphics in Paradise City are absolutely amazing. And the brand-new "Night" feature Criterion 
 just released adds *Big Time* to that. Down to every brick on a building, every curb on a sidewalk, 
 every single part on a car is simply perfectly done. Sure, some times the crashes can be a little 
 out of reality, but still some of the best I've seen. The cars will shine like crazy in the sun, 
 and the new Bikes look even better. Don't believe me? Look for yourself. 
  
  So, Graphics:
  10/10 - Perfect! 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Now, Paradise is different from any 
 other Burnout game, the main gameplay is located in the streets of Paradise City, where you can 
 roam for hours just for fun. The whole city is a free-roam, why I said it was like Carbon. But 
 unlink Carbon, to engage in an event, you must find an intersection where one is held. There are 
 still classics like Road Rage and Race, but new ones like Marked Man, where you have to make it 
 to a point without being taken-down, and Stunt Run, where you have to get a certain amount of points 
 by doing several things. Also, instead of crashes this time, there is something called Showtime, 
 where you can roll and bounce your car through traffic to gain money and beat scores. The more 
 you look around the City, the more events you will find. Also a new addition for the free-roam, 
 are Drive-Thrus. These consist of Gas Stations ( Automatically fills your boost) , Auto Repair (Fixes 
 your car to perfect condition) and Paint Shops (Gives you a new paint job, but this is just for 
 looks) . Again, the more you wander, the more you will find. But, there is a downside to free-roam, 
 however. When you do an event, you cannot restart, you must win or lose. and the only way to redo 
 it, is to go all the way back to the start, and do it again. Usually it's OK, because you will 
 usually end at another event, and do that one, but for things like Burning Routes, it can be very 
 frustrating. Another thing I would like to see is a GPS system, where it tells you where to go, 
 also like Carbon. But, there is none. (For now, anyways)
  
  Gameplay:
  9.9/10 - 1 or 2 things I'd like to see, but overall very very fun.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in 
 Paradise is just as good as the graphics. Every tire screeching, every motor running, every crash 
 is perfectly synced, plus they're real car recordings. Very good for a game. But, the soundtrack 
 isn't so good, as usual. There are a few good songs, including the one and only Paradise City by 
 Guns N' Roses, but the rest kind of suck IMO. (Like the classical music put in there. Who the @$#6& 
 in their right mind would want to listen to Mozart while blowing up cars? But, still OK.
  
  Sound:
  10/10 - Perfect, but the soundtrack gets a 5.
  
  Cars:
  The cars in Paradise are 
 amazing. You can get up to 70-something cars (Sorry, but I forget the real number at the moment) 
 All of which you can get a customized version by winning a Burning Route. To unlock a new car, 
 you must do one of 4 things:
  1. Win an event
  2. Get a certain number of wins, and "Shut it Down to own it" during free-roam
  3. Upgrade your 
 license
  4. Find something in the game (Like smash all 400 gates)
  And now, with the Bikes, there is even more to do. (But the bikes are also limited to Burning Ride, 
 and Midnight Ride as events) Overall, I'm very pleased.
  
  Cars:
  9/10 - Customization would be cool, but we'll have to wait for it.
  
  Overall:
  Very VERY 
 good game, I recommend it to everyone in to Burnout and Racing games. If you like Burnout 3, you'll 
 love Paradise. And the best part is, Criterion is always tweaking the game, and adding new features 
 as updates. Who knows, when you read this you might have double what it is now, but there's always 
 something to look forward to. It's a must have game. 
  
  Overall:
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman455
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise.
  Yes paradise does very much describe this game, especially if your big into racing games. this 
 game delivers in every aspect you would expect from a racing or burnout series game. first thing 
 i would like to point out is the gameplay length.
  
  Game Length. The length of this game is phenomenal. thats best how i can describe it this game 
 is absolutely huge, there so much you can do whether the challenges or not and they've released 
 and expansion that has added many more events and cars. there tons of freeburning challenges you 
 can do just while cruising around the city. i will have an update of this on the bike pack when 
 its released. i haven't even completed this game and i've had it for over a month, now granted 
 i don't play 24-7 like some people do but i must have logged well over 30 hours and its not even 
 complete yet.
  
  Gameplay. The gameplay is what you would expect from a burnout game; fast paced car crashing racing 
 action. Now however this game is not without its flaws. one of my biggest problems with the game 
 is that when you are in a race and you crash and you get a "driveaway" crash meaning it doesnt 
 reset your car but your spun way out and maybe even on a different road you want to be on making 
 you have to reset yourself and this is frustrating and dumb. That was my biggest thing with the 
 game that i didnt like there are a few minor things that dont really hinder the overall game depending 
 on how picky you are. also random cars popping out of what seems to be nowhere and your crashed 
 really sucks but its not that often or a big deal. also the songs are sometiems annoying but thats 
 what custom soundtracks are for.
  
  The Graphics in this game and the special effects are also great definitely worthy of next gen 
 unlike alot of recent games
  
  so all in all id give the length about 9.8
  and the game play a 8.9
  and the graphics 9
  and i would give the overall game a 9.2 but ill 
 round down on gamespots rating to a 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDuntBanMe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Did you like Revenge? You'll love Paradise.
  
  Story: N/A
  
  Yeah, uh, there's no real story here.
  
  Setting: 10/10
  
  Paradise City is the typical 
 "All-American City" featuring loads of roads and even a freeway. From the hustle and bustle of 
 Downtown Paradise to the rural switchbacks of White Mountain, there's a metric ton of blacktop 
 for you to re-pave and pothole.
  
  While the idea of a coastal city hitting into a very rural mountain setting, all in one city, is 
 a bit unbelievable and is just generally insane, it's so well done you can't help but not notice 
 the impossibility of it all.
  
  It's plausible, at any rate, and not unheard of. Like, uh, Seattle... I think.
  
  All the alleys 
 and the twisting roads is very cool. There's even a shut down railway system you can drive along. 
 All the construction also allows for all the ramps and holes.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  Burnout Paradise takes from all the previous Burnouts for this one. It's a complete revamp. No 
 physics have been recycled, no feature left unaltered. It's back to formula.
  
  The majority of the game is spent in Freeburn. It's just free-roaming around Paradise City, exploring 
 all the nooks and crannies of it all. While for a car game this could be incredibly boring and 
 inane, remember this is Burnout.
  
  Race through the traffic (or plow right through it) , hit jumps, drop off bridges, race along the 
 freeways and train tracks, and just have a blast. It goes further than that though. There are loads 
 of secrets to find around Paradise. There's 400 Smash Gates (drive right through them to discover 
 shortcuts or other things) , 120 Billboards (plow through them for a Boost refill/increase) , and 
 50 Super Jumps (ramps leading to extreme jumps) . Not to mention 120 Events and the various Drive-Thrus 
 around town. You'll be busy, that I can assure you.
  
  When you're not Freeburning, you're playing Events or breaking Road Rules. Let's start with Events.
 
  
  Events are split up into Races, Road Rages, Marked Mans, Stunt Runs, and Burning Routes. You activate 
 them by going to a traffic light intersection and spinning your wheels.
  
  Races are just a race against one, five, or seven other racers to a specific point in the City. 
 You can take the main course... or pick your own route, however convoluted. That's right, there's 
 no walls of arrows to keep you on course. It's all completely up to you how you get there. Awesome.
 
  
  Road Rages are where you take your car and make scrap metal out of others, while they try to make 
 scrap metal out of you. Takedown as many others as you possibly can before you take on too much 
 damage. Again, you can take the battle all around town.
  
  Marked Mans are Bizarro Road Rages. Basically, the other drivers have you in their crosshairs, 
 and have super-tough cars to take you out. You, on the other hand, have to reach a point in Paradise 
 before they beat you up too much. Once more, the whole town is open.
  
  Stunt Runs are where you just try to pull off as many amazing stunts as you can. Jumps, spins, 
 drifts, barrel rolls... a world of stunts before you. And once again, take your craziness across 
 the town.
  
  Burning Routes are races against the clock... with a twist. You must use a specific car to do the 
 job. Emphasis on finding your own, faster route is placed on these, but if you win, you get a different, 
 usually better version of the car you ran with.
  
  And then the Road Rules. Each of the many streets in Paradise has a Speed Rule (race from one end 
 of the street to the other as fast as you can) and a Showtime (basically the old Crash Mode on 
 steroids, where you make your car roll around town using Boost and crashing into the daily commute) .
 
  
  You can even Freeburn online and play with your friends! When you take them down, you exchange 
 mugshots if you have a special camera hooked up to the X-Box! And you can even get Road Rules from 
 other racers, and even take them out in a Showtime event!
  
  Wait, I'm still not done. The crash system is well improved. Sometimes, you can just drive away 
 from a crash, just taking damage. The car even retains the crunches, dents, and lost doors. Amazing.
 
  
  Hang on, the traffic system is also amazing. It will actually dodge out of the way now. Yes. They 
 will scoot out of your way. And that ain't all. While it's a bit more... realistic than in Revenge, 
 traffic checking is back. While if you take a head on plunge into most same-way you'll crash and 
 burn, tougher cars can just plow through the small time traffic with ease.
  
  Wait, there's more. There's three types of Boost! Stunt (typical, run-of-the-mill) , Aggression 
 (increases size with takedowns, decreases when taken down) , and Speed (can't use until full, but 
 can use Burnout Chaining to boost forever with dangerous driving) .
  
  Wait, that's still not all. Occasionally, other Burners will appear around town in their own rides. 
 If you see them (they're easy to spot) , shut them down to take their car and add it to your collection.
 
  
  Wait, still not done. There's also four kinds of Drive-Thru. Junk Yards (switch your cars) , Auto 
 Repairs (repair your cars 100%) , Gas Stations (refill Boost 100%) , and Paint Shops (change your 
 paint job) .
  
  Still not done. The more Events you clear, the higher level license you get. As you get higher 
 level licenses, you'll unlock better cars, and get tougher Events, and the amount of traffic in 
 Paradise also increases.
  
  Is that it yet? Nope. Power Parking. Basically, it's parallel parking at 240 miles per hour with 
 a 180 spin to face the right direction, without dinging anything. Yeah, it's possible.
  
  It ain't over yet! There's also a Podcast for Crash FM, the in-game radio station. Subscribe, and 
 even send in e-mails. If you're lucky, they'll be read live on the air! You'll also get the inside 
 information on all things Burnout, straight from Criterion Games themselves!
  
  Not it yet! Rest a bit and you'll be given Picture Paradise, a monochrome tour of Paradise City, 
 without all the blistering racing and crashing and chaos. It's even accompanied by classical music 
 by the likes of Bach and such. Wow.
  
  Is that it? Is that everything? Looks like it...
  
  Wow... amazing, ain't it?
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Racing down the street in your compact, 
 you hear the whine of the engine, begging you to stop, the blaze of the Boost, urging it on, the 
 squeal of brakes as the daily commute tries to get out of the way.
  
  When suddenly, BAM! You hit a wall at full speed, perpendicular, head on. You now hear the crunch 
 of your compact further compacting. You start skidding along the ground, sparks left in your wake.
 
  
  The sounds in the game are realistic, amazing, and of great quality. You want better? Good luck 
 with that; these are the best racing game sounds you'll ever hear.
  
  And the music? While the standard of contracted musicians is still carried over from Revenge, tracks 
 from previous Burnouts made by Criterion return to make themselves known.
  
  It's a world-class menagerie of music. And the best part? You can turn off the tracks you despise, 
 and change the current one with the tap of an easily accessible button, in the middle of all the 
 action, without skipping a beat. Amazing.
  
  Oh, wait, and the music even gets a Treble high when you're airborne, and a Bass high when you 
 crash. That's just cool.
  
  And during Picture Paradise, classical music plays, like at an orchestra. Soft, calming music, 
 at that. Huh. Cool.
  
  Control: 10/10
  
  You use very few buttons on the controller. Thank God for that. It's really easy to control your 
 car... if you have a controllable car, that is. Some cars are tougher to handle than others, so 
 you'll be using your brakes to drift... which is easy to do. Boosting is a snap. It's almost like 
 the controller was molded for this game.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  B-E-A-Utiful. The cars shine in the sun. They pile up damage. Shards of glass fly everywhere. They 
 dent. They fall apart. They spark and explode and... wow.
  
  The textures are also surprisingly detailed for a blistering racing game... then again, you do 
 spend a lot of time crashing.
  
  Oh, the visual effects are just plain cool. When you crash, everything tints blue, unless you wreck, 
 in which case, it's... well, I don't know what it is. It's halfway between vivid color and monochrome. 
 It's... odd.
  
  It doesn't stop at crashes. In the Events where you have health, the view also gets the same odd 
 effect as you take damage. In Showtime, it also holds true as you run out of boost.
  
  Cool, eh?
  
  Replay: 10/10
  
  Come on. So many unlockables, X-Box Live, Road Rules, all 
 that jazz. This game has unlimited replay! How can you not want to replay, even after you've gotten 
 the best license? The game isn't over yet, pal!
  
  It's never over!
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  Buy/Borrow/Barf: Buy
  
  Casual games will like the game for its easygoing 
 pace, hardcore gamers for the blistering speed you can reach in mere seconds. All the unlockables 
 will keep even the most hardcore of the hardcore working. Heck, I've barely hit 50%, and I've got 
 a Class A license and have played since the day after release!
  
  Burnout Paradise has done what I thought was impossible. It surpassed Burnout Revenge as one of 
 the most solid, amazing racing experiences ever.
  
  I stand by what I said before. While you weirdos may pick your Twilight Princess or your Halo 2 
 for the greatest game of all time...
  
  Burnout Paradise is built on the foundations of fun. You play this game not to beat it, but to 
 have more fun than you could ever think possible. Even when you get beaten by other racers online, 
 you'll do one thing. Not scream. Not yell. Laugh.
  
  And after all, isn't that what we need the most? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack90attack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game has had a long way to get here.
  
  I would like to say that Burnout Paradise differs from the other series in a lot of ways The Goods:
 
  -Crash part of the game gone YAY!
  -Same traffic check gone too (great move! made the game better and realistic)
  -Available in 
 HD!!
  -Free rome in the city
  
  The Bads:
  -2 player GONE : ( -Some times when your going fast things ahead get blurry BAD!
  -At the end 
 you are left with 50 races to do a lot at one shot :S
  
  The Goodies are a lot in this game :)
  I have personaly liked burnout ever since burnout came 
 out played every game untill now but none of them has ever made it like Burnout Paradise did
  
  If your thinking about this game go for it, it'll get you rolling and into the actoin in no 
 time :D
  
  If the price you think is getting you in questoin don't think just buy it's that good ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sodney
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the fastest game for the xbox 360 and it is also incredibly fun and addictive.
 
  
  This game is huge. It has a lot of challenges for you to complete. One of the bad things is that 
 you have to race most of the races several times. Because when your rank increases, the races has 
 to be done again but then they will be harder. One thing many people doesn't like is that when 
 you fail at a race you can't restart it, you have to drive back to the starting line again. Of 
 course, the better thing to do is just try out another race or just drive around and explore paradise 
 city to try and find all the superjumps, billboards and gate smashes.
  
  The framerate in this game is perfect and the cars sound incredible. The graphics are also very 
 great. A crazy thing about this game is that criterion adds new stuff for the game every now and 
 then. I don't mean small thing but big ones like motorcycles, new cars, new challenges, new areas 
 and a day and night cycle. That means this game grows all the time and just keeps on getting better. 
 Everyone that likes driving fast should really get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myara
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok, great game, interesting way of choosing challenges. Good graphics. And still, don't feel like 
 an A+ game. Where's all that "funfactor" that burbout 3 delivered on the original XBox. the map 
 is interesting, and there is massive options of paths to go through, but even this can make it 
 feel a little senseless. At some point you may ask "if there is no path defined, i'm just battling 
 with others, but exactly who am i battling against?" (cause opponents seems to appear from nowhere 
 and go to nowhere an instant latter) . On the good side, the phisics are really good, the graphics 
 and sounds are very good too. Maybe the offline multiplayer that is missing, would add some value 
 to the game and make it a 9 or 9.5. I recommend the title, but don't expect the best car game ever, 
 or you will surely be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  This classic arcade  racer has been a classic since the first 
 of its series. The visual damaging effects are better than any game I've witnessed. But 
 I wouldn't go as far to say that this is the "best' in the series, but it sure satisfies 
 your "End-of-the-work-day frustrations when you're stuck in traffic and can't wait to get 
 home and play this gameWho needs rush hour?? 
  
  The cars I found to be a bit morewell"classic," compared to previous burnout titles, and be warned; 
 they aren't real cars like you would see in Forza, even though some might look similar to 
 something from your local junk yard. As for newer renditions to the older titles; you will find 
 the following in this game: A junk yard sort of a safe house where you can store your cars 
 before the race along with other roaming world venues, such as gas stations (to re-boost 
 nitro) , repair stations, and "yes, you will actually have to start your own car this time." 
 Well just hit the right trigger, and you'll see what I mean. 
  
  As for the title name, "paradise," it its driving world really didn't look like one, although some 
 occasional ocean side winding roads did catch my eye. The races are fast and addicting, 
 and the mission here is to keep winning races to upgrade your license. It's kind of like 
 going to the DMV, and getting one renewed, except you don't have to wait in the boring line: 
 It just reads: "upgraded in so-many" wins! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivendidoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  For those of you who may have never heard of the burnout series, or may not be interested in any 
 kind of racing game, listen up. Burnout has never been your usual Forza, or your bi-yearly Gran 
 Turismo, but it is surely not just you average sim racer. The burnout series grinds the lines of 
 making the player take annual risks in order to surpass the race in first. If your not first, your 
 definitely not going to win.
  In Burnout Paradise, you are granted a major city free to drive around in, a first for the Burnout 
 series. So you must find out a way around traffic to get to your destination on time. There are 
 several kinds of race types in the new game. There are, your burning routes which you must go from 
 point A to point B under a certain time in a certain car alone. Road Rage is also back, but the 
 Criterion Games knows it can not make another burnout without the Road Rage primed. This game type 
 sets a number you must meet or surpass. This counter represents your take downs, which are the 
 vehicles you try to crash by any means necessary. Your annual Races obviously get you from point 
 A to point B and sometimes it is only a 1 on 1 one race, sometimes its a 7 or 8 man race (including 
 the player) . Stunt run is a game type that lets the player do tricks either off of ramps, over 
 a dam, over a bridge, or into a gravel pit. Doing so increases your multiplier in that game type 
 and you are able to gain more points. Last and not least is Marked Man, this is also a first for 
 the burnout series. If in road rage you go after other A. I., Marked man now makes you the target 
 with heavily fast and dangerous cars trying to take you out before you make your destination.
 
  Burnouts sound is amazing, most cars may feel like part of their engine was recycled from the 
 last, but every car sounds the same. Most cars mainly sound similar because of the car types. Aggressors 
 are cars built for damage, lower speeds but have a higher boost range, speed cars obviously have 
 more speed a little less boost and a lot less reinforcements for impact zones, and stunt cars are 
 used for, well, stunts. The stunt class is the most well rounded in that it can take a descent 
 amount of damage, has descent speed, and good boosting abilities. With that said, each class has 
 its own cars that sound very similar to one another, but every class sounds extremely different. 
 Whether you hear the whip of the exhaust sputter or the whine of the turbo booster, it definitely 
 pacts a punch for every car. 
  The city also has its nesting grounds in sound. As cars zoom past the will honk in dismay of cutting 
 them off or just plain on the wrong side of the street. Tires screech like hot rubber melting on 
 top of 200 degree asphalt as you or the other cars whiz by. When boosting past these cars not only 
 do the cars booster coming clearly and loudly, but you can also hear the wind and see a slight 
 blur affect in the seance of speed that criterion gives you in every car, either slow or fast.
 
  For as much sound and cars and miles to drive that criterion offers you from the get go and seamless 
 almost no load times, it still is amazing how criterion managed to pack the graphics nicely into 
 the scope of the game. Everything is well rot and lush. The only times you may experience some 
 sloppy blends might be when you crash then fly way to far away from the set roads. Their bumps, 
 specularities, normal maps, even water texture seems to have its own sense of style and dangerous 
 fun to it all. Which makes the burnout experience fun and enjoyable. Criterion also manged to give 
 one more snippets as to why it's new racer is considered next generation, free updates.
  With these, Criterion has come out with its first update called the Cagney update, which is an 
 over haul of fixes and tweaks along with more online challenges as race types to complete along 
 with about 4 more cars. The next update is not going to be out till September, but Criterion promises 
 to have bikes, (another first) in the update along with a full on whether and day and night cycle 
 for the new update titled their Bikes update. The last update will be an add on of the initial 
 city that you will be able to discover more with and potentially more challenges and race types 
 to complete. Rumor has it that by the times this update is complete, the total city size should 
 be around 1.5 times the original size the game was shipped with.
  All in all, Burnout paradise was great in its release, but is one of the few games that keeps on 
 giving with its free updates and expansions. The sound is still great and spectacular to watch 
 the crashes, even if you did not intentionally hit that car going well over 100 miles per hour. 
 Everything just feels solid and tight even around its controls. Burnout will always be in the hearts 
 of its fans, and also in those that might take a gander at the possibility of purchasing a well 
 made game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start with a game like this? Let's just get this out of the way first... This game is 
 AWESOME! Alright now onto the breakdown.
  
  The visuals as all Burnout fans are well aware of are absolutely stunning. The great locales that 
 you traverse in Paradise are varied and each with their own appeal. You want bustling city streets? 
 Got it. Sparse countryside racing? Got it. Beach side views? Yep it's there. I've had a blast just 
 searching throughout Paradise for all the hidden areas to play in and there's plenty of them too. 
 Everything is beautifully rendered in this game. The crashes are all you'd want from a Burnout... although 
 there is no Crash Mode this time around, which is really my only gripe with the game. However that 
 said there's still plenty of other events to engage in whether that be outrunning the competition 
 in a 8 person race, taking down rivals via Road Rage or simply tracking down all the jumps, smashes 
 and billboards scattered throughout Paradise. this game definitely will keep you busy through it's 
 freeroam build.
  
  The variety in rides is great. There's three classes of car. Want to burn the roads? Speed's your 
 game. Got anger issues? Let it out with an Aggressive ride. Feeling the need to soar? Grab a Stunt 
 car. There's plenty to choose from in each class, many different styles from muscle cars to tuners 
 to old junker trucks to F-1 Formula racers and with the Bike pack just around the corner the variety 
 ante just got upped. 
  
  With the pricetag for this game now sitting at just $30 and the extra content that's found on Xbox 
 Live for free, why in the world would you not have this game? As a matter of fact if you don't 
 have this game already, stop reading right now and go buy your copy... I said GO, leave now! You 
 owe it to yourself to take a cruise in Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, but at first it is really overwhelming. The fact that you can't restart a race 
 is pretty annoying, but you'll adjust to the game's new features. The graphics are amazing and 
 the variety of cars is excellent. The game is worth buying because of of the content, and the extra, 
 free, downloadable content. Another nuisance in the game is whenever you crash and "wreck" your 
 car, it always shows a cutscene of the crash, and if you suck at this game, then be prepared to 
 see many cutscenes. 
  
  The good: Graphics, cars, freeroam, content, length, events
  
  The bad: its overwhelming, crash cutscenes 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Starting note: My Xbox Live was malfunctioning at the time so I did not have the chance to play 
 online, so this is only based on single player.
  Now, the first thing you notice when you are paying Burnout Paradise is the amazing graphics, and 
 I emphasise on the cars, they are truly remarkable.
  Second is how smooth the control system works. Trigger acceleration and braking is very easy to 
 get used to and it works great.
  The first event you enter will most likely be a race. The races are very enjoyable and can sometimes 
 be quite challenging with all the traffic.
  The first time you crash you will be wowed by the significance of the smashing car. Different situations 
 will result in different crash sequences; stuffed up barrel rolls, I think, look the best.
  Of equal enjoyment is take downs. Whilst racing or pursuing another car you can run them into the 
 side of the road or into an oncoming car and they will crash much in the same nature as when you 
 crash.
  Other events are fun aswell, but there arent alot of them.
  Cars are fun to collect, and they range from cool looking sports cars to rusty utes and even to 
 vintage cars. All of them look great.
  Theatre is an interesting mode, but I can't say I enjoyed it all that much. All you really do is 
 lauch yourself into stupid cars that fling themselves at you.
  Going off ramps and jumps is great! Even more so when you break a billboard. But nothing can top 
 the glory of perfecting a barrel roll, it looks fantastic.
  
  Now this game doesn't have many flaws, but the crashes, after a while, suffer from repetition. 
 One crash that will get old fast is the head on collision, it looks great to start off with, but 
 after doing it a lot, you find yourself wishing there was a skip button. The one crash that I still 
 find enjoyable is the failed barrel roll, it may be because I don't see them very much.
  Races remain enjoyable, but the lack of variety in track routes can leave you a little bored at 
 times, but still, it's fun.
  
  Burnout Paradise is a great driving game for Xbox 360 (and PS3) . The visuals are astonishing, the 
 controls are innovative, the gameplay is great and the overall package that is Burnout Paradise 
 if defiantely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmat_tycoon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise. I just picked it up at my local eb games and i was very excited. I played the 
 demo and loved it. The game, is amazing. When i say GTA without the T I mean it. An impeccable 
 open world enviroment complete with 100s of events, and things to unlock. A must for any Burnout 
 fan or racing fan. Even if you are not even remotely interested in racing games, this is a cut 
 above. Amazing graphics, great gameplay and superb online. The only flaw is no split screen multiplayer, 
 but other then that, it is the greatest racing game in the history of  
 it Now! only 29.99 so it is the best time to get it since it just dropped so yeah!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ffenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  - You'll only encounter the load screen once when you pop in the game disc.
  - Large open world; discovering the nooks and crannies in Paradise will get you hooked for hours.
 
  - Road Rage and Stunt Run modes are the most addicting and satisfying aspects of the game.
  - Showtime mode (previously called Crash mode) offers instant gratification.
  - Seamless transition 
 between offline and online modes.
  - Despite being an arcade-style driving game, the difference between different types of cars are 
 more pronounced than its predecessors.
  
  Cons:
  - In Race mode, rubber band AI is very evident and sometimes luck is needed to win.
  - Showtime 
 mode does feel a bit tacked on and a little silly.
  - Xbox Live Vision camera is needed to gain certain achievements.
  - Minor graphical hiccups, 
 but not enough to detract from the experience.
  
  Verdict:
  The mayhem and destruction you'll experience in Burnout Paradise, offline and especially online, 
 will keep you playing until next Burnout game is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of previous Burnout games, but this one has taken a different track, literally.
 
  
  Free world burning is pretty fun, at first, but eventually you start wishing for more areas to 
 explore.
  
  Driving in traffic gets very very hard, especially as you get faster cars late game. Often times 
 it seems like cars come out of nowhere to crunch your beautiful Italian 10,000 horsepower car into 
 a glorified metal raisin (which is visually spectacular) . Never-the-less, it becomes annoying, 
 especially when you crash near the end of a race and lose.
  
  Visually, the game is a masterpiece. Shiny cars and exquisitely detailed crashes will easily please 
 the eye, but you really need a large high-def TV in order to make out the mini-map icons- they're 
 so small as to be illegible on old school TVs.
  
  The good news is updates are on the way. EA is putting out a free update soon that will include 
 motorcycles (!!!) and a brand new area to explore.
  
  Overall, worth ~$35, if only for the visuals and many hours of gameplay you could get out of it. 
 But if you're looking for depth, best look elsewhere.
  
  -Scotman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise gives out an open world to explore so where ever you go you will find a new territory. 
 This keeps you from being bored. It has a great variety of car selection but I wish if it had more 
 cars to choose from. The graphics are just amazing.. hands down. One of the sharpest and yet realistic 
 car racing game I have EVER seen. When I first began playing this game , I thought the car was 
 real! The graphics give in a good appeal as if you were in a real car. What really impressed me 
 in this game was that you could also do these crazy stunts. Backflip, Rollover, etc. This game 
 has a ton of replay value. The bad thing about this game is that there is no one in the car which 
 makes the car racing a bit too fake. Criteon (company) brought us an update with new modes including 
 crash mode online and more. The one that I'm really expecting is the motorcycle update which includes 
 a person in a motorcycle never done in a Burnout game. What really excites me in this game is that 
 when you crash everytime it looks so realistic as if I'm watching a news incident about this car 
 crashing into the wall. This game brings what the future Burnout game should be like. The bad thing 
 is that you cannot play splitscreen multiplayer so if you don't want to play online with ppl you 
 don't know then thats too bad. Even though there is no splitscreen multiplayer there are WAY more 
 things to do in single player mode which has over 20hrs of gameplay. This game is worth the money, 
 I recommend all of you to buy this game. The cost of this game is pretty cheap usually games are 
 like around $60. Burnout Paradise cost $40. It seems like it gave you more than what you bought! 
 :D Amazing game!!!! 9.5/10= Superb/ Almost Perfect just some few minor things that need to be added 
 in th game like more cars and needs splitscreen. Other than that Its a craaaazy car racing game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Burnout is back, in an age where every racing game developer is trying to approach a sim like experience 
 Criterion follows the destructive path of pure fun.
  Every game in the franchise until now has thrown in only simple tweaks to the formula, like the 
 introduction of Takedowns and the Revenge factor, Criterion has managed to hold on their success 
 and even though the previous games where still fun it was running out of fresh ideas and starting 
 to turn into a yearly franchise and the case that of quantity over quality, and let's stop right 
 here cause I could express my opinions towards the publisher and drag this review into a different 
 path...
  
  Welcome to Paradise! Criterion felt like their first true outing on the new generation of consoles 
 (i'm not considering Burnout Revenge for the 360 a true next generation game) should be remarkable 
 and revamp the Burnout series considerably. Instead of taking the player through the world in linear 
 tracks, they've embraced the open world approach, allowing for everyone to choose how to progress 
 through the game, with different race modes spread around the map. The race modes now are:
  
  --Marked man- where the player has the start marker and the finish marker, and while he tries 
 to reach the finishing line, ruthless AI controlled cars will try to take you down;
  --Race- there's also a start marker, finish marker and the player has to reach the finishing line 
 in first place against as much as 7 AI controlled cars.
  --Road Rage- You are given a number of takedowns to accomplish that progressively increase as you 
 complete these challenges
  --Stunt- The goal is to reach a number of points while drifting, using boost, gaining air jumping 
 through gaps scattered around the map, crashing through the "smash" fences and billboards, and 
 might I say this mode isn't well implemented enough and sometimes you won't be able to chain these 
 things together to reach the absurdly high scores you're asked to accomplish later on in the game
 
  --Burning Route- For each car you earn there is a "Burning route" which is a time-attack race 
 which earns you the ultimate version of that car if you finish it within the time. One of the weak 
 points in the game also shows here, cause you'll sometimes drive from one edge of the map to the 
 other to start these races and if you fail you can't simply retry with the press of a button so 
 you'll have to drive all that way back to the "Burning Route" location to drive it again in case 
 you might fail it again.
  
  In top of all this there's the alternative to the Crash mode found in previous games: Showtime
 
  While you are relentlessly, aimlessly driving you can at anytime hold the two bumper buttons of 
 the gamepad and start crashing around, jumping and destroying the traffic in your way, collecting 
 multipliers from any bus you hit, until your showtime meter's empty (your boost meter will state 
 the showtime meter once you enter this mode and it will fill a bit for each traffic car you hit) . 
 With Showtime you can set a new record for each of the roads in map (there's 250 miles of asphalt 
 for you to wreck havoc in case you are wondering!) , and if you are online these records will be 
 submitted and the other players can try to beat your score.
  
  Now let's try to sum the multiplayer experience... so you are playing by yourself on the huge map 
 and you want to crash against human beings such as yourself, so you'll access the multiplayer options 
 on the Directional buttons, choose a host of host a online game yourself and voila, you and the 
 other players appear on the map in the same spot where they were in the single player game, and 
 the players will drive freely through the map just like in the single player until the host chooses 
 if there'll be a race, a road rage, a boost dispute... whatever, you get the idea, the multiplayer 
 is seamlessly implemented. You'll earn achievements for the online challenges you beat, you'll 
 make online rivals, and when you are tired of destructive socializing you simply drop out and you'll 
 continue driving from where you were but now in single player.
  
  The presentation is great, the menus have a great design and are simple to use, the graphics engine 
 is great and it could be called realistic if you were not crashing your car to have it shiny and 
 new in two seconds and if you weren't driving so fast that your reflexes don't work, only your 
 intuition. =)
  
  The sound is great, the car engine roars and helps a lot to give the great sense of speed only 
 this game delivers, when you crash in showtime mode all the cars use their horns, the tires screech 
 when you use the handbrake...
  Now the soundtrack... well it features Guns N' Roses' "Paradise City", Alice In Chains's "Would?", 
 Faith No More's "Epic", "My Curse" from Killswitch Engage and... Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend"... Now 
 everyone's tastes in music are subjective, but how many people who enjoy's teen pop rock are there 
 in Burnout's target audience? It doesn't help the feeling of adrenaline provided by the game's 
 speed and destruction. But we've got Xbox 360's music player and the recent Cagney Update also 
 added this feature for PS3 users. so top notch sound effects.
  
  The gameplay is great, each car handles differently, and you can feel the difference between Stunt 
 cars, Aggression cars and Speed cars.
  
  Now about value... well, 250 miles of road, 74 cars to unlock, about 5 licenses to master, 5 distinct 
 race types, leaderboards, achievements, a completely separate number of online challenges and events... and 
 soon we'll be able to ride Motorbikes for the first time in the franchise's history, a Day/Night 
 cycle, and more content coming soon from Criterion... so YEAH great value!
  
  If you are looking for pure entertainment and adrenaline this game was made for you, If you can't 
 handle extreme speed and destruction you can go somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  In Burnout Paradise's intro the game boasts of itself calling it "A driving experience like no 
 other". Bold statements like this are seen on the back of just about any video game box, but in 
 the case of Burnout Paradise, there are plenty of bragging rights. 
  
  The previous Burnout games are mainly known for its insane crashes, speed, and multi-player. When 
 I picked the game up I didn't realize that it was a single player game only. If you have Xbox Live 
 you will get some multi-player experience, if not, you're gonna have to go it alone. I was a bit 
 disappointed at first at the lack of local multi player, but after soaking in Paradise City for 
 just a little while, I realized that I would not have it any other way. Burnout Paradise is a huge 
 place to drive around and explore. The city has dozens of streets, a junkyard, baseball field, 
 suburbs, city limits, and just about any other place you need for some good exploring. Without 
 a good map and compass you would be completely lost. The map displays all of the city's main locations 
 and streets. Getting lost in Paradise city is actually a good experience though. I have found myself 
 just driving around for hours, crashing, jumping ramps, and finding new areas to explore. The city 
 also has a ton of stoplights. When you pull up to a stoplight you can press the right and left 
 trigger to compete in the event at that stoplight. The events include racing, marked man, burning 
 route, and road rage to name several. In racing you will have to race 7 other opponents from one 
 location in the city to the next. Boost power is usually a necessity for winning races because 
 your competition is just as fast and thirsty for victory as you are. You can increase your boosting 
 power by drifting, getting air on big jumps, and by taking down your opponents. In the marked man 
 event you must get from one location in the city to the next before other cars who are out to take 
 you down total your car. In road rage you must road rage you must take down a number of cars before 
 the given time limit runs out. There are more events than these, but I won't go into each and every 
 one of them. The purpose of completing these events is to primarily work towards getting a better 
 license. Having a better license will allow you to compete in more difficult events and drive newer 
 cars. Completing specific events also allows you to unlock new vehicles. The game will alert you 
 when a new vehicle is riding around Paradise City for the taking. When you meet the vehicle on 
 the streets of Paradise, it will most unlikely be driving fast and furiously. It's up to you to 
 chase it down, take it out, and then the car is delivered to your junkyard. There are dozens and 
 dozens of cars to be unlocked. 
  
  Also spread throughout Paradise City are gas stations, repair shops, and paint shops. If your car 
 is damaged you can drive right through a repair shop and it will instantly repair it while you 
 are still driving. The gas stations completely recharge your boost, and the paint shops give your 
 vehicle a new look. Burnout Paradise still has awesome crashes if you're wondering. One of the 
 most crazy awesome features is the "show time" mode. When you wreck your vehicle you can press 
 LB+RB to go into "show time" mode. When in show time mode you can press A to make your car jump 
 around the streets, running into herds of oncoming traffic. Causing lots and lots of explosions 
 and car pile ups. Each time you press A in show time your boost meter dips a bit, but every time 
 you crash into another vehicle your boost power goes up. So the game encourages the insane crashes 
 as it should. And unlike other Burnout games you can explore and crash whenever you like. The crashes 
 in the other games always affected your race, but here you're completely free to have fun. Burnout 
 Paradise is a very slick looking game. The sound effects are all spot on. And the disc jockey from 
 SSX 3 plays as the game's announcer, which is a good thing. The music soundtrack stinks in my opinion. 
 But others will find a lot to like probably. It mainly consists of hard rock, emo, garage, punk, 
 and a little electronic as well. The only gripe I have with the game is its lack of local multi 
 player. Thankfully the single player makes up for it nicely. Burnout Paradise really is a driving 
 experience like no other, just as the game boasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bonkie101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I remember when Burnout came out, it was racing with an emphases on crashing. It was different 
 then, but now it just seems overdone, especially in an open-world environment that seems too similar 
 to Need for Speed: Most Wanted.
  
  The game starts out with you being given a car in a junk yard, which for some reason is free. Everything 
 is free; the cars, the repairs, the pain you can put on the car. Then again, Burnout racing has 
 never really tried to be realistic. But I guess that's what makes it so addicting.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, and the controls are even better. It's nice to play a game where 
 you can actually turn and drift, unlike some games on the 360 (such as Forza 2) . The damage looks 
 realistic but the crashes are a bit over-exaggerated.
  
  Speaking of the crashes, one thing I'd like to point out is that there are a couple of new types 
 of Takedowns, but at the cost of three very useful Takedowns from previous games. You can now takedown 
 a car by grinding them against the wall for a period of time. This is known as a Grinding Takedown. 
 Another new type is the T-Bone Takedown, which is achieved by T-Boning another racer.
  
  The two takedowns that have been removed are the Double Takedown, which you perform by either crashing 
 two racers into each other, or causing two takedowns within seconds of each other. This was a great 
 way to rack up two takedowns towards the takedown goal in a road rage race.
  
  Another removed takedown is the Revenge Takedown. This is where you take down the driver that last 
 took you down. It's nice to get a rivalry going, but without the revenge meter from Burnout: Revenge 
 or any type of rivalry system in racing, it's probably a good thing it was removed.
  
  The other removed takedown I have forgotten the name of, but it's when you either wreck or are 
 taken down and another racer slams into you before you resume racing. It was a great way of slowing 
 down the competition, and while these still happen, you don't get a takedown added for them.
  
  Another problem with the game is that when you do the time trial road rule and you crash, the 
 crash is shown to you in slow motion yet the time still ticks at normal speed, losing you valuable 
 seconds. This is sometimes frustrating, especially on the shorter streets where you don't have 
 a lot of time and you can't get enough speed after a wreck to beat it. The good thing is, though, 
 that you don't need a super fast car to beat the times, so you can usually use a car with more 
 handling in order to avoid crashing.
  
  So while the graphics are good, the controls are excellent and the open-world environment is promising, 
 the game is far from perfect. It will, however, keep you coming back for more despite its lack 
 of "features" found in previous games that veterans of the series will probably miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Barreling down the Interstate as what seem speeds not meant for humans, you put pressure down on 
 the brakes as you drift towards the next exit narrowly escaping impact with the concrete wall. 
 The angry punk behind you isn't as lucky as he explodes on contact with oncoming traffic. You scrape 
 against the left guard rail of the ramp leading downtown. 
  
  Flying through red lights with no regret and a little prayer for each one, you spot the broken 
 bridge ahead. You got off one exit too soon. There's no time to find another route, you stay your 
 course. Upon take off time seems to slow as you fly across the gap. The landing is all that matters. 
 And land you do, right into the back of a bus. Welcome to Paradise City, get your ass back to the 
 junk yard. 
  
  Burnout Paradise is a game that never strays from its open-world sincerity, for better or worse. 
 Previously the series has had restrictive progression, leaving you with little choice in how you 
 play. Think classic unlock-to-proceed structure. Paradise liberates the player, granting a freedom 
 not normally seen in this type of game. 
  
  As you compete in events you are never restricted to one area. Not even as you start up the game 
 for the first time are you limited to the type of events available or the portions of the city 
 you can speed through. It's the Burnout you know, set loose into a new world of possibilities and 
 frustrations. 
  
  Simultaneously managing the necessary components of racing can be a difficult task in Paradise. 
 The wall-grinding around corners to victory is no longer present, replaced by the GTA-esque mini-map 
 on the lower right side of the screen. It's not just for decoration, either. The map will become 
 your most trusted advisor, but also symbolizes the fundamental change that it has brought with 
 it to Burnout. This change is best described as giving the player the freedom to totally screw 
 up. 
  
  Burnout has never been a realistic driving simulation, and Paradise doesn't change that. But it 
 goes without saying that you'll find no invisible walls (or bright flashing arrows, for that matter) 
 to guide you on your way. Miss a turn and you'll need to turn around or hope there's another route 
 that will get you to where you're going.
  
  This is one of Paradise's twists on the formula and it ultimately pays off, after you've had some 
 time to adjust. But along the road you'll find it difficult to juggle keeping track of the mini-map, 
 and blasting along at supersonic speeds. There is a system in place that notifies you of the next 
 turn, as your car's turn signal starts ticking and the street signs at the top of the screen grow 
 larger. But too often will you see the blinking begin when it is too late to make the turn without 
 crashing. The best solution for this problem would have been a more detailed "suggested route" 
 line showing you where to make the next turn on the mini-map. 
  
  This same frustrating freedom of screwing up is one of the most adrenaline inducing aspects of 
 Paradise. The option to restart an event would have been nice though, considering how much time 
 you can spend finding your way back to a particular event after failure. And honestly, this smells 
 a bit of artificial extension, since there are a large number of Race and Burning Route events 
 that finish out in the middle of nowhere. With few traffic lights in the vicinity, you're forced 
 to haul ass back to the city just to begin or retry your next event. 
  
  The online FreeBurn Challenge system is peculiar. At times you'll find brilliance as you complete 
 entertaining cooperative tasks with several other players, chatting away with suggestions and directions. 
 But you'll also find yourself anxious, bored, and often exceedingly perturbed by the system, waiting 
 on the party leader to start a new challenge, or having a challenge cancelled when on the verge 
 of completion after a player suddenly leaves FreeBurn mode.
  
  Sure, this is more of a problem when you're taking on Challenges in a non-private session. But 
 it's also unreasonable to assume that people will have a group of friends available and wanting 
 to FreeBurn with them for great periods of time. And so a public Challenge session should be a 
 viable way to play online, but it simply isn't. There is no backup to when a player leaves the 
 session and erases the last 15 minutes of progress that every other player has helped with, and 
 it's absurd and frustrating to no end. 
  
  While FreeBurning you can also race against other players if setup by the party leader, but the 
 Road Rage mode is not available, which would be a lot more interesting. 
  
  Scattered around Paradise City you'll find Junkyards, Auto-Repairs, Gas Stations, and Paint Shops. 
 The Junkyard acts as your hub, where you choose your vehicle, and where recently unlocked autos 
 will be placed. If you want to switch transportation, you'll have to find a junkyard to do so, 
 which can be a hassle. The Auto-Repair station is your best friend, especially when taking on Road 
 Rage and Marked Man events, where victory is only rewarded to those who avoid turning into a steaming 
 pile of trash. Gas Stations refill your boost, which can be the bump needed to catch up in a race 
 if you've been Taken Out. And lastly, Paint Shops simply randomly repaint your car.
  
  All of the frustration of missing turns, the elation of pulling off barrel roles, and the demented 
 pleasure gained from seeing your car splinter into a hundred pieces is captured with brilliantly 
 vibrant visuals. Paradise City is truly a sight to behold, from the looming skyscrapers, the rickety 
 mountain train tracks, to the sun blazed downtown streets. It all runs at a steady framerate, supports 
 1080i and sports a whole bunch of bells and whistles. The game sounds just as brutal as it looks 
 when your car is flying down the street and devilish speeds, or toppling through traffic missing 
 nearly its entire left side, explosions in its wake. The pounding of the impact of taking an opponent 
 out, leaving him behind smashed half way to hell into a concrete wall is magnificent. The same 
 cannot be said for the soundtrack, but that is a minor blemish on Paradise City's beautiful presentation. 
 
  
  Paradise brings some drastic changes to the Burnout formula, and while it keeps things fresh, everything 
 isn't implemented quite as well as it could be. The map system is particular leaves you wanting. 
 And the open-world nature of the game never strays, even when it should allow players to retry 
 failed events. And FreeBurn has some tarnish that needs polishing. But if you enjoy the visceral 
 carnage that Burnout is known for and the blistering speeds that come with it, Paradise lets you 
 own the city, street by street, however you want to, like never before. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ne0man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  Burnout is back, in an age where every racing game developer is trying to approach a sim like experience 
 Criterion follows the destructive path of pure fun.
  Every game in the franchise until now has thrown in only simple tweaks to the formula, like the 
 introduction of Takedowns and the Revenge factor, Criterion has managed to hold on their success 
 and even though the previous games where still fun it was running out of fresh ideas and starting 
 to turn into a yearly franchise and the case that of quantity over quality, and let's stop right 
 here cause I could express my opinions towards the publisher and drag this review into a different 
 path...
  
  Welcome to Paradise! Criterion felt like their first true outing on the new generation of consoles 
 (i'm not considering Burnout Revenge for the 360 a true next generation game) should be remarkable 
 and revamp the Burnout series considerably. Instead of taking the player through the world in linear 
 tracks, they've embraced the open world approach, allowing for everyone to choose how to progress 
 through the game, with different race modes spread around the map. The race modes now are: 
  
  --Marked man- where the player has the start marker and the finish marker, and while he tries 
 to reach the finishing line, ruthless AI controlled cars will try to take you down;
  --Race- there's also a start marker, finish marker and the player has to reach the finishing line 
 in first place against as much as 7 AI controlled cars.
  --Road Rage- You are given a number of takedowns to accomplish that progressively increase as you 
 complete these challenges
  --Stunt- The goal is to reach a number of points while drifting, using boost, gaining air jumping 
 through gaps scattered around the map, crashing through the "smash" fences and billboards, and 
 might I say this mode isn't well implemented enough and sometimes you won't be able to chain these 
 things together to reach the absurdly high scores you're asked to accomplish later on in the game
 
  --Burning Route- For each car you earn there is a "Burning route" which is a time-attack race 
 which earns you the ultimate version of that car if you finish it within the time. One of the weak 
 points in the game also shows here, cause you'll sometimes drive from one edge of the map to the 
 other to start these races and if you fail you can't simply retry with the press of a button so 
 you'll have to drive all that way back to the "Burning Route" location to drive it again in case 
 you might fail it again.
  
  In top of all this there's the alternative to the Crash mode found in previous games: Showtime
 
  While you are relentlessly, aimlessly driving you can at anytime hold the two bumper buttons of 
 the gamepad and start crashing around, jumping and destroying the traffic in your way, collecting 
 multipliers from any bus you hit, until your showtime meter's empty (your boost meter will state 
 the showtime meter once you enter this mode and it will fill a bit for each traffic car you hit) . 
 With Showtime you can set a new record for each of the roads in map (there's 250 miles of asphalt 
 for you to wreck havoc in case you are wondering!) , and if you are online these records will be 
 submitted and the other players can try to beat your score. 
  
  Now let's try to sum the multiplayer experience... so you are playing by yourself on the huge map 
 and you want to crash against human beings such as yourself, so you'll access the multiplayer options 
 on the Directional buttons, choose a host of host a online game yourself and voila, you and the 
 other players appear on the map in the same spot where they were in the single player game, and 
 the players will drive freely through the map just like in the single player until the host chooses 
 if there'll be a race, a road rage, a boost dispute... whatever, you get the idea, the multiplayer 
 is seamlessly implemented. You'll earn achievements for the online challenges you beat, you'll 
 make online rivals, and when you are tired of destructive socializing you simply drop out and you'll 
 continue driving from where you were but now in single player.
  
  The presentation is great, the menus have a great design and are simple to use, the graphics engine 
 is great and it could be called realistic if you were not crashing your car to have it shiny and 
 new in two seconds and if you weren't driving so fast that your reflexes don't work, only your 
 intuition. =)
  
  The sound is great, the car engine roars and helps a lot to give the great sense of speed only 
 this game delivers, when you crash in showtime mode all the cars use their horns, the tires screech 
 when you use the handbrake...
  Now the soundtrack... well it features Guns N' Roses' "Paradise City", Alice In Chains's "Would?", 
 Faith No More's "Epic", "My Curse" from Killswitch Engage and... Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend"... Now 
 everyone's tastes in music are subjective, but how many people who enjoy's teen pop rock are there 
 in Burnout's target audience? It doesn't help the feeling of adrenaline provided by the game's 
 speed and destruction. But we've got Xbox 360's music player and the recent Cagney Update also 
 added this feature for PS3 users. so top notch sound effects.
  
  The gameplay is great, each car handles differently, and you can feel the difference between Stunt 
 cars, Agression cars and Speed cars.
  
  Now about value... well, 250 miles of road, 74 cars to unlock, about 5 licenses to master, 5 distinct 
 race types, leaderboards, achievements, a completely separate number of online challenges and events... and 
 soon we'll be able to ride Motorbikes for the first time in the franchise's history, a Day/Night 
 cycle, and more content coming soon from Criterion... so YEAH great value!
  
  If you are looking for pure entertainment and adrenaline this game was made for you, If you can't 
 handle extreme speed and destruction you can look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwickstrom1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  
  Burnout Paradise is the fifth game in the highly acclaimed Burnout series by Criterion Games and 
 Electronic Arts. The game was released on January 22, 2008, and is in my opinion the best Burnout 
 game to date! Burnout Paradise makes many changes from the past series titles, with free roam being 
 the most noticeable change. The same down and dirty racing style that we've all come to know and 
 love is back and better than before as well!
  
  Burnout Paradise's single player mode takes place in the fictional (yet almost real) Paradise City; 
 a tropical environment with countless places to setup your opponents for destruction! At first 
 the city will probably seem overwhelming, but after a while every shortcut and superjump is easy 
 to remember. There are many collectables around Paradise City, including super jumps (50) , smashes 
 (400) , and billboards (120) . Discovering all of each of these collectables will unlock you new 
 and stylish cars. Race events around the city are easy to find too. At almost every intersection 
 an event can be found. Events include Burning Route, Stunt Run, Marked Man, Road Rage, and the 
 classic Race mode. To activate these events you must simply do a burnout (how clever!) at the intersection. 
 A few seconds later the event will start, after giving you your goal score for the event or destination 
 you must reach. After beating a certain number of events you'll get your driver's license upgraded, 
 re-unlocking every event again. You'll start out with your learner's permit, and over time you'll 
 advance to D, C, B, A, Burnout, and then Burnout Elite licenses. 
  
  Burnout Paradise's online is redesigned this year, bringing new challenges (literally) and fun. 
 Burnout Paradise online features up to 8 players. In free roam online you can mess around with 
 your friends crashing eachother, or you can do up to 320 challenges after the Cagney software update 
 releases this August. Challenges include meeting up at a certain destination; using boost or jumping 
 a certain distance, and many more objectives. Online you can also setup a traditional race, or 
 coming soon Marked Man, Stunt Run, or Road Rage match. The options are limitless in Burnout Paradise 
 online.
  
  Burnout Paradise adds more realism than it's predecessors, by implementing a slow motion crash 
 cam as well as more detailed and realistic crashes. The game also adds realism by having the car's 
 body shift forward during braking as a result of the weight, and shift back during acceleration. 
 The game's soundtrack also features the classic 'Paradise City' by Guns n'Roses and 'Too Much, 
 Too Young, Too Fast' by Airbourne.
  
  Overall, Burnout Paradise is by far the best game in the Burnout series, even with the big changes 
 made in it compared to previous games in the series, that without a doubt pay off. I recommend 
 this game to any long time fan of the Burnout series, or anyone who enjoys racing games in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair1337
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The Burnout series has become a hugely popular racing genre. Now, the series developer, Criterion 
 Games (also known for the critically acclaimed 'Black') has finally brought the Burnout Series 
 to the next generation of consoles by releasing Burnout Paradise on both the PS3 and Xbox 360.
 
  
  
  Now, when I say Criterion has brought the series to the next generation of consoles, I use the 
 term 'series' lightly, as there has been a large over haul to the formula that made the Burnout 
 games popular. The time is over where you are stuck in a closed circuit for a race or another event, 
 as Burnout Paradise has a 'open world' enviornment. From the start of the game you drive where 
 you want and when, doing what you want and when. This will most likely leave you at the beginning 
 a tad overwhelmed, over where to go and when to do events and the like, but like much of the game, 
 you start to get a grips on where you are, whats happening and what to do.
  
  What to do is actually very straightforward though. You start off with a learners permit (which 
 you can customise with a photo if you wish) which is your key to the city. But, you can only gain 
 new, better cars by performing in events to upgrade your license. The events are: Race, Stunt Run, 
 Marked Man, Road Rage and Burning Route. Race and Burning Route are simple, get from point A to 
 B before either the time expires or your beaten by opposition. The beauty of Burnout Paradise is 
 that you can choice whichever route you think will get you there the quickest, this might leave 
 you a bit flustered at first, as you will undoubtedly take the wrong route and end up a mile away, 
 but as I said earlier, after a few hours, you really get the hang on this. Stunt Run involves you 
 pulling stunts in order to gain points, whilst marked man and Road Rage involve either taking opponents 
 down, or getting from one location to another without being taken down yourself! Again, you can 
 choose whichever path you like with these events. One thing you may notice however if trying to 
 reach the elusive 'Burnout Elite' license you may notice a lack of variety in the events as there 
 are only five kinds. I feel perhaps another kind of event would have been nice, but the kinds that 
 are available are finely polished and well thought out.
  
  As you can see from the images above, the graphics are brilliant. The lighting's and textures are 
 good, especially on the cars and its great to see and just watch. What does perhaps look a bit 
 awkward is the fact cars in Burnout Paradise don't actually have drivers, but if you look at the 
 picture above of a crash it may be easy to see why they have chosen not to include them.
  
  Now onto the audio. Generally throughout the audio is top-notch. The sound effects as you whizz 
 by cars at God knows how much MPH if great, and when you crash you hear true to life sound effects. 
 The game also has a soundtrack which varies wildy in terms or quality. This of course is a matter 
 of personal preference, but I don't know many people who are fans of Avril Lavinge's 'Girlfriend.' 
 There is also this guy called DJ Atomicka who is your guide throughout the game if you will, and 
 he does a pretty good job of not-so-subtly delivering hints throughout the games course.
  
  Finally, re-play value. Is this game worth your hard earned money? Short answer yes. I personally 
 am 25 hours in with around 60% clocked, and as the difficulty ramps with every event you do, I've 
 certainly not got to the hardest part of the game. And if going for the hardest license isn't enough, 
 there's plenty more to do. There's 60 achievements ranging from fix your first car to grab a boost 
 chain of 20 and there are also billboards to smash and fences to destroy.
  
  There is also an awesome, easy, simple online mode. Want to play a game, tap right on the pad. 
 Select your option, then tap right again. Then your in a game after 5 seconds, literally. Its brilliant 
 and quick. Once in the game the host can choose what you do, from a race to challenges. You can 
 also host your own game.
  
  * Graphics - 9.5
  
  * Audio - 7
  
  * Gameplay - 8.5
  
  * Multiplayer - 8.5
  
  * Re-Play Value - 7.5
  
  Overall - 8.3
  
  
  I hope you 
 enjoyed my review, please feedback. Only the shell of Burnout has barely been scratched, this is 
 a must have game for fans of the series and at least a rental for anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  basically burnout paradise is burnout but GTA style and its a risky move but can criterion pull 
 it off just like Revenge well read on and find out.
  
  The city
  pretty big and looks stunning in HD and the amount of stunt ramps and chances to make a huge crash 
 are pretty big but dont expect anything else this is not GTA.
  
  graphics
  very pretty game and it runs very smoothly despite the speed of the cars.
  
  events
  Tons 
 you will be playing for a long time
  
  Multiplayer 
  a lot of fun with friends but it gets old sadly just messing around but overall its a solid effort.
 
  
  the game sadly gets repetitive after a while which is not a surprise considering the lack of depth.
 
  
  pros
  large city
  tons of events
  excellent graphics
  
  cons
  sadly get repetitive
  sometimes might frustrate you
  small things make you crash
  
  VERDICT
 
  solid effort by criterion games that you should check out if you love burnout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyran87
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with the graphics. A very beautiful game, with an exceptional framerate as expected 
 with the Burnout series. Wonderful colour schemes for cars and loads to explore, such as smashing 
 through billboards, gates and super jumps...... then it's kind of goes downhill.
  
  --DJ Atomica - most annoying gaming personality ever. Ever. ......... Ever.
  --The ability to 
 teleport instantly to races around the map - non-existent.
  --Restarting races - non-existent.
  
  Other than that there's not much more than can be said. 
 The game could've been a bit more innovative. The race to get an Elite driver's licence isn't as 
 great as it sounds (then again does it even sound great?)
  
  It's a great hype game let's say that. It's no Burnout 3, Revenge or even Dominator. It gets the 
 job done but then you're left with a game that only the patient can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkiNner_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Burnout is a good game, but in my opinion they should have stuck to the old system of play where 
 the tracks are pre assembled for you. Take for example the big crashes you do to rack up damage 
 money. In Burnout Paradise this is just a type of mini-game in the city while driving down the 
 road and there is no real objective behind it.. The Driving system is good though and it is easy 
 to play and with a little practice it is easy to drive at crazy fast speeds. One of the major features 
 of the game is the crashes though. sometimes it is completely worth to just ram you car into a 
 wall at two hundred miles per hour just to watch the wonderful carnage of the metal crumpling like 
 paper. All and all it is a alright game but i would recommend renting it before you go out and 
 spend all the money on buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  A brilliant open world racinA brilliant oA brilliant open world racing game. pen world racing game. g 
 game. A brilliant open worldA brilliant open world racing game. racing game. A brilliant open world 
 racA brilliant open world racing game. ing game. A brilliant open world racinA brilliant open world 
 racing game. g game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant 
 open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A 
 brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing 
 game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world 
 racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open 
 world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant 
 open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A 
 brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing 
 game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world 
 racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open 
 world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. A brilliant 
 open world racing game. A brilliant open world racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best racing games I have ever played! The sense of speed is very real and exciting. 
 You unlock new cars fairly often and have a wide choice of different vehicles with different "feels", 
 not just a new faster car.
  
  As soon as you get on the road you're immersed in this paradise. You can drive anywhere and get 
 into any race at any time, just spin your tires. Awesome. Within a square mile there's at least 
 ten jumps you can own. I'm always figuring out better ways to tackle my opponents, it's never the 
 same. Plus it's the best feeling when you're neck in neck with a car and you swipe them into an 
 oncoming car and take the lead. Simple game controls that are immediately fun and never boring. 
 In short all the things that made "Revenge" a great game are kept and polished to a shiny finish 
 with this installment. And then to top it all off, the open world interface, which allows you to 
 explore the city, find jumps and shortcuts and scout out race routes, at you leisure is a wonderful 
 and unexpected improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Civfan333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I decided that this game wasn't worth 60$ when I first heard about it and decided to wait until 
 it was cheaper. All I can say is boy am I sorry I waited.
  
  This game takes the phrase open-world to extremes, by barring you from restarting races, and just 
 having to press right on the d-pad to open the online; Although it can be annoying not being able 
 to restart, you'll soon get over and just stare in awe at the gorgeous graphics. The races can 
 get a bit too easy at times, but the AI is still smart enough to hold it's own.
  
  My only problem with this game is that it's graphics are TOO good and most of the time leaves me 
 wanting to get a HD TV. Also, Showtime just isn't a worthy enough successor to crash mode, but 
 at least it's still pretty fun.
  
  
  Overall, it's a great game that I will be playing for a VERY long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This is not the first Burnout game to come to the next-gen consoles. And admittedly is not all 
 perfect. But the guys at Criterion really improved on the flaws that were present in Burnout Revenge. 
 But lets start with the bad. Well not to call it a flaw, but the cars would be a lot easier to 
 select for a race if they were real cars. And most of them are! You could see a similar car from 
 the Burnout universe in real life roads or highways. But with all the hassle of getting rights 
 from the creator of the original car in real life, its understandable that only the NFS series 
 has the time and money to get rights to use the real life car in their games. The multiplayer experience 
 is almost non excistent, but okay for a racing game (there is really not that much to do in multiplayer 
 for a racing genre game) . The graphics are trully outstanding, its just amazing to look at. And 
 the way you start an event, is really original and new. Never seen a game before this where you 
 could stop at a certain traffic light, then you could just jump into an event. But if you lose 
 an event then you have to trace you steps right back to that traffic light in which you started 
 that event. All the time, its better to look around for another event anyway. All in all this game 
 is really nice. I think all racing fans who liked NFS Prostreet or some other racing game, should 
 give this game a long trial run....... YOU WONT BE SORRY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingnigel007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic for those people who like car crashing games. I am one of those guys and 
 since now this is the best I found. You find yourself in Paradise City where there are : Races, 
 Road Rages, Stunt and Marked Man. The race is with no barriers, checkpoints just go first in the 
 destination. Road Rage is a race where you must take down cars as much as he tells you before the 
 time runs out or your car gets totalled. The Stunt mode is where you drift, jump, destroy billboards, ecc 
 to earn as much points as much as you can. Marked Man is a mode where you must arrive to the destination 
 with cars trying to take you down. There are 75 cars with three types: Stunt, Speed, Aggressive. To 
 unlock them you must find them while you roam around and then take them down and they will automatically 
 go in the junkyard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Hey all the army man here again to review some games. In this case a very good one. Burn out Paradise 
 is a symphony of great gaming and graphics melded together. When I heard about this game I was 
 excited. I liked the burnout series from the first one I played and this one is better than the 
 rest. From the sounds to the looks to the game play this one is well rounded in many ways. 
  
  Burn out Paradise is a free roaming racer smash em up game that plays well even when you are 
 just messing around. I didn't pick it up when it first came out but a week or two later I went 
 and got it.
  So let's get to it. this one has no story just game and that ain't bad. You roam Paradise City 
 looking for races, crashes, chases, burnout battles, and the like. Its fun how you find them and 
 perform in them too. You have a choice of when and where you want to race or the choice to just 
 mess around the city. While you're at it earning your challenges you get cars to add to your junk 
 yard. That too is fun as you have to chase the car down and make it crash to earn it which is a 
 fun mini game in its own right. You can also find shortcuts which just aren't faster ways of wining, 
 but you earn points for each one you find. You can find signs too which Is fun. If you have it 
 on the 360 as I do the achievement points are cool and easy to get. 
  The online component is easy to slide in and out as all it takes is a flick of the D-pad and your 
 there. Much like GTA4 you can get in there and just have fun. Its fast, furious, fun, and a whole 
 bunch of other F words that spring to mind.
  
  The Graphics are too cool although in some areas the collision is off seems at sometimes it's too 
 easy to crash. The cars aren't licensed, but still look good and are fun when driving. They shine 
 while you wiz by. The city is detailed and delivers on life without any pedestrians either. Roads 
 are well thought out and the city is in no way redundant. The other cars on the roads have good 
 detail also. Bottom line its top notch in this area.
  Sounds-a treat because the engines rev with intensity, and sound fearsome. The tires screech with 
 realism and sound as though you are there. DJ Hatomaka (don't know if I spelled that right) is 
 cool to listen to and doesn't repeat himself often. Although the female who starts the game off 
 should have been an option as she lays down the point of the game really well. This is also a good 
 game to play your custom tracks to as the original music is less than stellar. 
  
  Game play --- Well I pretty much covered it earlier, but in addition to all that you have plenty 
 to do in his game. Whether that be looking for shortcuts, signs, or other cars you won't be bored 
 and earning licenses by completing certain challenges gives you the feeling of some purpose to 
 playing with or without achievement points or trophies. It's a joy to drive the various cars when 
 you're doing a mission or not. The gas stations, paint shops, and repair shops located around the 
 city give you the quick pick me up you need. The game comes through in almost every aspect. All 
 in all this game is great and needs a sequel in order to fine tune and throw some new stuff in 
 there. Can't wait to see what happens too. PEACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron_gator
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  This is defiantly a great game. The chrashes are beutifly detailed and pretty fun to watch. I like 
 the fact that you can drive other vehicles in stead of all cars. Still would like a little more 
 custimization for our cars though. The online is great but full of bugs. Like the fact in a muti-player 
 races you can see other peoples achievements online but i'd like to see what it says about me. 
 The servers need to figure out why everyone cuts out while playing and cant be heard by any of 
 the other players. I also hate the when trying to do challenges online with other people when someone 
 leaves the challenge is then canceled. I think that the stuff that you do online should give you 
 at least something you can use in game. Its kinda scary to think when you actually look inside 
 the car NO ONE IS DRIVING, need a driver in the car at least to keep the realism even if he doesn't 
 move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rollerblader_am
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a Racing/Adventure type game. The player can roam around the city with over 
 75 different cars (you have to unlock) . You start out driving a STUNT type car (earns boost by 
 doing stunts!!) and work your way up by winning events and taking down other cars roaming around 
 Paradise City (not online) . As you win different events, you earn higher grades of Paradise licenses. 
 When you start out, you have no license and have to win 2 events to earn one (the 1st is D) . As 
 you earn those licenses, you start to unlock different types of cars. The ones you unlock are: 
 Stunt, then Aggression (earn boost by takedowns) , and speed which are the worse in my opinion, 
 because you can only use boost when the meter is full (earn boost by near misses, drifts, and jumps) . 
 There are also other objectives, like getting all Smashes, which are areas of private property 
 that you can go through, and Billboards, which are just like smashes, but you have to jump through 
 them. There are also some glitches, like the main one being - THERE ARE NO DRIVERS IN THE CARS 
 YOU DRIVE!! It is mostly cool, but the game is good enough so that you'll look right through the 
 glitch (get it!!!) The overall game has no storyline, which will leave you hanging after you beat 
 it, but the intense online play and freeburn will keep you occupied (not for the rest of you life) . 
 It also gets a little hard after you really get into the game, but you'll also get over that. And 
 so.... its a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoddlersBadger
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Criterion has brought in a new feel to the Burnout series; with enhanced graphics, sound and a 
 small collection of okay songs. The new features include The Freeburn; which allows you to instead 
 of choosing what to do you have to get there. Burnout Paradise also gives you a new way to unlock 
 cars. When you win a race the game shows you what car this race has won you but they don't give 
 you the car; you have to go and find it, take it down, then go get it in the Junk yard. The junkyard 
 is where all your unlocked cars are you can find 5 or 6 of these while driving in freeeroam. Paradise 
 also brings back the classic crash, but with a completely new way to do it. When you are in freeroam 
 press RB+LB and your car with flip over and say SHOWTIME! The you press A and just bounce around 
 town and crash as many cars as you can before you boost bar runs out. One of the bad things about 
 Paradise in my opinion is that there is no restart button in Races, Marked Man or any other game 
 variant so if the finish line is on the other side of town you still need to get there even if 
 you have no chance of coming in even last place. You also have to get your car fixed in Repair 
 Shops scattered around town for an instant repair this helps in Road Rages when your car is in 
 critical damage you can just hop in the repair shop and your car is completely fixed. Game Variants 
 consist of 1. Marked Man: This is where you have to get from one place of the town to an other 
 place withfout getting taken down by the strongest cars in the game. I suggest that you choose 
 your fastest and strongest cars such as the Hunter Vegas. 2. Race: This is self explanatory but 
 one thing is missing that Burnout fans take for granted, the green arrows that point to the direction 
 you are supposed to go to; no more of that amateur stuff you have to rely on the little compass 
 on the top of your HUD. 3. Road Rage: This is where you have to takedown the required number of 
 opponents in the time given or as long as you last. 4. Stunt Run: All you have to do is go of ramps, 
 drift, barrel rolls an flatspins and gainthe required number of points. 5. Burnig route: Try to 
 last as long as you can and also try to go as far as you can. 6. Showtime: I explained this above. 
 All in all Burnout Paradise is a masterpiece which is worth the buy but I'm warning you that your 
 Xbox might break due to fustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_x_BOZO_x_x
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  First let's talk about the good. The graphics are good that get better the faster you go. The crash 
 cam can sometimes be really cool to see your car get pummeled into a box. Cool way to get new cars, 
 where you have to take them down before you can own them. Theres a great feature where you can 
 repair your car during an event which somewhat helps. A new "Showtime" game mode adds fun to the 
 game (basically a newer updated version of "crash" mode in previous Burnouts) . The sound effects 
 are also great, along with an okay selection of songs. When not doing an event, the free roam feature 
 is a fun way to get around.
  
  
  Now let's talk about the flaws. The free roam feature is still in effect when doing an event which 
 gets very annoying because now there are no arrows blocking the wrong way and you must find the 
 correct way to the finish the race yourself. The direction system is a flaw I find most frustrating 
 because even though it tells you where to go, it tells you to turn when you're about 100 ft. from 
 the turn and since you're going so fast, you usually miss the turn. There's no retry button, so 
 now you must either finish the race all the way on the other side of town even when you have no 
 possible chance of winning.
  
  Although I have gone through all these side effects listed in my review title, I would still have 
 to say that this game is fun and with it's price lowering, its a decent buy. I still say that the 
 previous Burnout's are better though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  So Burnout Paradise, the newest edition into the series for the Xbox 360 / PS3 and soon to be windows 
 platforms.
  
  Ok to jump right into the review if your reading this your've proberly played any of the 5 or 6 
 games that are in the series which means your wondering, exactly how does this stack up to the 
 rest...?
  
  Well if you are you'll be glad to know that Burnout paradise is by far the best game in the series, 
 bar only a few qwuarks here and there.
  As soon as you pop the game in you'll be greeted by the great looking start Menu that is playing... 
 of course Paradise City ( the Guns and Roses song ) , However this is where the great Soundtrack 
 ends as through out the game the differed music is pretty much terrible for the most part.
  
  As well as the sound track or even before that when you get in game you'll notice an array 
 of different colour and spectacular visuals that is proberly the best around in any given racing 
 games, also for the most part the Frame rate does stay at a steady 60 FPS with little to no drops 
 even when adventuring online or racing with high speed boosts.
  
  Now after you've gotten past seeing how great the game looks, you'll want to see how great the 
 gameplays!!
  For the most part it's great you can cruise all around paradise city and any speed you like, take 
 any route you like, but this brings up the first and proberly the main Issue the game has and thats 
 the fact that if you have played any previous Burnout Games you WILL find the open world enviroment 
 the game has extremely overwhelming, this is mainly due to the fact you'll be cruising down a road 
 full speed with boosts on ( trying to win a race ) when all of a sudden '' CRAP !! which way do 
 i turn !! '' so you try too look at your Mini-Radar.. '' Ok so i turn left '' ( You look up ) ''Damn 
 i crashed ! ''.
  
  I myself and friends of mine had this happen to us several times becuase when your racing you have 
 to do 4 things:
  
  1. Try to win the race
  
  2. Try to avoid oncoming traffic 
  
  3. Look which way to go
  
  4. Trying to find the quickest possible route 
  
  Now doing 
 these four things is pretty customary after a while and it becomes like second nature EVENTUALLY 
 but as soon as you pick up and play Burnout Paradise doing 4 things in the space of around 3 seconds 
 is alot harder.
  
  Within Burnout Paradise there isnt just racing but altogether 5 different even types these evemt 
 types are:
  
  Race: Races consist of the player and at least 1 other car. The player is given a location to race 
 to. The player can take any route through the city to the location with the aid of a flashing road 
 names at the top of the screen when the player is advised to turn. First one to arrive wins. This 
 is currently the only available mode online. Online races can also include checkpoints that need 
 to be crossed before reaching the finish. 
  
  Road Rage: The player is given a target number of takedowns and a time limit. A Road Rage event 
 is won by meeting or exceeding this target in the given time limit. 
  
  Marked Man: In this event, the player is given a destination. At least 1 opponent is trying to 
 stop the player from reaching the destination by scoring takedowns against them. The player must 
 survive from start to finish in order to win (the player can be part of collisions, but loses the 
 event if he totals the car) . 
  
  Stunt Run: Players are given a target score. They must earn points towards that score by using 
 boosts, jumps, drifts and other such stunt moves. 
  
  Burning Route: Each Burning Route requires the player to use a specific car. Once the player is 
 driving the required car, they race against the clock to a specified location. When a Burning Route 
 is won the player wins an upgraded version of the vehicle they completed it with. The upgraded 
 vehicle can boast extra boost power, more base speed or a stronger body (but usually in exchange 
 for another category) . This is the only kind of event that doesn't reset when the player earns 
 a new license because it's tied to the car used to run it rather than the license level the player 
 is presently at. 
  
  Now reading this you may possibly be thinking that '' Road rage must be kinda like crash mode, 
 from Burnout Revenge right? '' ...
  Well no it isn't, infact there is no crash mode in Burnout Paradise what so ever instead a mode 
 called '' SHOWTIME '' has been added in it's place..
  
  Unlike in previous Burnout games, Crash Mode, now called Showtime, can now be started at any time 
 and place in the game; though Showtime mode is rather different from the usual Crash Mode.
  
  Basically after completing a certain amount of the game ( only like 5 % or so ) the always 
 annoying DJ atomica basically shows you how to activate and do '' showtime mode '' and this is 
 started by driving and crashing into a AI car and just before impact pressing and holding the trigger 
 buttons to activate it, after activation your car starts rolling out of control into other veichles 
 ( this gets you a type of points ) .
  Now to move you simple press A on your controller and the direction in which you want to move, 
 however as soon as your boosts runs out the showtime stops and you return to normal play, the only 
 way to continue showtime is by hitting other cars to regain boosts, that or hitting Busses which 
 add a multipliyer to your score.
  
  As well as singleplayer Burnout Paradise came shipped with Online capabillity which is very simple 
 to use if you have XBOX LIVE available to you. 
  Pretty much anytime you like during singleplayer by just pressing one of the dircetional buttons 
 on your 360 controller and selecting FreeBurn online, the good thing about Burnout Online is that 
 its so quick and simple to use as you choose a freeburn session and BOOM... it's loaded.
  
  Also all this is does is bring otherplayers icons onto your radar which is great as there is no 
 loading time and it's as if they have joined in on your singleplayer session rather than the otherway 
 around.
  
  Another feature implymented into Burnout Paradise is the new '' MUGSHOT '' option which is pretty 
 funny to you as if you or your opponent has a Xbox vision camera you can see their fustration picture 
 the moment you take them down or beat them in a race.
  When a player is taken down, they will have their photo taken, called a mugshot, and shown to the 
 agressor. These photos can then be saved to your hard drive.
  
  Just being able to Free-Roam and race isnt all burnout online as to offer eithier as there are 
 around 300 unique challenges that you can do with friends of strangers online to unlock certain 
 things.
  
  
  Overall Burnout Paradise is an outstanding game that newcomers and Fans to the series will find 
 overwhelming at first, but if enough time is put into it, will throughly enjoy and spend many hours 
 playing as its not only a treat for the eyes ( amazingly great visuals ) , but for everything ( 
 apart from the sound track XD ) .
  
  
  The Good:
  
  Outstanding visuals
  Online is pretty easy to get into to 
  Alot of modes to try out
  Dozens of cars to unlock 
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Pretty steep learning Curve as first
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Poor soundtrack over all 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bashinho
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all I would just like to say that I have owned every Burnout ever and I am still not bored 
 with them. They have always been one the best graphical games, as present in this latest release, 
 and always fun to play. It's like demolition derby on the roads. I am not going to say "This game 
 isn't realistic enough" because if you bought Burnout thinking its going to be a realistic racer, 
 you are a complete ignorant idiot. Burnout is an arcade style game which is still as fast paced 
 as ever as you drive round Paradise city, which is paradise it is simply visually stunning and 
 brilliant (And also has a kick a$$ theme song.) 
  
  Yet as you play this game more and more you begin to realise this game doesn't like you and It 
 does what ever it can to mak you crash and lose every race.
  Just so the physics engine can dance on your grave while you sit there for half a bleedin hour.
 
  
  There are no people present in this game apart from the annoying DJ Atomica who should come with 
 a mute button attached. None of the cars have drivers in them which is sad as i would loved to 
 have seen babies and people flying through the windowscreen of cars when you smash into them at 
 Mach 2.
  
  Burnout graphics are stunning, as I have said, the crash models look superb and the scenery is 
 brilliant.
  
  The game-play is same burnout, drive from point A- to point B creating as much carnage as possible 
 whilst coming first.
  
  As much as I love Burnout as with every game it has its problems, I am going to point them out 
 but don't let them put you off the game as it is still F**king Awesome.
  
  1) After a while the races get boring as with this burnout when you are achieving you last licence 
 (Elite Burnout licence) you have to do more or less every single race again. Why didn't they invent 
 new races for every licence it's not hard. This can make the game tedious
  
  2) The physics crash engine, Though it is brilliant the first 10000 times you see it, the 10001 
 time you start saying seen it all before, jus let me skip it and carry the hell on. It is rather 
 annoying when you are in a race and you are winning only to hit a rogue cat (I know this is impossible 
 as there are no cats) only so the physics engine can show off how good it is while it tee-bags 
 you in the face, leaving your car inches from the line while someone just zooms past and takes 
 the win.
  
  3) The other cars on the road which seem to drive like old people learning to drive. They are so 
 slow, and stupid, you could be zooming along when he decides to turn, sending you into a twisted 
 pile of metal and the physics engine leaps into action once more. We get the point EA you have 
 a good physics engine.
  
  4) The open world is a great idea in theory. You get to roam about doing what you like even with 
 some friends. But in the races it should set you a path, because if you TV is any less than 700 
 inches you won't be able to read the mini map. So you have to pause the game plan your route which 
 spoils how the game flows. Also try looking at your minimap whilst driving at 200 mph, its not 
 easy and with crappy drivers all over paradise. You just end up in twisted metal wreckage every 
 two seconds.
  
  5) The lack of variety of races can make the game tedious.
  
  6) The fact that if you are one of the human gamers that does lose a race every now and again, 
 you will find that there is no Restart Race option. Which EA is very F**KING stupid because it 
 make people angry having to drive back to the start of the race, which on some of the complicated 
 racers could be a 5 minutes drive depending on how happy the physics engine gets.
  
  7) Get rid of Atomica he is bloody annoying and doesn't have a mute button.
  Why do EA persist 
 on having a stupid radio DJ on all of their games?
  
  Now I'm just gripping on.
  
  Burnout Paradise is a good game, not without its problems but it's one of them games that is meant 
 to be played on occasion and not constantly. It's one of them games you play when you don't have 
 much time and you just want a quick game and buzz. It's a game meant to be played 30 mins at a 
 time. It's a cool game in all fairness, and I would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coyote32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  This is somewhat fun to play but after awhile I get bored of it. There is not that much to do unless 
 your into crashing a lot and driving really fast I guess. Its good for a boring day when there 
 is NOTHING at all to do. Its also fun listening to music to play. If you like the Burnout series 
 then go buy it. Its apparently a one of a kind for Burnout. So yeah. The cards and graphics are 
 nicely done in this game though. I do give them credit for that. Races are fun as well. And uhmm. 
 This review is terrible. I don't care if you hate it. =D So if you want a game thats worth it get 
 Halo 3, Call of Duty 4, Gears of War, Mass Effect, Bioshock, Rainbow Six Vegas 1 and 2, Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter 1 and 2. The good games like THAT. -sigh- I cant write about a game I dont 
 really enjoy. Its not one of my types of games. Let me reach the 800 max please............. gasdg 
 asdga 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Great graphics with realistic lighting and physics.
  
  2) Open world that you can explore and find a whole bunch of different things to do.
  
  3) 
 Takedowns are fun to pull off and they are always satisfying.
  
  4) A lot of different cars that will have you hooked to this game.
  
  5) A lot of extra side 
 missions you can do.
  
  6) Fast paced action that will keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  7) Sharp controls just 
 like the other burnouts
  
  Cons: 
  1) Feels a lot like the previous installments.
  
  2) Feel s a little bit repetitive after a while.
  
  3) Not enough race modes to keep you going 
 for that long without getting bored.
  
  4) Some challenges are really hard and can get frustrating.
  
  5) The radio guy says the same 
 stuff over and over and over again.
  
  6) You cant customize your cars.
  
  7) Traffic gets in the way when you are driving and it can get extremely frustrating at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daidantai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  For all the racing gamers out there, I present to you; your cocaine. This white powdery goodness 
 will give you such a kick that you will implode inside out. What makes this game so good is that 
 it has anything you love in a racing game. Freedom, speed and crashes. Allot of crashes.
  
  The overall car selections pretty good but the moment you get better cars, you never want to use 
 the old piece of crap again; but how cares. Its always better to crash a F1, at 200 mph, into a 
 corkscrew ramp, hurling through the air thinking what the hell did you just do.
  
  All comes to the same point; I love this game. The graphics are so deep they just make you want 
 to cry. Its still like the original Burnout soundtrack but its the best. EA makes such good soundtracks. 
 But anyway, with all the online play that the game gives you, how can you not love this game.
 
  
  Check it out, now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  
  In Burnout Paradise the world is yours to control. If want to jump a bridge, then you go ahead 
 and jump a bridge. If you want to take a short-cut while in a race, then you go right ahead. If 
 you want to destroy public property, we'd be mad if you didn't. The best part, no cops!
  
  Burnout Paradise has a lot of events to keep you busy for hours; here is the list of events.
 
  
  1. Stunt Runs - - This is where you must do a certain number of stunts before the time runs out. 
 Which it won't, because if you still have a chain going when the timer goes off, the game will 
 give you a 'Final Run'. This will give you some extra time to collect the number of points that 
 are required.
  
  2. Road Rage - - This is where you must destroy any other car that's in your way. You must destroy 
 a certain number of cars before you get trashed or the timer runs out.
  Tip: Never do this kind of event unless you're insured with Geico.
  
  You might have noticed 
 that I only listed two events. That's because the editor of this review is a lazy good for nothing 
 slob. You want to know something else about him; the editor of this review is me.
  
  Anyway, you can also try to rule every road in Paradise City, by beating the time and/or Showtime 
 score. Showtime is where you crash as many cars as you can before your boost runs out. If you do 
 this on every road, you'll become the king of the roads in Paradise City, unlike me.
  Just remember, I'll be watching you die when you try to impress the babes by jumping that bridge.
 
  
  Burnout Paradise's graphics is the best of the franchise. The city and cars look so good. Speaking 
 of which, you can also pick any car you want; all of them have their own sense of style. There 
 are three types of cars, each have the tendency to destroy anything that blocks their path. 
  
  1. Aggression Cars -- these cars are dangerous. Don't cross them unless you have one yourself. 
 Think of your mother when you don't clean up your room. Although these cars can be dangerous like 
 your mother, they'll make you look like an idiot if you take them in a Stunt Run.
  
  2. Speed Cars -- these types of cars can move so fast you'll barely notice them pass right in front 
 of you. Although these cars are extremely fast, they can get wrecked very easily. It's a good thing 
 I have Geico.
  
  
  3. Stunt Cars -- you see more of these types of cars in the sky than birds in Paradise City. Stunt 
 Cars has a little bit of everything speed, strength and boost. So you get the best of both worlds 
 when driving this type of car. And no, I'm not talking about Hannah Montana.
  
  
  Although Burnout Paradise is fun, it's not perfect. 
  The DJ can be a little annoying, and the 
 songs they've included are terrible. The only songs I listen to are 'Girlfriend', 'Rock star', 
 'I Wanna Rock', and 'Paradise City'. 
  
  I've never been a fan of the racing genre until now. 
  Burnout Paradise is for anyone who wants 
 or owns a PS3 and/or an Xbox 360, and is a fan of racing the genre. 
  Burnout Paradise deserves 4 thumbs out of 5 and I hope that the sequel will come soon.
  
  P. S. 
 I would've used stars, but they were already taken.
  
  P. P. S. If you don't give a comment on this review, I'll find you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is not your typical racer.. heres why
  
  Gameplay: Burnout paradise is basically the same and in some way a ton different from previous 
 installments. burnout Paradise has an open world to drive through and crash through. The gameplay 
 remains nearly the same as previous games. Race really freakin fast and takedown a lot of other 
 cars. Very simple and very fun. Burnout paradise has around 5 different modes. Roud rage, Race, 
 Marked Man, Stunt Run, and Burning Routes. Roud rage, Race and Stunt Run are all very fun while 
 Marked man and Burning routes can be frustrating and feel very tacked on. There are many cars and 
 each one handles very smoothly and very differently to a certain degree.. Some are built for speed, 
 others for stunts, some for simply kicking a**. The gameplay of Burnout paradise is amazingly fun..9/5/10
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Burnout Paradise are very good. Though there are some small graphic glitches 
 and wacked out textures they will hardly be a problem. The car accidents in BP are some of the 
 most exciting and fun the world has ever seen. Great graphics overall..8.5/10
  
  Sound: BP is blessed with an amazing soundtrack and great collision sound effects. It does seem 
 that all the cars sound a little underpowered for how fast they "seem" to be going but that is 
 a small problem when you hear your car crunching against metal making you cringe..9.0/10
  
  Replayability: BP has really fun multiplayer but it doesnt keep up with games like forza 2 and 
 Cod4. the Singleplayer is very long and very fun and you wont get bored with it fast at all. Overall 
 BP is a 40 hour or so game then it goes on the shelf.. Though it has a lot more replayability 9.0/10
 
  
  Overall: great game that adrenaline junkies will adore..9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm217
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who've played the game you know completing 40 events is quite the difficult trek. 
 However, the first 3 days I owned this game I played a combined playtime of 30 hours, which is 
 something I brag to my friends on a regular basis. This game has many good features which makes 
 it the addicting game it is, however it has certain faults to it which have made me neglect to 
 play it for a couple days. I suppose I'll start with the faults, and the biggest one at that which 
 is the repetitiveness of the single player, and multiplayer parts of the game which I suppose, 
 would make the whole game. Throughout the single player game you can participate in 5 different 
 types of events (not including "Showtime" and road rules) .
  
  While each event is in a different part of the city, doing the same thing over and over again gets 
 tiresome, however this was after 30 hours of play. The multiplayer aspect of the game generally 
 does the same thing but with more area exclusive challenges such as get a oncoming time of 20 seconds 
 on the I88 highway. These challenges can be completed with up to 8 people over Xbox live. Now after 
 doing these for hours on end, free burning around Paradise City can become stagnant and old.
  
  However those would be my only problems with the game. Paradise City is amazing, not the game 
 (although it is amazing) but the city itself. Whatever you want to do this city can support your 
 needs. Whether it being pulling off double barrel rolls at the airport, getting 520 degree flatspin 
 at the beach, or just unloading all your speed down the I88 highway. The online can keep you immersed 
 in it for hours on end. The most common online is freeburning, which is just freeroaming around 
 the city. From this menu the host can initiate races (anywhere throughout the city) or multiplayer 
 events. I'll stop here for now and leave the rest to figure out on your own. Paradise City is a 
 perfect example of a AAA game that I would definitely recommend. This Is DJ Atomik-I mean Peter 
 LeBlancSigning off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustXilo
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Usually I'm not much for racing games. Generally I get irritated with crashing and falling so far 
 behind it's near impossible to catch up. In this game not only are you rewarded for crashing by 
 some extremely vivid slo-mo crash damage cutscenes but you also are expected to wreck as many other 
 people as possible without catching the road rash yourself.
  
  In short, crashing does little to actually affect your placing in the races, etc, but rather does 
 more to the overall health of your car. Too many wrecks and you're out of the race. Too much damage 
 before the race starts and you'll end up struggling to hold on to first.
  
  With the different styles (road rage, race, marked man, mono y mono, burnout, etc) of gaming you'll 
 have no trouble finding a racing style you enjoy the most not to mention all of the non-competition 
 events you can do such as finding billboards, offset ramps for barrel rolls, and "shortcuts".
 
  
  I've since gotten other games like Dead Rising, Armored Core, and Enchanted Arms, and yet Paradise 
 is still the game I play the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Last time, when I've played with burnout, i was playing with the "Dominator" episode, but it was 
 a big biiig dissapointing. I can't even really say, that it's a real burnout. It's just a "half 
 burnout" :D. And now! A new, REAL burnout is here! A full burnout! It is called: Burnout paradise. 
 And i have to say, it's almost like the third one was. It's full of adrenaline, it's full of speed, 
 it's full of... Burnout! Damn, this is the continue, what i've waited for. After revenge, and after 
 dominator, this game is great!!! It's a true burnout. It's nice, it's fast, it has great cars, 
 it has great tracks, it has... well idiot musics. And even more idiot voice acting! The only reason, 
 why the sound score isn't that bad, is that the sounds of takedowns, cars, and crashes, are great. 
 Burnout paradise is a great game, and finally, it's close again to the burnout what I've met in 
 2004.
  
  Graphics: Nice! Nicer than NFS: pro street, that's sure. But not as good as the PS3's 9/10
  
 
  Controlls: Also less good than PS3's 7/10
  
  Sounds: Could be muuuuch better. 6/10
  
  Gameplay: One word is enough: TAKEDOWN!!! 10/10
  
  The Good: Fast, and exciting gameplay, with 
 good graphics
  
  The bad: Idiot sounds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  my old review-
  i am a diehard fan of burnout series. but i guess introduction of the open world in burnout is not 
 what it needed. every other aspect of the game is complete fun .amazing graphics, extraordinary feel 
 and physics of vehicles, a complete burnout punch and more, but driving each time for beginning a 
 race, finding auto repairs and boost refills, travelling to junkyards each time to change vehicles 
 is just not possible for a game with such high velocity and fun. it completely spoils the speed 
 factor of the game and makes it dramatically slow. atleast addition of an option to jump to locations 
 would have narrowed down the difficulty. whereas an open world gives you an added fun in reaching 
 first in races it makes it tough to race too coz burnout is all about speed. one glance into the 
 sidemap and you would probably end up on the rear of another car. anyways loved the game.. a visual 
 treat, great crazy jumps, good physics of vehicles, top notch graphics.. cannot be better.. also felt 
 like there was a bit delay to select vehicles in the garage.. ( was cool to see vehicles fall from 
 above though ) . would say rules of burnout revenge in paradise would be perfect.
  my new review-
  after finishing every single event of the game and getting the bikes update and 
 playing them, i feel this game deserves a 10 coz of the brilliantly made update, day and night cycle-midnight 
 events, host of new events, awesome vehicles, this game is a must buy for each and every gamer on 
 the planet. this is freaking MINDBLOWING.. am happy pc gamers will soon know how it feels to be a 
 console gamer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise throws the gamer in an open world that is so realistic that some times it becomes 
 confusing.
  The game works like this: you get your car and drive around the open city, almost every cross-roads 
 will allow you to pick up an event, which can be a "plain" race, time trial, stunt run, escapes 
 or road rages. Escapes consist of getting to a certain point without having your car brought down 
 by others, road rage means running like a mammoth, destroying every competitor in your way 'till 
 you reach a certain amount. Race is very interersting, since it only shows you where you are (where 
 the race begins) andf where you must get to, cool thing is it doesn't tell you how to get there, 
 so you gotta figure it out by ytourself with the help of a compass.
  Biggest and only problem in the game is the camera, you can either choose the view inside the car 
 or behind the car; inside you lose perspective of what is happening around you, and behind takes 
 a lot of view from what is in front of you.
  The scenario is so rich that you might even find yourself lost at times, and the game experience 
 doesn't stop at the main events, there side-accomplishemnts, such as hiting billboards, taking 
 new cars down (in order to gain them) , breaking records and so on.
  The soundtrack is wonderful, having a nice assortment of musicians that range from the mindblowing 
 intro by Guns N' Roses to quality rock-pop such as Avril Lavigne and even underground stuff like 
 Kill Switch Klick.
  All in all Burnout Paradise is amongst the very best car/racing games around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeargantGoat
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Burnout: Paradise has some big shoulders to stand on. Burnout 3 brought the series to new heights 
 with tons of tracks, features, and great multiplayer. Burnout: Revenge added tweaks and improvements 
 to an already solid formula, and it was a classic in its own right. So the developers were faced 
 with a question: What next? 
  
  Their decision was to bring Burnout into an open concept, sandbox style world, typically more suited 
 to games like the Grand Theft Auto series. There is some fun to be had here; rival cars will appear 
 during the course of your drive, and taking them down will give you access to that car. Events 
 are available at every traffic light, so often you don't have to go far to find something to do. 
 Takedowns seem much easier, which makes the takedown related events fairly fun and enjoyable. Marked 
 Man is a fun mode to try, surviving a cross-town drive with rivals nipping at your heels. The city 
 details are remarkable in a lot of ways as well. 
  
  Despite the positives though, it feels like the developers missed bringing the essence of Burnout 
 to this new game. The most noticeable omission is Crash Mode. What has to be one of the favorite 
 modes of most Burnout enthusiasts is altogether eliminated from this game, which I couldn't believe. 
 The replacement Stunt Mode underwhelmed me to say the least. Although there is an event to be found 
 at every stoplight, getting specific races and events completed is a hassle, since failure is one 
 wrong turn away (especially when you're still learning the city map) , and driving all the way back 
 across town to complete the races is a pain. 
  
  Paradise City is a neat active city to drive around in, but one of my favorite hallmarks of Burnout 
 was the quick-starting, arcade-style racing through different exotic locales. In this game, we 
 don't get the signature European and Asian inspired tracks which I for one really came to love 
 in Burnout 3 and Revenge. There isn't much variance to the environment in Paradise, so I end up 
 switching off the game after a half hour when it starts feeling repetetive. 
  
  There are some features of Paradise which are great, and overall it's a fun game to play. It simply 
 doesn't have the same spirit that the other Burnout games have, and the game itself suffers as 
 a result. It's an interesting game to play, but it sure doesn't feel like a Burnout game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is one of those games that will have fans forever, and for good reason first off 
 let me say that if you dont have burnout and you like racing games that arnt uptight like forza 
 than go do yourself a favor and buy it, you have to play it. The events are great my favorites 
 being road rage and marked man. Races and Stunt Runs are good you just have to be good at them. 
 There is a fair amount of cars ( Around 70 not counting sponser cars whoses codes are on gamespot.) 
 and are all very cool. There are plenty of secrets to find including shortcuts and billboards which 
 require skill to smash. The online is amazing and can be accessed strait from the game and it includes 
 online challenges ( around 350) and online racing with little lag. My only complaint is that a challenge 
 ends if someone leaves the game which is horrible on harder challenges. Also Criterion Games is 
 promising patches that will add new cars in the summer, motercycles and a night setting in August, 
 and a expansion to Paradise City in the Fall which make this game worth coming back to months from 
 now. Overall Burnout is amazing and in my opinion the best racing game on the market right now, 
 GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfeinstein
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Sometimes a sequel to a game fails to meet the high standard created by an earlier game by trying 
 to do too much. So it is with Burnout Paradise.
  
  That is not to say this is a bad game. It is very good in many ways. But in trying to expand the 
 experience, EA has lost some of what made the original so good and in doing so, added frustrations 
 that did not exist.
  
  Let's start with the whole "open world" issue. Yes, it is a lot of fun to just drive around the 
 city and try different jumps, find the collectibles and crash into things outside of the many events. 
 But when it comes to actual events, things go downhill.
  
  Racing through the city seems fun until you realize you have no idea where to go. Unlike previous 
 editions, there are no directional signs on the course. You have to know you way around the city, 
 which is large with lots of streets, and be able to keep track of your surroundings while at high 
 speed. There is a "GPS" in a corner of the screen, but it is not terribly helpful when racing.
 
  
  Other events include stunt runs which gives you points for jumps and other driving incidents which 
 would cost you your license. But you have a fixed amount of time to do the event and if you do 
 not know where nearby stunts are, too bad, you lose.
  
  The takedown -- such an integral part of previous editions -- is now an afterthought. In many of the 
 point to point races, takedowns do not really help you like they did in the earlier games. The 
 revenge mechanism is gone which is unfortunate too.
  
  And no crash mode!!! A terrible choice. The new "showtime" mechanism is meant to take the place 
 of crash mode, but it does not measure up. Nowhere near as much fun and lacking all of the puzzle 
 qualities and challenge of crash mode.
  
  The handling of the vehicles -- and there are a lot of cars to win -- is very sharp and the controls 
 are similar to those in previous games, making the high speeds manageable. You will be able to 
 maneuver in ways you never could in real life and it is a blast.
  
  And the graphics are stunning. This is a real city with lots to see and do. And so much of it is 
 interactive. You can jump off the top deck of parking garages, drive through the infield of the 
 baseball stadium, jump off the beach's boardwalk. And they all look fantastic. The frame rate never 
 drops and the game runs silky smooth.
  
  The sound effects of the cars and the crashes are fine. The soundtrack is weak. Many critics have 
 complained about the DJ who comes on before and after events, but I did not find him that atrocious.
 
  
  This is a game with a lot to do. You could play for many hours and just scratch the surface and 
 that is a great thing. But the added complexity that comes with all the new content and the basic 
 sandbox concept can often be overwhelming, especially if you cannot master the city streets in 
 your head -- and I wonder how many people really can.
  
  Do not get me wrong, I had a lot of fun playing and I recommend that you try this, especially if 
 you liked other Burnout games. Just understand that it is very different from previous editions. 
 You may find some frustrations with the openness of the world and you may be nostalgic for some 
 of the great features of the past that are missing here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmokeBombMass
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The new installment in the Burnout franchise has plenty of potential, but is poorly executed. The 
 game itself is great... a huge sandbox like world to drive around / crash in, an intense sense of 
 speed, and great visuals to boot. But among these things that make a great racing game are severe 
 problems that cause flat out frustration.
  
  The game centers around completing different events, such as racing other drivers, doing stunts, 
 and crashing into other cars to name a few. The basic gameplay of these is fun, but some of the 
 decisions the developers have made just cause them to be more trouble than they should be.
  
  For instance take a racing event. The main goal is to get from point A to point B faster than 
 anyone else. Sounds simple no? But there are no checkpoints to show you where to go. Instead you 
 get blinkers on your hud to show you where to turn. But the turns, especially in the more commercial 
 like areas, are laid out more complicated than than these blinkers can help you with. So you look 
 at your minimap to try and figure out where you really need to go, only to look back to find your 
 heading 200 mph straight into a bus.
  
  Now as many times as this has happened to me, these events can still be completed through trial 
 and error. But that brings me to my biggest complaint with the game : No Retry Button. That means 
 if you drive all the way across the map in a race, make a wrong turn and lose... you have to go 
 ALL the way back to the event marker to try it again. Thus making trial and error a severe chore, 
 and all in all just making the game less fun. 
  
  Aside from these problems the game has many great things to offer. The cars look great, the graphics 
 are superb and make you feel like you're really in the game. The multiplayer is interesting and 
 enjoyable, offering many different challenges and events to accomplish. The controls and feel of 
 the game are top notch, and the sense of accomplishment you get after ramming an opponent into 
 a wall, never goes away. And because of these things, many people might be able to overlook the 
 flaws and find this game a very enjoyable ride. But I would definitely encourage you to rent this 
 before you buy it, just to make sure you are one of those people.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djricky2004
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I expected a lot more from this game. The cars don't have any driver and the city doesn't have 
 any pedestrians, it all feels so artificial and unreal. The map should have all the insane jumps 
 like the ones on Trackmania or the long roads to speed up like NFS Pro Street. The new crash mode 
 is extremely dumb (the older crash mode was the best thing on burnout) and the lack of missions 
 and things you can accomplish makes you get bored of the game real fast. Burnout is all about high 
 speeds and big crashes so they should have nice roads or freeways to speed up, also the map should 
 be filled with huge jumps and even hidden missions like destruction derby or soccer with cars or 
 something else (just for fun) as a bonus. The new crash mode is OK because you can crash at any 
 time but they should have kept the older one and improved it with even bigger crashes and more 
 chaos. Lets hope the next game will be a lot better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FishHunta007
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  I'm not even a racing fan, but this game is awesome. I played a ton of racing games, and reallly 
 I never liked any except Midnight Club DUB edition. Well, I tried this game.... Awesome...
  
  The graphics. online play, replay value, the open exploration environment, all the unlockable 
 cars, all the different events!!
  
  You can do anything you want in this game. You can race, crash, speed trials, try running from 
 guys trying to get you, there is a TON of different missions in this game! and the cars are really 
 cool to pick from!
  
  Online is amazing. You can jump in and out of online/offline play any time in any part of the city!! 
 How many games can you do that in!? 
  
  The only downfall I have with this racing game is.... I like REAL cars. Like Ferraris, Corvettes, 
 blah blah... This will give you a name like "The Cavalry" and it looks like a Camaro or something. 
 I dont like that, but its so fun You dont even care about that. 
  
  Get this game! Its worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixVenom
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paridise is a heart pounding, adrenlien pumping action packed adventure that will have 
 you looking at your competition in the rear view mirror. The Burnout series keeps coming out with 
 new titles and dont ever disappoint and deliever a masterful experience everything you step behind 
 the wheel. Burnout Paridise had a new comcept of a whole open world terrain for you to destroy 
 at will and believe me you will and laugh at the destruction as you do it. This is a beautilfully 
 crafted game that gives the gamer from all walks of life an experince that they will not soon forget. 
 The open world can be quite overwhelming at first but after crusing the exquisite terrain you will 
 get the handle on it and never think twice about it. This game will enagage you and mezmerize you 
 and 1,2,3,4 hours will go by like you dont know what happened to you. The game will completely 
 engulf you and feel like you are the soul of the beast you are driving past your competition and 
 wrecking their cars and taking their pinks. The only and only downside is the lack of cars and 
 racing types. This is without a doubt a must have for any game library and for any gamer. This 
 has it all to attrack gamers from all over to fall in love with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was the biggest disappointment in gaming history. Look at all the other Burnout games 
 and how good they were. Now, play this one and look how bad it is. The graphics are just terrible, 
 the gameplay is disastrous and the city is unoriginal. You start in this big, big city and you 
 can get lost easily and you are overwhelmed by the thing. All the missions are the same and the 
 bonuses are just to dull to continue finding them. The big idea of an open-world gameplay is just 
 a bad idea, it doesn't feel like a Burnout game anymore. This is very sad because Burnout 3 is 
 9.5 and is just a superb game. Burnout revenge is 9.1 and Burnout Pardise, for me, is 5.0. I promise 
 you that if you like the other Burnout games and their style of racing, this game is just another 
 game completely and has nothing that is the same with the others in the series. In all, this is 
 way too much a mediocre game for you to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrewB777
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Ah, Burnout Paradise. The sheer pleasure of taking out a car out for a stroll, when you are really 
 racing as fast as you can control. The little accident when you nudge a car next to you, more like 
 ramming it into a subway wall and rolling up the wall onto the roof and down the opposite wall. 
 The pleasure of finishing well in front of everyone else, when you just had forced them into a 
 lamp post and taken the spoils for yourself. 
  
  Whilst the song in the advert made the game look a bit weak, the monster beneath is far from it. 
 You can enjoy a better quality of graphics, a much larger choice of cars, race tracks, special 
 features and more unexpected twists in the career mode. 
  
  For those who are racing addicts like myself, YOU ARE WARNED!!! This game is unbelievable addictive 
 due to the sheer enjoyment of competing with other races, the satisfaction of a nice solid take-down 
 and the thrill of leading the pack.
  
  Take my advice. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsofwar1999
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has many features to it and lots to do, including xbox live. The graphics are nice and 
 the frame rate works like a charm. The game also has wonderful sound effects making your car sound 
 like a real car. You also can paint your car and customize it to make it look like a wreck of metal. 
 Want more ? ok you can wreck other cars that you see and when you do its yours and there are a 
 VARIETY of cars to choose from in fact there's over 100 cars to choose from. Also when you want 
 to get past the whole game it can be done but it would take a very, very, very long time to do 
 so.
  
  Some problems with the game though. The games master DJ is not that bad but he can get annoying 
 sometimes like this one quote "You know the great things about paradise city is that you don't 
 need a garage at your house."
  Also the games show time mode is not very good because its kinda unrealistic 
  like if you took 
 a car and it flew around would it just keep going? the answer is no.
  
  Overall this is a very good game and has much to do in it. this game gets a 
  9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Pro's:
  -Huge city that allows you do to many different things
  -a decent variety of challenges
  -great online play (challenges will keep you busy for hours)
 
  -a great variety of different vehicles
  
  Con's:
  -single player can get very repetitive at times
  -there are no markers showing you where to go 
 during races (can be frusterating)
  -if you loose a race you have to travel all the way back to the beginning of the race to replay 
 it (EXTREMELY tedious)
  -a lot of connectivity issues with the online play (random booting from matches aswell as issues 
 with mics not working with the server)
  
  Overall Burnout paradise is a good game with great a great online mode. At first the single player 
 mode isnt all that great until you start racking up the sweet rides you get throughout the game 
 (such as the 4x4) . However, at the point of retaining all these sweet rides, the challenges begin 
 to get boring as they are repeated many times. The online play is where I had the most fun. There 
 are a total of 350 challenges ranging from meeting areas to billboards smashes that are broken 
 up into player groups (2-8) . If thats not enough to keep you busy there are also races that can 
 be created by the server host. Or you can jsut cruise around the city and smash into people racking 
 up your takedown score. The only problem with the online play is some connection issues. Numerous 
 times I would be playing with a few friends and their mics would just stop working, we could talk 
 in private chat but just not on the server. This gets really frusterating at times especially when 
 we are working together to complete some of the challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  Burnout paradise is a racing/car wrecking game from criterion which features 75 cars and hundreds 
 of jumps spins and big air. in terms of presentation it has stunning hd graphics and sound. theres 
 no story but there never is in a burnout game but that doesnt really matter. you get to drive round 
 250 square miles of jumps corners and traffic the city is called paradise city so it says on the 
 name. you will generally be in one of 5 places that ive named theres the shops in the middle, the 
 beach in the north, the mountains in the west ,the the shipyards in the south, and the stadium in 
 the west. you might find the traffic a little frustrating at times when youre racing but not always.
 
  
  gamespot said the music what terrible but there are some decent tracks in there however me being 
 a hard rocker i was confused that avril lavignes girlfriend was there. theres a dj that occasionly 
 talks with some good dialogue most of the time but he stops after you get a burnout license. youre 
 goal is to upgrade youre license to elite by getting points on youre license BUT thats a good thing 
 in burnout. there is hardly any difference between the ps3 version and the xbox 360 version . sorry 
 but i cant tell you about the online because i dont have a fast enough router for xbox live. all 
 in all burnout paradise has a lot of replay value and should keep you amused for a couple of months 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise for the 360 is a very, very fun racing game. The objective of the game is to cause 
 as much traffic destruction as you can. Choose from one of many cars such as cars that have all 
 kinds of different parts from other cars to heavier cars to speedy racers. Xbox Live multiplayer 
 is fun to play, is fun to roam around with other people from around the world, performing tricks, 
 crashing and taking down each other. The graphics in Burnout Paradise are finaminale, are very 
 realistic and vivid. Another thing to point out is the soundtrack used in the game, the soundtrack 
 includes very good choices of songs that fit the game, and the games speed. Also the controls for 
 BP (burnout paradise) are very simple and easy to use.
  
  OVERALL: 10/10 Burnout Paradise is a excellent entry to the series of Burnout games. Is highly 
 recommended to fans of the series, or for someone who's wanting a fun face paced racer for the 
 Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyeyescarr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Wow I find it hard to put words to this game. The game play and graphics are awesome. I wish they 
 would have had a more variety of races but they are all fun. It was hard at first to find your 
 way around the city cause just following the other racers to the finish line doesn't help much 
 and neither does the little map they put at the bottom due to the fact that its hard to see it 
 when you are in a race. The cars are sweet. I haven't found many glitches yet. The races in this 
 game (if you can find your way) are awesome i have just about figured out my way around the city 
 so i don't use the map much which helps alot.... The damage you can do it pretty sweet as are the 
 crashes you cause. Instead of crash mode (which i missed alot) there is a new type of race called 
 showtime mode and its great. Basically you ride around trying to cause as much damage as possible. 
 Over all AWESOME GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Burnout title that i have OWNED. I have played the others so don't judge me.
 
  
  This is the first Burnout game to do the whole free world do whatever you want deal. The single 
 player is a snooze though seeing as all you do to get by is do the same races over and over again 
 until you get to a point where you have to do every single one. I felt like I grinding creatures 
 in WoW. Well anyway Burnout offers everything it used to with more shiney new cars, little hidden 
 passage ways, fairy kingdoms, candy forrests... wait.... ok back on track now (hehe track, I made 
 a funny) Well not too long into playing the game you'll no doubt find that you have no clue where 
 the hell you're going in any race. This is even more difficult in Marked Man races where you're 
 pretty much going 100+ mph down crowded city streets with black almost "CIA" style cars chasing 
 you trying to wreck you in all their meniacle hatred of YOU. Burnout wants you to just fail. Your 
 car will shatter with the slightest poke. I suppose this is understandable though seeing as you're 
 going so unbelievably fast. Which brings me to my next point. In Burnout the best part of the game 
 is going fast, but to my displeasure i found that going fast will cause me to lose. I ended up 
 using aggressive cars only not because that's my play style but because that way I don't die ALL 
 the time. I might just get my roof ripped off. 
  
  Normally I'm not into racing games but Burnout strikes a chord with me. It understands me. It knows 
 I like watching things die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: call4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  BURNOUT PARADISE
  
  The game play in Burnout Paradise is a brilliant combination of racing and fun driving. The fact 
 that there isn't a market root fore you to follow in races and other events make the game more 
 thrilling and it takes a lot of concentration. This contributes to make the game play exciting 
 and manifold. In other words, the game play is perfect.
  The voice acting in the game is not quit as good as the game play, but it is pretty darn good anyway. 
 The so cold DJ Atomica, that always appears on the radio and gives tips about places and races 
 can be very useful some times and not so useful other times.
  The songs and music that is been plaid on the radio isn't my taste, but, that you can switch song 
 by pressing the left bumper helps a littlie by that I can skip some of the really bad songs.
  Also if the engine one your car stops the camera gets into this sort of fly through wile there 
 is being plaid classic music. That's funny. :)
  A nether funny feature about Burnout Paradise is that if you hold down both bumpers at the same 
 time your car starts to bounds up and down and it's about hitting so many cars as possible until 
 your car stops bouncing. You can do this in every street in Paradise City.
  
  Over all, Burnout Paradise is a great game in any ways, and that is way I gave it a deserved 10/10. 
 
  
  GREATE GAME 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpusha
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  alright great game i mean great cars great free roam excellent muiltplayer 
  online is very strong and the challange's are great to do with a bunch of friends i think this 
 is the best burnout game out buy this game u won't be sad about this game it has everthing and 
 burnout fan wants in a burnout game the best in the series i know i said bad things about EA but 
 this is the best series they ever had BUt let's look at some things that r bad about the game u 
 can't mod ur car and when ur first playing the game and u race u will lose if u don't look at the 
 map every 5 mins with can be boarding after awhile but if u get board hit rb and lb and go and 
 crash all the cars on the road now this is not like any other game and other game wants u to win 
 but not this one this raceing game is hard u need to find ur own way it wants u to lose it will 
 throw cars at u when racing there are no waypoints to show u were u need to go to get there first 
 the only thing u have to really guild u to ur desotantion is a thing up in the middle of the screen 
 that will flash showing u the way to go oh ya before i end this review creat ur own custom sound 
 track because this game has bad song on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidForce
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of Burnout Paradise is pretty much the same as the other Burnout games except the 
 people at Criterion Games have changed a few things. Crash mode is now called showtime mode and 
 the game is based in an open-world enviroment which means that players can take any route to get 
 to their destination. The cars in the game are completely made-up but they have a close comparison 
 to some cars in real-life. There is also another new change they have added to this game, each 
 car's class has a different 'boost rule'. A stunt car's boost colour is green, an aggression car's 
 boost colour is red but the speed class is a bit different. The speed car's boost colour is yellow 
 but it is also the only class that can use a burnout, (a burnout is an extra boost) , and they are 
 weaker than the other classes.
  
  The other amazing thing about Burnout Paradise is Paradise City itself. The graphics are absolutely 
 stunning and the choice between taking a longer route or a shortcut to get to your destination 
 drastically changes the gameplay of the race. Unfortunately the music isn't very good and the only 
 genre of music is mainly rock. There are a couple of classics such as Paradise City by Guns 'N' 
 Roses, which ironically is the song's main title music and is in the in-game soundtrack, and a 
 couple of new songs. The multi-player is pretty good too since you can seamlessly invite your friends 
 to join you and race around Paradise City or you can set new records around the city and it will 
 automatically save your record on Xbox Live.
  
  The most useful thing about Burnout Paradise is that there are absolutely NO loading times and 
 NO menus, (apart from when you put the game into the Xbox 360) , and the way you have to unlock 
 and access cars are pretty fun too. You will be informed when a new car enters Paradise City and 
 you have to take it down to own it. Apart from the lack of good music and annoying in-game dialogue, 
 (DJ Atomika) , this could possibly be one of the best racing games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevendabouncer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  now this racing game is a keeper i loved playing i loved the affects and detail of the cars some 
 of the cars you get are come in the best custom ways you drive when you crash your car in to a 
 wall or the other cars and the slow mo it gives off when you crash or do a big jump on the road 
 how you can have so much freedom in the game no cops ever time you race the stunts you can do and 
 time that you want in the game the many cars you can pick 75 of them you can pick from form but 
 what i didn't like is when if you are going to a race there is no GPS to help you get to it you 
 have to drive all over the place to find one so the music wasn't so good some of it was but not 
 all the only good song in the whole game was kill switch engaged song my curse will but besides 
 that i loved the game ;D.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DISCOSTEW360
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing.... i have played quite a few stunning 360 games in the past few 
 months but none have come close to impressing and entertaining me as much as Burnout Paradise has. 
 the controls for most part are basic (pick up and play) but you are thrown into the game almost 
 immediately without any knowledge of the controls. But the upside to this is that you can take 
 your time and explore anywhere and will gradually learn the controls at your leisure while SERIOUSLY 
 enjoying racing and destroying paradise city. The races can be very difficult if you have no idea 
 how to get from place to place and take advantage of your shortcuts. The other race types (I dont 
 remember the names) are very fun and are worth searching for and playing. The Graphics are beautiful... like 
 a vietnamese prostitute under a blossoming lotus tree (jk) . they are beyond superb and can throw 
 you into the races more realisticly with its sense of speed, destruction , and overwhelming sound. 
 By the way guys, the DJ is said to be veryveryveryveryvery annoying, but it was not nearly as bad 
 as you think (NINJA WARRIOR ANNOUNCER) . The music was actually very good as well if you are interested 
 in the similarities between the burnout series and semi-popular w/popular alternative music. The 
 fact is that i loved it and you should BUY IT NOW if you want a truely next-gen racing experience..... PAWNZORZZZ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L_WIL50N
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise follows on the legend of the Burnout games in true form. You begin in a great 
 game and it just gets better and better as you go along. Burnout Paradise is a special game because 
 of it's unique gaming qualities; Firstly, Paradise offers great variety of tasks to work your way 
 up from Class D License to Class A. If you're not that good at Stunt Runs, you still have others: 
 Races, Marked Man, Burning Route & many more to tickle your gaming senses. Secondly, the game begins 
 easily so you can get into it and understanding. However, after that, unlike most games, it gets 
 harder and harder so once you're addicted to Paradise City, which you will be, you're challenged 
 not just skating through. The game is a worthwhile buy because of it's length and difficulty. Especially, 
 the game has great realistic features, great graphics and for all you Xbox 360 lovers out there, 
 great achievements! Why are you reading this? Go on, go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Racing games have always had to have something to lean on, whether it be a great collection of 
 cars, super-realistic graphics, or even some odd power-ups. Taking hints from its past, the Burnout 
 series has grown from a simple crash-the-car racer to one of the most satisfying of racing series. 
 The introduction of the Crash Mode in Burnout 2: Point of Impact solidified what Burnout was all 
 about: dealing as much vehicular damage as possible. But it wasn't until Burnout 3: Takedown that 
 the Burnout series raised itself to critical acclaim. The introduction of aggression-based driving 
 and an unquestionable sense of speed moved the series a step-above the past installments. The Burnout 
 sequels appeared on consoles and handhelds at quick paces, but this time around, Criterion has 
 driven a new path for the next Burnout sequel. This time, it's a go-anywhere event with wide open 
 roads, plenty of new challenges, and some of the most over-the-top crashes ever witnessed in a 
 video game. Burnout Paradise is the Burnout series' first challenge in the open-world GTA-style 
 gameplay challenge. Is it truly Paradise?
  
  Burnout Paradise is the latest installment in the mindlessly guilty pleasure game series. But this 
 time around you no longer need to choose a race from a menu. From the start, you grab your latest 
 set of wheels from the Junkyard and you're off. No menus and a really simple opening is what you're 
 greeted with. Burnout Paradise is Criterion's shot at the free-roaming, do-anything world that's 
 been so popular these days. Instead of selecting a race track from a menu like in previous Burnout 
 titles, you now drive around in Paradise City, entering races and other challenges by pulling up 
 to stoplights at intersections. Holding both triggers begin a challenge; you get a quick look at 
 your map to find how far your destination is, and you're off. Sounds simple, right?
  
  Well, yes and no. The core gameplay of Burnout Paradise is much different than its predecessors. 
 Instead of following a single path, Paradise City is basically an open book, a vehicular mass of 
 opportunity. You can drive where you want, resulting in many different pathways and shortcuts to 
 use. There's different ways to approach these situations, but most of the time, the ambiguity of 
 the racetrack leads to crashing your car. This is mostly the fault of the game's two distinct themes: 
 open-world with plenty of shortcuts and insane speed of your cars. You'll no doubt miss a critical 
 turn, or in most cases, crash and lose the race. If this idea was put into a slower paced racing 
 game, it could easily be remedied. However, the game is just too fast to make a detailed use of 
 the open-world gameplay. This is mostly in part of the navigation system, which to its credit, 
 is actually kind of unique. You'll know when you're approaching an intersection when the street 
 signs at the top of the screen move. You'll mostly end up following the mini-map to stay close 
 to competition in a race, but it's just too small. The mini-map is pretty useless at the end of 
 the day, mostly because Paradise City is so huge.
  
  But all is not negative in Paradise City. When not crashing in a race, there are plenty of other 
 things to keep you occupied. There's shortcuts labeled with signs to crash through, a total of 
 400 in fact. You can also jump off ramps to find hidden jumps, and simply driving around mindlessly 
 looking for new races is actually fun. Some of Burnout's most famous missions like Road Rage (where 
 you must inflict Takedowns by smashing into competition) and Burning Route (a race against the 
 clock to complete a track) are generally good. These are actually pretty cool. Stunt Run is the 
 new match where you must perform stylish tricks against the clock, and while it's fun, you mostly 
 need specific cars to complete those tasks. But there are plenty of cars to unlock. To unlock a 
 car, you must first complete races, then find the car in Paradise City to wreck it. While it may 
 seem pretty difficult to find a single car in Paradise City, you'll know when it's on the street. 
 All in all, Burnout Paradise takes a few steps back from its predecessor's stellar gameplay mechanics, 
 but doesn't abandon most of the high-intensity moments the series is known for.
  
  The Burnout series has prided itself on tearing up the roads and looking good while it's at it. 
 Fortunately, the graphics remain pristine. The sense of speed is very well done, as expected from 
 Criterion. The rush of dashing past cars is as surreal as it is visually intoxicating; no other 
 game manages to turn a simple highway drive into a blazing dash over 100 miles per hour. Burnout 
 doesn't break too many barriers since its last Xbox 360 romp, but it really doesn't matter. And 
 the crashes? They're incredible. When the game slows down to review the metal carnage, the car's 
 hood bends and curls into a twisted piece of scrap. Mix in some parts flying off the car's impact 
 and some beautiful lighting effects and you get the current epitome of vehicular damage. Burnout 
 Paradise is definitely the best-looking in the series thus far.
  
  The soundtrack, on the other hand, feels lacking. The Burnout series has long since had an interesting 
 mix of big and independent artists to form a rocking soundtrack. While some of the bands included 
 manage to hold up in Burnout Paradise, the game is sorely lacking of many of the famous songs of 
 past. While I can't say that Senses Fail is the best that Criterion can do, the inclusion of bands 
 like Soundgarden, Saosin, and Killswitch Engage are worth listening to, along with the title track 
 "Paradise City" from Guns n' Roses. Besides that, you get some pop punk from Avril Lavigne and 
 such. Criterion does let you choose from music that Criterion themselves compiled, which is good 
 when just need an adrenaline boost. The sound effects are stellar and visceral, but the soundtrack 
 feels like a serious letdown, at least when compared to the music from Burnout 3 or Burnout Revenge.
 
  
  Pros
  + Incredible sense of speed
  + Unique challenges
  + Awesome graphics
  + Plenty of objectives and missions
  + Good integration of online play
  
  Cons
  - Open-city 
 gameplay is more confusing than fun
  - Soundtrack could be better
  
  Burnout Paradise is definitely worthy of the Burnout name and delivers high-intensity racing with 
 plenty of crashes, but just because you try something new doesn't mean it works as well as it should. 
 While it is admirable that the folks at Criterion hopped onto the "open-city" bandwagon, there 
 are too many inconsistencies in Burnout Paradise to call it, "the next great racing game." To the 
 game's credit, Burnout Paradise still manages to be incredibly fast-paced, something that the series 
 has successfully accomplished for years now. The amount of cars, routes, and challenges is great 
 and will satisfy completionists easily. However, Burnout Paradise sacrifices many of the famous 
 features that previous installments have accomplished so well. The Showtime mode is interesting, 
 but doesn't hold a candle to the epic Crash mode. Although shortcuts are interesting and provide 
 a bit of strategy in racing, it's much harder to take them into consideration when you're barreling 
 down Paradise City in moderate traffic. The open world and extreme speed don't coordinate well 
 with each other. If this was any other racing game, it would probably be much more interesting, 
 but the open world doesn't work with Burnout Paradise's sense of speed. That's not to say that 
 Burnout Paradise is bad, because it isn't. There are plenty of challenges and objectives to find 
 throughout Paradise City and simply driving around to find them is usually fun. Although this new 
 direction isn't the best choice for the series to go, there are still enough fun moments to be 
 worth a look or rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Burnout was first published by Akklaim, after few series EA Games took over and started to publish 
 itself. Thanks to Criterion games for developing such beautiful every time without losing the taste.
 
  
  So now we have the long waited episode called 'Paradise' which is released only for next-gen consoles. 
 Much more better graphics, higher sound qualities, realistic car damage, better light reflections 
 and shadows etc. There is a huge difference between the previous series.
  
  Not only that but everything is new and different. For the first time, you can free roam around 
 the Paradise City, attend different kinds of races at the traffic lights, the traffic jam varies 
 according to the area, each car has its own characteristics etc. The idea of license is a good 
 idea for gameplay. Each time you finish a certain number of race, your rank rises up and able to 
 drive different cars. On your license card, you can put your own picture via the camera. It adds 
 some taste to the gaming.
  
  The city is huge. It is divided into 8 areas like the Naval Yard, Wildcats Baseball Stadium, Windmill 
 Farm, Observatory Tower etc. Not only that, you can drive inside the metropol, on the highways, 
 the canyons, the countryside etc. There many things to discover in the city like Repair Shops (fixes 
 your car from critical damage) , Paint shops (can paint your car in any color with different material 
 like Gloss, Metallic etc.) and Gas Stations (refills up your boost gauge) . You can also find variety 
 shortcuts, ramps, billboard and restriction fences (unlocks achievement if you destroy them all) . 
 It is fun just cruising around the city at high speed, smashing into traffics and watch how your 
 crumbles in slow motion.
  
  The racing is somehow harder than before. First you have to learn the city by heart. The AI is 
 more aggressive. The traffic is more heavier. You can't just retry the race in the middle. You 
 have the stop your car for 5 seconds, and then come back to the same meeting spot to start the 
 racing again, it is very frustrating actually. There is no more circuit races only sprint races 
 (much better) , takedown challenge (my favorite) , stunt race (perform stunts to earn score according 
 to the objective) marked man (move from point A to B without being completely totaled by the other 
 two black cars) burning route (each car has its own burning route. If you won, you will get the 
 custom version of that car like stronger performance or visually) and showtime (I haven't performed 
 that event yet, and it is hard to get it) . In other, you have plenty of things to do in Paradise. 
 If you are bored, race online with your friends at anytime.
  
  In conclusion, if you are a fan of Burnout series, buy it! If you loved destruction, free roaming, 
 speed, buy it. If you hate cars, give it a try you may like. If you are seriously hate racing games 
 so why are you reading this review.
  
  Pros:
  - Stunning visuals, realistic sound effects
  - Realistic car damage and physics
  - 75 different 
 cars to drive
  - The city is huge, detailed and awesome
  - Better AI both for the opponents and the traffic
  
  Cons:
  - Races can be hard sometimes
 
  - Can't retry the race in the middle of the event
  - Can be sometimes frustrating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudvaynekid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was made really really good with the gamer and replay value in mind i could play this 
 game forever and never get bored cause theres always something new to find ill probably play this 
 game 3 years from now and find something new its that massive!! the online play is phenomonal its 
 funner thn evr. Rcing around the city instead of wating in a boring lobby room is the most genius 
 idea ever now if only we could get ea to team up and put some of those car licenses in fro real 
 cars and some cops on your tail then well have a monster of a game!! The music is horrible sounds 
 like they borrowed a mixed cd from the emo girl next door and threw it on there (thank god for Custom 
 soundtracks) . other then that the game is a really really awesome fun addicting game i give it a 
 9.5 -5 coz of music!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Many Burnout fans have been on the fence about what EA has done with their new installment, Burnout 
 Paradise. EA has changed the classic Burnout formula in a lot of ways. Putting the game in an open-ended 
 world was only one of the many welcomed changes that the user will experience. 
  
  The game is set in Paradise City, where many challenges await you. You start off with a junk stunt 
 car which you must repair and complete a certain amount of challenges to start unlocking new cars 
 and to get familiar with everything that the game throws at you. Unfortunately since every bit 
 of the city is unlocked from the get go, there's a pretty good chance that you'll feel overwhelmed 
 by the whole thing. Once you explore the city and complete more challenges, the concept of Burnout 
 Paradise will start to make more sense. There are only a certain amount of challenges in the single 
 player mode including races, stunt runs, and marked man events. The marked man event is a new event 
 where you must make it to the finish line in one piece. Of course it's not as easy as it sounds 
 since atleast 5 black cars will be trying to stop you at a single time. If it's time to take a 
 break from the challenges, you can drive around and find super jumps, gates to smash and billboards 
 to jump through. Notably, a car is unlocked if all are found or smashed. If both shoulder buttons 
 are pressed at the same time, you'll enter Showtime mode. When Showtime is activated, your car 
 will jump into the air and the goal is to crash into as many cars as you can to rack up points. 
 You'll start off with a learners permit and, as you complete more challenges offline, you can work 
 your way up to the elite license which requires you to beat every single event. The achievements 
 are worked in very nicely in the game. The game will give you some easy ones at the beginning and 
 leave you wanting to unlock more.
  
  At any time you can press right on the D-pad and hop online with friends. The transition between 
 going offline and online is very quick and seemless. The online is what sticks out as the most 
 fun. When you enter an online match, there's a leader board that keeps track of everything everyone 
 in that lobby has done. For example: at any time when a challenge isn't activated, players can 
 compete for the best records such as best drift, bigest air time, most near misses, as well as 
 many others. The host of the lobby can activate a challenge in which all drivers must participate. 
 These challenges for the most part are fairly simple to complete. Though it's unfortunate that 
 there isn't any kind of tutorial on how to do some of them, such as drifting or barrel rolls. You 
 must figure out how to do them by trial and error, it's not all hard to do but it can be frustrating 
 at first. If you don't want to do the online challenges, you can also race each other or just take 
 each other out. A cool feature is the mug shot. If you have an Xbox Live Vision Camera hooked up, 
 you can send a picture to whoever just took you out. It's a nice little feature that adds a little 
 more fun to the whole online experience. 
  
  There's a total of 77 cars you can own in the game. Though they aren't real cars you'll see on 
 the street, they still look wonderful. Aside from looking nice, they sound just as good. To unlock 
 different cars you'll need to complete a certain amount of challenges online or offline. When a 
 car is available to be unlocked, it'll show up somewhere in the city. In order for you to use that 
 car, you'll have to find it and take it out. The cars are not the only good looking thing in the 
 game. The entire city looks phenomenal. The game runs very smoothly and rarely does it hitch up. 
 The soundtrack isn't really worth listening to. With songs like "Girlfriend" by Avril Lavigne, 
 you're better off listening to songs on your hard drive. A cool addition to the soundtrack is songs 
 from Burnout games from the past, such as the very first game to Revenge. It's worth noting that 
 the DJ in the game can get annoying at times. When you fail an event, he'll give you some painstakingly 
 obvious hint to help you win next time. For example: if you were to fail a race he'll tell you 
 to find the shortest route.
  
  In the end, Burnout Paradise is a very solid addition to the series. With many challenges and events 
 to complete, it's easy to put in over 40 hours into the game. If you're a fan of what Burnout has 
 done in the past, or just like racing games in general, this game is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbas
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I like slow motion car wrecks. That freeway scene in The Matrix Revolution is the reason why I 
 own the movie on HD. This is why I chose the Burnout series as my go to racing game years ago. 
 The GT or even NFS series failed to get the hook in me because it's just a racer. Burnout is a 
 racer and a wrecker and this year, Paradise is the first attempt made by EA to bring something 
 new, if not borrowed to the experience. For the most part it works.
  
  While I enjoyed pulling up to any given stop light and rev my engine to start a race, I really 
 dislike having to drive half way through the city just to get back to where I was to start the 
 race all over again. This is where the game becomes frustrating and annoying because backtracking 
 sucks. Always has, always will. When will developers come to realize this?
  
  Luckily, this is the games only short coming because there's allot to enjoy here. A new crash mini 
 game was added this year and it allows you to start it anywhere in the city. I've enjoyed wrecking 
 as many car, trucks and buses as I can more than the racing it's self. The graphics are beautiful 
 and the crash physics are stunning. Yes, stunning!
  
  Online play is fast and easy to get into as you don't even need to go back into a main menu, you 
 can do it while in game with the push of a button.
  
  I highly recommend this game to any fan of the Burnout series and any body that's into a racer 
 that doesn't punish you for crashing, but rewards you with beautiful destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapinCrunch17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is an excellent racing game, it had high flying stunts, great races, and tons 
 of damage. The graphics are amazing they really put a lot of effort into making a great racing 
 game. Paradise city is an amazing place to drive and race around. There are many cars to aquire 
 and them customize them to your liking. The only thing that i would have changed is the difficulty 
 the races sometimes are very easy to win, but it is one of the best Burout games made in a while. 
 Another thing I enjoyed was racing in the moutain tops and laying out other cars and taking them 
 down. The music is awsome I mean Guns N Roses as the lead song for the game is there any better 
 song. The high flying stunts were amazing to witness you can land 250 ft. jumps and then land out 
 of control and just polverize your car. SOme of the cars are amzaing in design but other are just 
 weird looking and useless to drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  I've followed the Burnout franchise from PS2 to 360 and have enjoyed every iteration in it's own 
 right. Criterion is not afraid to change things up a little (usually in a good way) and Burnout 
 Paradise is no exception. Not satisfied to simply crank out another of the same, the developers 
 went the extra mile to bring their vision of an open world of high speed, high intensity races 
 and crashes to console owners, and have succeeded in almost every way. 
  
  If you've played a Burnout racer before, you'll know what to expect here. All of the basics that 
 have made the series great (at least since BO2) are here and in spades. An arcade racer that doesn't 
 skimp on detail, you'll instantly find yourself tearing around corners at break-neck speed, ramming 
 opponents into guardrails to and avoiding doing so yourself. The last game to appear on the current 
 generation of consoles was an upgrade to the fantastic BO3, and much feels familiar enough to satisfy 
 fans while giving them more. More spectacular graphics, more high fueled roadway mayhem, more over 
 the top stunts and destruction. I could spend two or three pages just describing what works for 
 this game, but you don't need to read that. If you are a fan of Burnout or arcade racers (or dare 
 I say action games in general) then you won't be disappointed with this game. Graphically stunning 
 with a huge world to explore and rip through, there is no end to the good. 
  
  I do want to discuss the open world gameplay, though. Its handled very well overall, and it performs 
 without a hitch. Blasting through downtown redlights leads to winding mountain passes without a 
 load time in sight. Given the load times from their last couple of games were almost intolerable, 
 that is a big plus. You jump in an event by burning out at a specific intersection, and you're 
 off. Bring your friends to your world online by simply pressing right on the direction pad. Setting 
 up events to run in Paradise with your buddies is easy and the online play works very well, feeling 
 seamlessly integrated. 
  
  But, if I were to complain, it would be about the racing structure. I don't mind so much that you 
 can't restart a race once you get into it. Frankly, hitting restart thirty times to get just the 
 right run to win was just like grinding to me. Some people like that sort of thing, but not me. 
 What I do mind is when you make a wrong turn in a race (and you will... not just due to learning 
 the lay of the land, but the mini map on screen is not so great) and you fall hopelessly behind, 
 you can't just give up and go about your business. You have to finish it out and limp across the 
 finish line. If may not sound like much, but the races can be long and cover a lot of real estate. 
 It would have been nice to be able to just quit and find another one. Also, there is no warping 
 around in the world, so if you want to get from one side of the map to the other, you have to drive 
 there.
  
  Luckily, the game is gorgeous and there are so many short cuts and side projects to find and do 
 that it's easy to become distracted on your way back to the starting line. Events are scattered 
 all over the map, so luckily you're never that far from another race, stunt, marked man, or take 
 down event... but if you did want to give that race another shot, you'd better be prepared to drive 
 all the way back to the start to go again. This is not a deal breaker, but you will notice.
  
  Audio wise, you will find that they have gone with a radio station system similar to SSX 3. 
 There is the annoying DJ who yaps about the world and you, giving you "tips" and commenting on 
 your performance. It's the same guy, and while he starts off like a part of the game giving tutorial 
 help, eventually you do want him to shut up. Luckily, after the first few hours he becomes less 
 prevalent, but you'll still hate him. And the music he plays! Look, I don't mind variety, but Avril 
 and Twisted Sister back to back is enough to make me turn it off for good. Add in some other tired 
 tracks from Faith No More and the like... and well, load your own. The game audio is awesome, though, 
 leaving everything from the engine roar to the slow mo smashups rattling in your head as you play.
 
  
  One final issue that may be the biggest gripe is the lack of the loved-by-all Crash Mode. They 
 have replaced it with an albeit interesting concept called Showtime, where at any time you can 
 trigger a crash and keep it going as long as you can by rolling your wreck along and chaining combos. 
 Its amusing for a little while, but is no substitute for Crash Modes addictive puzzle game-like 
 quality. My wife does not play games, but even she likes Crash Mode. There have been hints that 
 it my be added via DLC, but shame on them if they planned to do that from the beginning. It's one 
 thing to add content based on consumer feedback, but I'm not sure how they could have not suspected 
 that the fans would want a return of one of their most celebrated game conventions. 
  
  Look, if you're a fan of the franchise, you owe it to yourself to give this game a try. For a first 
 attempt by the developer to produce a fast and fun open world racing game, you won't find much 
 better. And given my complaints hardly break the game, you will find plenty more to love than dislike. 
 Racing aside, just dropping in and tearing around the sandbox Criterion has created is immense 
 fun, one that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekismyname21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  What could be more exciting then going down the road at 200 miles per hour? Well in Burnout Paradise 
 you will find out. First off, the games have amazing graphics. The cars details are great and the 
 backrounds are good too. Like all other burnout games, you get to takedown other cars, which still 
 is a lot of fun. The gameplay is GTA styled, so you drive your car around the city and stop at 
 a light. If you want to do that event, then press LT and RT at the same time. It can make the gameplay 
 bad because you have to look at a map all of the time, but once you get used to that its not that 
 bad. One disapointment is that they took out the crash mode, but is replaced by showtime. Aftertouch 
 is gone which stinks because I always like taking someone with me when I wreck. They also added 
 marked man a mode where you try to beat other peoples scores in a street. Online is great, you 
 get to roam around and wreck into each other. There are 350 challenges which is a great thing for 
 value. Racing is fun. The achievments are cool and they will take you some time to get them all. 
 Overall, this is a great game. I'd say that it is just as good as Burnout Revenge or Burnout 3: 
 Takedown. If you liked those games, then you'll love this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise keeps the same high standards you've come to expect from a Burnout game, but the 
 concept of a huge open-ended city to explore doesn't satisfy every burnout fan.
  
  As usual there really isn't a story to speak of in Burnout Paradise, but you don't really need 
 one anyway. This game is about driving blazingly fast and crashing cars.
  
  Graphics are brilliant and the whole city is perfectly seamless experience with no loading anywhere 
 except between missions, where loading times are not a problem anyway. Frame rate stays fast and 
 solid all the time. Car models are detailed and colorful. Some serious effort has been made in 
 damage modeling. It's just real. Same great performance applies to audio side as well. Effects 
 of a crash really sound like one and the blowing air in your ears when driving 200 mph is something 
 worthy to see and hear. This is truly a next generation Burnout.
  
  Gameplay is open-ended and free as was said earlier. You can start a race in every traffic light 
 by pressing the both triggers at the same time. There is no warping system so if you fail you need 
 to drive manually back to the starting point just like in real life. Races don't have a pre-designated 
 path to drive through and you can take as much short cuts as you wish. This gives the player lots 
 of freedom, but here also lies the problem of Burnout Paradise: there's too much freedom.
  
  Instead of just enjoying the amazingly fast speed and crashing of your opponents, you always 
 need to check the little map on the bottom right to see where you are going. This means that you 
 really need to know your way around the city and this learning process alone takes a lot of time 
 to master. If you don't pay attention to your map you end up driving the wrong way and if you pay 
 too much attention to it you will crash. This constant map reading takes the fun of speed away 
 from Burnout Paradise.
  
  Online multiplayer works well: you either invite other players in your Paradise City to perform 
 stunts and challenges or join to someone else's game. Every challenge you complete or car you gain 
 in the multiplayer stays with you as you come back to play offline again. It's very easy to jump 
 in and out of a game, but because of the open world it's not so easy to see whose best.
  
  Burnout Paradise plays well, looks and sounds amazing and has a functional multiplayer component 
 in it. Still the concept of an open-ended Burnout experience is not for everybody. For me Burnout 
 Revenge is still the best Burnout ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptObvious1031
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Being an rabid fan of the Burnout series I was over excited to finally get my copy of Paradise. 
 At first I was highly impressed, but the more I played, the less entheused with the game I got. 
 I missed the classic feature of Crash Party. I missed the customization of online games. I missed 
 the fun of a set course. Now Paradise is lost in my games of "I'll get back to".
  
  While the free roam offline single player is pretty sweet, I enjoy cruising around the city looking 
 for races... but wait, Midnight Club and Need For Speed have been doing that for years. So there's 
 nothing new with that feature. Burnout had a very unique formula for a racing game. It was the 
 racing game for people that didn't like your traditional style racing game. Now that formula has 
 changed and not really for the better. 
  
  Online co-op is okay. It is very repetive and almost as annoying as Burnout: Revenge's infamous 
 lobbies of game denial that only let those it felt worthy join the games. With Paradise, you join 
 your friends online and it sticks you 1/2 way across the world from where ever they may be! You 
 start a race, finish the race and again everybody is scattered around the city instead of in the 
 spot where the race ended. This is extremely frustrating.
  
  Even more frustrating is the removal of Crash Party. Showtime mode can rot in a pile of cat vomit. 
 It sucks. It sucks more than any Dyson cyclone ever could. It's just not fun. More so, other than 
 the co-op "challenges" , your only choice of online play is a straight out race. No Road Rage, 
 No Marked Man, no nothing!!! So it's either Race, or do the challenges. Lame.
  
  It's an okay game for playing offline. Paradise is lost when you want to play online. For good 
 old online Burnout Action, stick with Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 88 % This game in my opinion is the best burnout game you can get because you can get 
 allot of cool cars and you get to cruise around paradise city. In this game you get allot of unlocks 
 sometimes in the roads there's things that you have to smash and if you achieve the amount you 
 get awards and thats the best thing in the game. If you like the burnout series i think you should 
 get this game because this is the one of the best racing games you can get for the xbox 360.
  
  
  
  Graphics 92 % This game has exellent graphics i didn't try this game on a Hd tv but 
 its still good on a normal tv. 
  
  
  Sound 92 % I think this game has the best EA TRAX ever the music is good and some of the music 
 is from artists. The sound is good overall the cars sounds pretty realistic.
  
  I think xbox live is awesome you can beat your friends in intense races..!!!
  
  I reccomend 
 this game for everyone this racing game is fun and you can spend allot of hours playing single-player 
 and online.
  
  9.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seventy5cent832
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first 4 burnout games this is very different from all of the rest. The only real 
 letdown is for a good crash mode, this one has a different type of that but not as fun and addictive 
 as the older games. Its a free roam inviorment with over 200 miles of roads to drive and countless 
 jumps. The graphics are turly amazing, the crashes are also simply amazing and mouth watering. 
 It does get a little annoying when you are not very attentive becasue the traffic can get in you're 
 way. the events are placed on every intersection, the events are difficult because the navigation 
 is a little tough, its not like saints row or other free roam games. there isnt a very helpful 
 map on the screen, because it dosent show were u need to go on it, no routes just locations, there 
 are street names on top and they blink when u need to turn but when ur going fast its hard sometimes, 
 ur blinkers turn on also. one thing i liked about the other games is that feature aftertouch takedown 
 mode, this one doesnt have it. now ive told u the only problems the rest is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSchmo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I was expecting this open world racing not to work with the Burnount formula, oh but it did. It 
 stays true to the Burnout series of flat out crazy drifting, boosting, and most importanly... crashing. 
 The Crash effects are the best done to date on any racing game. It has a slick cut scean for when 
 you crash that zooms up on the car to watch it crumple right in front of you then flip down the 
 street. Its cool but gets old 2 hours into the game. I dont need a 5 second interuption everytime 
 I crash, which will be alot.
  The other flaw is that open racing means you can get to the finish anyway, but leads to driving 
 down the same roads most of the time.
  Online is a blast with friends, but some kids want to do nothing but crash you and ruin your fun, 
 especialy when doing challenges. Also the 'Set-up' crash intersections are gone, replacing htem 
 with an arcadey crash anywhere style. Its ok but not the highlight of the game.
  
  All in all its a well done game that evoled the classic series to the next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  Now, "merely good" is something that most games on the market don't even come close to achieving. 
 I do not want to understate this title's accomplishments. While we've all loved the Burnout series, 
 it's never been the deepest experience. Not content to rest on a familiar formula, Criterion has 
 made Burnout Paradise a total reinvention of the franchise, a strategy that makes this at once 
 the most compelling and most frustrating entry in the series to date.
  
  Burnout Paradise is an open-world racer in the truest sense. After you load in, everything you 
 want to do both online or offline is available to you in the massive overworld. The map has numerous 
 dots, each of which is a unique event, whether it's a race, Road Rage (where you must cause a set 
 number of opponents to crash) , Marked Man (running a gauntlet filled with aggressive enemy cars) , 
 or various other contests. Just pull up, hit both triggers, and you're in. This holds true for 
 the online mode as well, allowing you to seamlessly set up and send invites to a variety of events 
 all while tooling through the landscape. The sheer scope of what's available to you at any one 
 time is impressive, and evokes a more user-friendly version of Test Drive Unlimited.
  
  The racing itself, both online and off, is also top quality. This game moves fast  shockingly 
 fast at times  and you'll hardly ever see a skipped frame or a trace of pop-up. That's really 
 something when you consider just how detailed this world is. Even after a few days, I was still 
 uncovering hidden areas, routes, and jumps. The driving mechanics are in the classic Burnout style 
  just realistic enough to give it a sense of verite, but more concerned with delivering speed 
 and thrills than accurate physics modeling.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Burout. A popular title. What does it mean to you? What is the first thing that comes into 
 your mind when you hear Burnout? CRASHING! Burnout Paradise follows in it's predecessors footsteps 
 when it comes to crashing, and is so fun to do that alone. Now time to get into the stuff that 
 wasn't obvious.
  
  Burnout Paradise is an attempt at a new type of racer. And, although it still strongly resembles 
 old Burnouts, it's definately not run-of-the-mill. It is a racer that provides you with a sandbox, 
 a few gates, billboards, superjumps and a few races doppled on for good measure.
  
  I found the biggest highlight to be races and events because, again, another attempt at being different, 
 Burnout Paradise has more than your average 8 vehicle race, it has stunt runs, where you try to 
 reach a target score by pulling off jumps, drifts and by simply crashing through stuff. It also 
 has a "Marked Man" event, where you have to reach a target point without hitman-type cars totalling 
 you. It also has your average race, come first and you win.
  
  There's an online portion to this game which didn't seem to appeal to me very much and since the 
 single player engrossed me so much, during my weeks rent i got into about 2 matches online. It 
 seems pretty fun if you have a bunch of friends in one game ramming into eachother for a few hours, 
 but apart from that it doesn't seem very attractive. For all i know though is that i would've given 
 this game an 8.5 or even a 9.0, but i doubt it.
  
  Also, one of the best things in my opinion is that you don't follow a certain chain of races. You 
 cruise around doing whatever you like, exploration, superjumping, whatever, and if you get to certain 
 points you can start events listed above. For every event you win, you get a "mark" on your liscence. 
 In real life, these are bad. But this is a video game. Every time you get a mark, it get's added 
 to your liscense, so to advance from class D to C you might need, say, 5 marks, so you win 5 races.
 
  
  There are 75 cars in this game, i found to be quite a selection. You get these cars in 1 of 2 ways: 
 1. If you go from say C to B you might get a new car and 2: Albiet a rather..... nonsencical way, 
 you have to total a car that roams around after you finish events to add it to your collection.
 
  
  If you are a hardcore Burnout fan, this is the game for you, while new players to the sieries might 
 find this to be a good starting point. There are plenty of cars and introduces a new meaning to 
 racing games, and has minimal replayability to explore to find "Burnout" Billboards and yellow 
 fences to knock through.
  
  For all these reasons, i give Burnout Paradise an 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Well this game totally pushed the limits from the last one I have played (burnout 3 takedown) . 
 To start with, the crashing of course which has been a main focus of the burnout series from the 
 start, has had a massive improvement. The total amount of decals that fly off your vehicle as you 
 smash into something is just amazing, not to mention the graphics already look very pleasing on 
 HD1080P. Now to the racing events. Racing has had a massive change aswell, instead of being railed 
 on a certain path you can take any route that you possibly want, whether it be all the way around, 
 straight to it or wherever the hell your heart desires. There are also tons of secret routes for 
 you to find, access, and memorize for future use. The stunt event is definately among my favorites, 
 in this event you must do vehicular stunts to score points, ex: big air, barrel rolls, flat spins, 
 I think you get the picture. You get points for turboing, spinning out and doing donuts but the 
 big bucks are where the ramping is at, you get multipliers for big air, barrel rolling, and hitting 
 billboards. Once you memorize paradise city you will do this challenge like cake and enjoy it. 
 Road rage event is pretty interesting this time around aswell, like the other events you can go 
 anywhere you'd like, the only thing i find odd is the other vehicles, if you switch directions 
 within 5 seconds they are flying past you that way. The multiple ways to take out opponents make 
 this gameplay mode very open and fun. The last event is marked man, I don't particularly like this 
 event but its still enjoyable. This one you are considered a marked vehicle and other vehicles 
 weighing far heavier than you are out to get you, while you try to reach a specific destination. 
 There is a total of about 75 cars, each has its own advantages and disadvantages, some are front 
 wheel, some rear wheel and some front wheel drive, it is very creative. Also you can change the 
 colors and design on your vehicle this time around aswell, also doing burning route events earns 
 you an upgraded type of your vehicle, very useful. There are 3 types of car; speed, aggressive, and 
 stunt. Speed you can not use boost until your bar is full, then if you hold it down the entire 
 bar you get a burnout which fills your next bar part of the way. Aggressive vehicles gain boost 
 by aggressive driving and stun vehicles by doing stunts. The online goals are pretty awesome, so 
 far I have not been able to access online due to connection issues (only happens with this game 
 for some reason) but the achievements look pretty awesome for it. All in all this game is a must 
 have for any xbox owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  How can you not love this game?!?! It's amazing!!!
  The graphics: Just what you expect from a 360 game, you almost think it's real.
  The audio: Realistic, 
 clear as crystal.
  The gameplay: Near perfection, you're not just flipping through a menu selecting tracks to race 
 or crash on, you find them yourself in an open city you can explore. Crash Mode, now called Showtime 
 Mode, is Amazingly Fun. It can be accessed at any time, and you can keep it going on and on and 
 on and on. I've crashed into over 200 cars in one Show before, and it can get lots higher than 
 that. You also need to find auto repair shops, gas stations, junk yards and stuff, BP is the most 
 realistic driving game to date. Except for the whole, defy gravity crashes and such.
  The cars: Awesome, a great selection of cars to unlock, it's not hard to find a car you like, and 
 get behind the wheel.
  This is an amazing game, no one can deny it. Who doesnt love doing things in a virtual car that 
 you can't do in reality, that is, without getting arrested or killed.
  This game is near perfect, it'll keep ya busy for a long time. But, prepare to be frustrated when 
 you lose. I cuss and throw my controller all the time.
  So, my advice to you is: Buy this game, Be careful, And have fun doing illegal&death defying stunts.
 
  Burnout: Paradise is definantly a wreckless driver's paradise.
  It's worth the money, best Burnout yet. Do yourself a favor, cough up the dough and drive baby 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  One of the most spectacular sagas of the kingdom of the speed has finally a new delivery. Paradise 
 becomes by own merits in one of the best games of the Burnout series. Exciting like few, with a 
 deep gameplay and graphics that will leave you exhausted, Burnout Paradise is a safe bet. 
  
  Paradise, therefore, supposes a radical turn in the standards that until now had characterized 
 to the Burnout series when presenting/displaying to us a complete city, of a very reasonable size, 
 by which we be able to move to our free will being looked for races and challenges in an exposition 
 that, somehow, remembers to the one from for Need Speed Underground 2. 
  
  What is more evident when we pass some hours with Burnout Paradise it is the detail level that 
 from Criterion has been put in the city to fill it with details and to cause that the component 
 of the exploration is strongly compensated. In fact the first moments with the controls of Paradise 
 can be annoying, without doubt, to the amplitude of possibilities and the absence of concrete goals. 
 And indeed, the brilliant thing of the new Burnout is that a line or a succession of concrete races 
 absolutely does not require following to be enjoyed the 100%; the game works in equally shining 
 form in its facet of exploration as much as like in its more tangible slope of spectacular and 
 vertiginous races modes. 
  
  It's hard to find negative points to a game of the quality of Burnout Paradise, and is that this 
 title will like it or not, but its quality is unquestionable. 
  
  Special mention deserves the multiplayer mode, very care, very intuitive and readily accessible. 
 Also it changes remarkably with respect to the online mode of previous deliveries but the changes, 
 once again are better. The mode is divided in a series of challenges that will vary depending on 
 the number of players available, and the times of delay between game and game will allow us to 
 drive by the city to our will. 
  
  Burnout Paradise is an outstanding driving game and probably the best title in the last months. 
 The release counts with all the things that we can request to a good game of these characteristics: 
 a very fit control, challenging AI and vertiginous races. Spectacular and moving, Burnout Paradise 
 is an accumulation of emotions and all works like a gigantic adrenalin outbreak.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick022
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I have never really gotten into the whole Burnout series, I had originally thought that it was 
 too much of an arcade game for me. I never knew what I was missing. This game has to be the most 
 fun I have personally ever had playing a video game. The graphics are incredible, the challenges 
 are hard, but not impossible, the online is BRILLIANT, and it's just an all around great game. 
 Like I said, I had never played any of the Burnout series, and i didn't even feel lost just jumping 
 into this edition. I personally think the open world is great. Besides, who wants to follow the 
 rules anyway?? The multi player aspect of the game is revolutionary and overwhelmingly incredible. 
 Although, sometimes it's hard to get 8 people to concentrate at the same time to complete some 
 of the challenges, but the reward is definately worth the wait. Anyway, it's a great game and I 
 HIGHLY recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarple_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Its got a few signature feelings from the Burnout series like the slow mo take downs or the slow 
 mo crashes, but in the long run it just seems like to much focus on change and not enough focus 
 on balancing the open environment and the old style.
  
  My biggest disappointment with the open world environment is that it separates the cars. I have 
 always felt in the past it was nice to have all the cars going down the same route and trying to 
 knock each other off the road. Now with the open environment a wrong turn and your totally by yourself. 
 Now just imagine that with an online crowd that could just go in all kinds of directions. Not to 
 mention how most people dont know where there going and have to follow one player that has been 
 playing this game non stop since launch and has memorized every street.... Basically in the end 
 Burnout has been turn into a game of memory and looking at the map. Just not what I wanted out 
 of my next gen Burnout.
  
  What is the game that I wanted you ask?? Well Im o. k. with the open world environment but I would 
 have rather them let us explore the world in none races and when you get to a race I would have 
 rather them block off certain roads and given us a defined route that isn't to hard to follow. 
 Im not saying you cant separate the roads at all, but when you do do it there shouldn't be to many 
 roads to take, and you shouldn't turn out going in the compliment opposite direction.
  
  Also a side note that I might not totally be correct on but It did feel like it happen for me, 
 you be the judge if you play this game. It felt like the ai would slow down a bit towards the end 
 of the race just to allow you to pass it, Im guessing a way to balance the unfairness of the AI 
 always knowing where to go? Im not totally sure If that's what was happening but It did feel like 
 that a few times if I followed the leader enough, all of a sudden I would catch him and he would 
 happily take 2nd place. 
  
  In the end I just feel like they could have made the open environment work better with more defined 
 routes, I shouldn't have to look at the map as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brainless_bonez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, it has its ups and downs thou.
  
  The good: Great graphics, awesome selection of cars, the crashing is amazing. Each car drives like 
 it would in realitiy, which makes it very unique in the burnout series. A big city to explore and 
 find new places. Online play is fun too.
  
  The bad: Music list is ok i guess. One question that leaves everyone speechless, is why the **** 
 would u have the song Girlfriend on the track. A joke, or are they serious, hmmm. The game is to 
 short, i finished it within three days. I mean come on.
  
  The ugly: Nothing really is that bad, they should make the enviroment more destructable, other 
 than that, buy the damn game!
  
  add me on xbox live: MuffinMan 479
  
  i need a cookie
  zzz z zzzzzzz zzzzz zzzz zzzz zzz zz zz zzz zzzz zzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzz 
 zzzz zzzzzzz zzzz zzzzz zzzzzz zzzzz zzzz zzz zzzzzzzz zz zz zz zzzzz zzzzz z zzzz zzz zz zzz zzzzz 
 zzz zzz zzzzzzzz zzzzadd me on myspace too, url: the1andonlytruemuffinman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  EA and Criterion games again presented us a new Burnout game and trust me its a whole new experience 
 .
  
  Burnout Paradise is a open ended world racing game and for first time in a burnout series .You 
 have to explore the large maps of the city to find races , stunts , shortcuts , do smashes , collect 
 billboards and jumps. You have to compete in different types of races to upgade your license . Say 
 you get as usual road rage ( take downs ) , racing challenges as well as new challenges like Marked 
 man ( reach destination before taken down fully by your rivals ) , stunt runs ( do as it says to 
 score its points by doing stunts like burnout , jumps , etc within timer ) and also a new racing 
 challenges called burnout routes (its car specific only ) .You get another set up of new challenges 
 like best time and showtime (crash mode) online / offline .You get to unlock more powerful cars 
 after some races as those cars provoke you to take them down .A new aspect of burnout Paradise 
 is its auto repair centres / paint shops / fuel shops and junkyards .In junkyards you get to save 
 your last location as well as browsing through your cars collection . In paint shops you get to 
 do free paint job on your car . In fuel shops you get to refill your boost and in auto repair shops 
 you get to repair your vechiles mint fresh .Best thing is you can acess above in middle of a race 
 and its totally free of cost .You can take part in races and take your preferable shortcuts to 
 win ahead .The con side of racing is you may end up taking a wrong route fully as the race is open 
 ended too and end up last in a race .For this you have to keep your eyes fully on your maps or 
 retry the races to get a good grip of the roads you missing before .More you race , better cars 
 you get to unlock after taking them down (which automatically gets collected in your junkyards) . 
 Yo get to collect more upgraded versions of your cars from car modes like agression , stunt , speed 
 etc. So choose your car wisely before a event. Say choose best upgraded speed cars before races , 
 etc. You get to acheive the following licenses (after completing the race number slots in each section) 
 to complete burnout challenges fully - E , D , C , B , A , burnout paradise owner , Elite Burnout 
 .
  
  Its multiplayer rocks .Online is very smooth. You get take place in Freeburn events online or do 
 challenges with your freinds .
  
  The games graphics / visuals are top notch if you playing the game specially in your HDTV .
  
 
  The games AI is really smart and don't forgive you for your small miss concentration or playing 
 badly .
  
  Soundquality in Burnout Paradise is cool , but Radio DJ atomica station can get on your nerves 
 sometimes .EA TRACKS are awesome.
  
  In Xbox 360 version you get to earn acheivement points for collecting all smashes , billboards 
 , parking lots , finding all events etc too .
  
  Overall everyracing fans should defintely try Burnout Paradise .Its a superb , fun gaming experience 
 .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringlemin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This game introduced me to the Burnout series. I loved it, plain and simple. This game is amazing, 
 it took me a little longer then I think it would have taken the average gamer to get used to the 
 controls, but that is because I had been playing so much Forza 2 leading up to my purchase of this 
 game. I could not call this game perfect since there are some things that I have still not grasped 
 all that well, I still don't know Paradise City all that well after playing the game for hours. 
 Since a lot of it looks the same to me it is sometimes hard to get my bearings. But, never-the-less, 
 this game is incredible. I do like the city aspect, somewhat confusing as it is. I would certainly 
 recommend this game to racer fans. Hell, I would recommend this game to non-racer fans. This game 
 is strangely addicting, I really don't know why I like it. The cars are sexy, the city is beautiful, 
 and I don't think you will ever run out of things to do while playing this instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Those are the iconic words that greet you as you boot up Burnout Paradise for the first time - 
 and they couldn't be anymore true, (apart from the bit about the pretty girls) . Criterion's fifth 
 entry in the Burnout series is Paradise to play. You may not think so from looking at the crunching 
 metal, but it really is. 
  
  Being a racing series, Burnout has always been pretty linear. You chose an event, pick a car, and 
 you're ready to play. But with Paradise, the formula has been reinvented - and it's for the better. 
 After a short introduction, you pick your car and set off. There is no messing around with menus, 
 you're thrown straight into the action - and you don't even need to race. You see, Burnout Paradise 
 presents you with 250 miles of open road to explore. There are tons of hidden goodies littered 
 all over the city, and I was speeding around trying to find them all before I even thought of taking 
 part in any of the events. 
  
  From the get-go you have the whole world available at your fingertips. There is no need to unlock 
 any of Paradise cities massive environments - they are all there, ready to be smashed up. You'll 
 be blasting your way through billboards and gates in no time. They are hundreds to find and it's 
 immensely enjoyable. Of course you can always take a break from collecting stuff by trying your 
 hand at a heap load of events. Each of them is scattered around the city at each junction - all 
 you need to do is pull up and press the left and right triggers to enter. There are five events 
 in all - from the basic race, to such Burnout classics as Road Rage and Burning Route - with new 
 additions being Stunt Run (where you must reach a specified score by earning points performing 
 such tasks as boosting and jumping) , and Marked Man (where you must reach a destination without 
 being totalled by rival drivers) . All of the new events are enjoyable, although Stunt Mode normally 
 just results in just boosting, looking for a few ramps. 
  
  The Burnout series has always had an exhilarating sense of speed, and Paradise is no different. 
 Racing is the best judge of this, especially when you begin to unlock some of the speed based vehicles. 
 The races have been tweaked allowing you to find your own way to the required destination. There 
 are eight different finishing destinations - one for each point on the compass - and finding your 
 way there is up to you. There are two ways to go about this: you can open up the map and plan your 
 route to the finishing line, or you can follow the games compass (located at the top of the screen) 
 and the flashing street sides and indicators - giving you directions for which street to turn onto 
 next. The system works well with every street being named, and I found it a lot easier to follow 
 the games route rather than make my own way there using the in-game map. Of course there's nothing 
 stopping you using the map, but it breaks up the action and you lose that seamless experience that 
 is so evident throughout the whole game. 
  
  For this years instalment the iconic Crash mode has been scratched in favour of the aptly named 
 Showtime. This can be triggered at any time during the game, sending your car into the air to cause 
 as much devastation as possible. It uses a similar system to Crash with each AI vehicle costing 
 a certain amount in damages. Your goal is to send your vehicle down a path of destruction, hitting 
 everything in your way, to cause a mass amount of damage. You can steer your flaming wreck, and 
 keep it moving with the boost meter. More boost is added with each collisions - with multipliers 
 coming from collisions into certain objects such as buses. Showtime provides an entertaining arcade 
 break from the racing and the fact it can be used anywhere is a great innovation - especially when 
 you enter the online playing field. 
  
  By far the best event on display is Road Rage. Criterion really upped the anti this time around, 
 and Road Rage is just an intense thrill ride of crumpled metal. It's total destruction all the 
 way through, and you can get some exceeding more than ten minutes - racking up tons of takedowns 
 in the process. This is due to the fact that takedowns seem to be a lot easier - probably to ensure 
 maximum mayhem. It's amazing blasting around the world of Paradise city taking out everything in 
 your path. It gets the adrenaline pumping and keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole way 
 through, especially when you witness some of the most amazing crashes ever seen. 
  
  However, one of the problems with each event is the fact that they cannot be restarted if you fail. 
 This presents a problem when you've raced for ten minutes only to lose at the finishing line. Rather 
 than press restart to give it another shot you'll have to turn around and drive all the way back 
 to the starting line. Luckily this only really poses a problem when you're in the latter stages 
 of the game - when there are only a select few races left to go. In the early stages, if I lost 
 an event, I would just try a different one that's closer to me. This removed some of the frustrations 
 that could have been found from re-playing the same event over and over - so in a way it was quite 
 a refreshing experience. 
  
  Burnout Paradise does a good job of keeping a steady framerate. It normally jumps around between 
 50-55 frames per second, and this is a great accomplishment considering the size of the world and 
 intense speed and franticness of the action on show. The visuals are great - the whole world looks 
 stunning. Shadows reflect through scenery, and cars damage in a realistic manner. Some of the crashes 
 look truly spectacular, with areas crumpling and breaking on impact. The game managed to main a 
 glossy feel, even with all the destruction surrounded around it. 
  
  The soundtrack is typical EA fare with a decent mix of skater rock, R'n'B and dance music - with 
 some old classics from the first three Burnout games. Overall the sound is top notch. Each car 
 sounds distinctly different, with some of the more powerful vehicles sounding really menacing. 
 You can hear the wind rushing through the seams on your coupe as you accelerate past 150mph, and 
 it really enhances that breathtaking sense of speed. Crashes sound brilliant, especially when the 
 game quietens and enters slow motion a split-second before you make impact. And Host DJ Atomika 
 does a good job of explaining different areas of the game, keeping you informed at all times. 
 
  
  The online side of things provides a hugely enjoyable break from the single player. You can enter 
 Freeburn - which is essentially free-roam - with up to eight people on Live. It's great driving 
 around together, completing set challenges, and taking each other out. The seamless experience 
 remains intact, and you'll lose hours just messing around with friends. There are also races to 
 compete that are essentially the same as in the single-player. You can tweak settings like traffic, 
 and car choice, so you can race how you want. It maintains the games frantic nature, and also brings 
 back the Burnout Rivals feature seen in Burnout: Revenge - so you can really get some rivalry's 
 going with your mates. 
  
  Burnout Paradise is a great package. The world of Paradise City is great fun to explore - you can 
 get lost within it for hours just trying to find all the billboards and gates. There are a few 
 niggles with the lack of restarts, and unlocking new cars can sometimes be a bit aggravating - 
 you have to find them and take them out before being able to use them. But the pros out-way the 
 cons and Burnout Paradise is certainly the most exhilarating racing game you can find on the market 
 at this moment in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a Racing Game with a slight twist all teh other Burnouts are in Closed Circuits 
 this is Free Roaming you Drive around Find Events Do em and win Cars or Marks on your Licence. 
 Licences are what you use to tell what rank you are Top is Elite Bottom Learner. To new comers 
 to Burnout this may very Challenging at First then you will slowly Ease into it for Diehard Fans 
 this might also be werid but you will get the Hang of it in a few mins. Multiplayer Is probaly 
 what you will be doing for awhile to come you only race online wich sucks and Freeburn and Do challenges. 
 The Challenges can be really crazy crap or simple junk. Theres a ton of Achievements that cam be 
 done online so some Achievement Peeps will be playing online with a Begining Car (lol) . The Cars 
 in the Game are Very Interesting to Very crappy looking but you can do what the game calls Burning 
 routes to unlokc and more Powerful Version. Before you can do that However you need to find em 
 when the time comes the DJ will say This car has just appeared Cruising around Paradise City. You 
 just Takeitdown to win it. Boost Types are Simple Aggression- Takdown and wreck Car
  Stunt- you gain most boost from Jumps and stunts
  Speed- The other 2 are just normal Burnout 
 you can activate at any TIME BUT speed you can activate once everytime its short metter Fills
 
  
  Now to talk about the Graphics and sound and sutch
  
  Graphics- 10 there beutiful and when stuff wrecks its top Notch
  Sound-9 Sometimes Flawed but 
 it sounds like your driveing a real Car
  Music-5 Crappiest Crap i have ever Heard
  Value-10 you will play this game for time to come
  
  Overall-9.5 Game needed a Few Twinks to 
 make it better but stil Burnout Paradise is a Awesome Racing Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Paradise city, home of crashes, wrecks, beautiful cars, and dont forget the awesome Dj Atomica. But 
 we all can't forget bout what burnout is really about... Racing.. Really really really fast.
  
  -Gameplay-
  Its Burnout.. So not much to say other than the usual crashing, taking people 
 down, and leaving them in the dust. But, Criterion added the Free roam ability along with things 
 tht you have to hit, (Smashes, and Billboards)
  The gameplay has been polished considerably. 9/10
  
  -Audio-
  The music playlist for this 
 game is about 70 songs long and most of them was Criterions creations from the old burnout games. But 
 there is good songs on the playlist. Changing gears now to the car sounds, Which ARE FREAKING FANTASTIC! 
 Every car has their own distinct sound and rumble. If your driving that Hunter Reliable truck, 
 you will find it sputter a bit and roar while on the other hand, if your driving the Roadster , 
 You will hear a lighter drone sound. Fantastic car sounds .but the music playlist could have been 
 better. (though you could stick your Mp3 in and play your own stuff) 8/10
  
  -Replay Value-
  Personally, I wouldt replay it because its so long to get to the good cars and 
 the better licenses, But replaying it would pass the time if need be.
  7/10
  
  -Online-
  The online mulitplayer is completely fun. You actually still get to free roam in Paradise city 
 and race when the Admin makes a race. Also, there are 350 challenges that requires your buddies 
 to help out, and completeing that gives you a nice ride to massacre people in. The online is a 
 beautiful experience. 10/10
  
  -Overall-
  After blazing through Paradise city and destroying peoples cars , I feel that this game is highpoint 
 of the Burnout series. Beautifully made, polished gameplay and fun online makes this game a must 
 have for any 360 or Ps3 owner.
  8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadynate82
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The last two burnout series, this one and revenge added new game-play features that kinda left 
 their fans a bit hesitant at start. With revenge, the traffic check which turned to be quite fun 
 was at first a suicide of realism. 
  
  Now Burnout paradise has arrived and at first the open end real world driving experience is astounding.
 
  
  Pros: 
  To start the game and just drive burnout style at your free will is something I think the series 
 needed. The crashes are an upgrade worthy of its own game. Everything slows down to give you unique 
 car crunching experience. 
  Get a race started and enjoy the carnage that ensues as you and a handful of other drivers tear 
 up each street you blaze through to reach the finish. Marked man is an awesome addition. The sound 
 effects in this game are great you can hear metal crunching and tires squealing on the turns. As 
 well you can hear many audible noises during the race that wraps you in the experience. Graphics 
 are definitely a solid gold medal.
  
  Cons: 
  The navigating takes a lot to get use to. The long races that you do in the beginning of the game 
 fail for taking the wrong turn on memory lane. Driving for hours memorizing streets is not a bad 
 idea. Not being able to select a race on the map instead of driving to them can at times be tedious, 
 especially when it's a burning lap. The soundtrack this time around is not all that great. An attempt 
 to reach a wide genre it actually hurts the racing experience. for the first time I had to edit 
 songs I hate from the play list.
  
  This Burnout does everything the fans ask for. Have a race, tear the streets, crash and turn to 
 the finish line while listening to your favorite music all in one game. It's quite a paradise.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is one of those games that catch your eye. When You Start playing the game it 
 is pretty good. You win races in order to upgrade to your burnout license. The minimum number of 
 wins keeps increasing to get a higher license. The open world concept is good but getting to your 
 favorite type of race can be a bit hectic. You have a wide selection of cars but you have to unlock 
 them first. Paradise brings burnout to a new level. Overall its a good game game but only buy it 
 if your into racing and bashing up things (including your own car) . I would say Burnout Paradise 
 is a game that lives up its name. Try it out. Its great fun. The only problem i had was with songs. 
 They could have been better. I give Paradise an 8.5. Old burnout fans might find the change a bit 
 too much but i would say it is for the better. New and old players alike will have a lot of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armanie14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  The game itself is good, although the same thing has been done so many times before, this makes 
 the game very repetitive. It is alot like the other burnout games with improved graphics and better 
 controls. Also anytime you slightly hit an oncoming vehicle or wall there's a big scene which can 
 get annoying. 
  
  The burnout series has officially come to an end for me, i thought they could come out with somthing 
 different this time and they have tried with the free-roam stles, buts not enough to make a difference. 
 
  
  On a lighter note, the game is good and it has lots of unique races events etc, and i like the 
 take down or shut down things where you can claim other racers cars. The game itself although i 
 hacent completed it yet doesnt seem very long obtaining the licenses can be done in a very short 
 space of time. the only thing that would take longer would be the other challenges for example 
 smashing through billboards, and the gates. 
  
  Overall a good game, but we have all seen it before. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I am a big Burnout Series Fan, so my review might be a little bit biased. While I am a racing fan 
 of simulation games like Forza Motorsport and MotoGP 07, I do enjoy a few arcade racing games.
 
  Graphics wise this is a well detailed game. You can read (albeit dangerous) the license plates 
 on other cars. The lighting from the sun shines off high gloss paint jobs like in real life. The 
 small detail damages are realistic; if you broke a headlamp it stays broken and doesnt light 
 up. The back ground is realistic enough to tell distance. Ive played this at both regular 
 television and hi definition 1080p while it is still good at the lowest setting I highly recommend 
 the playing at the highest possible detail.
  Sound and Music. You can tell from just driving around what types of cars are around you with even 
 having to look at that area. The screeching of the tires to the roar of an engine is clear with 
 any vehicle you use. Now the music, quantity or quality wise you will not be disappointed. There 
 are a lot of songs that play while driving around so chances are if you play for an hour or two, 
 you will not hear the same song twice. And you dont like a particular song you can always 
 take if off the play list. One should note that a good portion of songs are the same songs from 
 older Burnout Games. 
  Now Game play.
  As you win events you upgrade your license. The higher the license, the larger amount of vehicles 
 you will be able to use. These events are littered all thought Paradise City. To start the event 
 simple pull up to a light to start it.
  Here is the events.
  Races: Standard Race. From one to seven other opponents you drive to a specific end point.
  Road 
 Rage: Timed Event. You use your vehicle as a battering ram to smash other vehicles into traffic, 
 walls or other hard objects. Target amount is usually displayed. Event ends when either you take 
 to much damage or time ends.
  Marked Man: Almost like a race. You goal is to reach one destination while four other computer 
 cars try to inflict enough damage to keep you from reaching your destination.
  Stunts: Use your vehicle like a little acrobat, jumping off ramps, crashing bill boards and doing 
 spins. The more you do in a sequence the more points you get. There is a target score to get per 
 event.
  Burning Route: One route per vehicle. Its a timed race where you just have to get to the 
 finish line by a certain time using a certain vehicle. Every route you finish unlocks a upgraded 
 version of the vehicle used.
  All these events get a bit more difficult as the game wears on but not that much more. I would 
 say once you get used to the way the game plays you find that most of these events range from easy 
 (one or two attempts) to medium (fifteen minutes maximum) .
  Now there are a few side events or tasks that are fun to do. Running certain billboards, barriers, 
 and super jumps. They are littered everywhere, cant be avoided just driving around. There are few 
 hidden but find to fun all of them and as a reward for finding all it unlocks more vehicles. There 
 are also two events per street, one is time trails and the other is showtime. Showtime is just 
 you bouncing around hitting vehicles for points.
  Online play is quite fun with tasks and races, connections are usually stable. One thing I like 
 is with Xbox Live Vision take a photo of you when you get taken out by another drive and sent to 
 the aggressor. The online experience is a whole new game in itself and worth playing.
  Although its a very good game here is a few of the things I didnt like. Showtime 
 is very repetitive in the sense you have to do it to all 64 streets of Paradise City. Also Showtime 
 replaced Crash from previous games. The on line challenges are very repetitive where if 2 players 
 you have to do it for 7 players. And some of them are very very basic like driving in oncoming 
 traffic. Also while doing online challenges if one person get disconnected, the challenges are 
 cancelled. The difficulty level is somewhat misleading as the more cars you unlock the easier the 
 game is when trying to do the events.
  One last thing that kind of surprised me is the amount of advertising in the game, from billboards 
 to vans there is way too much advertising in this game. To show how much advertising there are 
 four unlockable cars, all of them are plastered with the names.
  In all this is a great game with lots of driving ahead of you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Being new to the Burnout franchise I went into this latest iteration of the series oblivious as 
 to what to really expect from the title. While an arcade racer in nature, a run of the mill driving 
 experience ala PGR, Forza, Sega Rally or NFS it certainly isn't.
  
  The big selling point of this title compared to it's predecessors is its new open world aspect, 
 the same you would find in say a GTA or Driver game.
  You start driving around the games city, aptly named 'Paradise City' in a shabby wreck of a car. 
 At your own free will you can participate in a significant number of events which are located at 
 every crossroad and junction you pass through. While overwhelming at first, it doesn't take too 
 long for you to acquaint yourself with the city and it's adjoining surroundings. Soon enough you'll 
 be driving from place to place taking various shortcuts you've discovered on your travels just 
 like it was your own local neighbourhood.
  
  The events you'll find in Paradise city can vary between straight forward street races, point A-B 
 survival runs with AI cars trying to force you off the road and stunt runs in which the citys natural 
 and artificially placed obstacles or ramps can be used to string together a ludicrous score in 
 the same way you'd link together a combo in the Devil May Cry series by following one outrageous 
 trick after another. 
  
  In and out of these events in the games form of a freeroam mode named 'freeburn' you're encouraged 
 to crash your other computer controlled rivals off the street into what's termed a 'takedown'. 
 By doing this you're treated to a slow motion scene of the opponents car (or indeed your own if 
 you mess up) flipping over and breaking into a satisfying collection of pieces and wreckage. As 
 an added incentive you also claim this taken down car to boot, adding it to the selection of cars 
 available to drive from various junkyards around the city (which base as your garage) . The crashes 
 all happen in real time and don't interrupt the flow of action with various parts and pieces all 
 crumpling ,breaking and shattering themselves realistically and believably.
  
  As well as completing the games set events there's also a great deal of exploration to perform 
 in the city. There's finding super jumps which are as the name suggests extreme versions of normal 
 sized jumps and also billboards which usually take experimentation or plain luck to find out how 
 to break by driving or flying straight through them.
  
  The cars you drive while fictional in make and design all handle like real life counterparts and 
 all of which look stunning. In no time you'll be able to flat spin, barrel roll off ramps, power-park 
 or perform hand-break turns with quite considerable ease. All the 75 cars available to you come 
 in one of three classes; speed, stunt and aggression. A slight turn of strategy is involved by 
 the player deciding which car is better suited for each event in which they partake. Obviously 
 a stunt car will make racking up a huge combo score easier for a stunt run, but put that same car 
 into a takedown race where all the AI cars are gunning to impale you on the nearest building and 
 it won't survive a mere gentle shunt let alone a head on collision.
  
  Fun as the single player experience is the real meat of the game is in it's online mode. It's here 
 that upto 8 people via XBL can join in the same city and either engage in races, challenge events 
 in which a task is layed out for all the drivers to complete or just simply enjoying cruising around 
 trying to outdo each others scores in various Burnout disciplines such as who can drift the furthest 
 or drive the longest in oncoming traffic. A neat added extra in the multiplayer is the inclusion 
 of camera support which will upload a snapshot of yourself following a takedown to your smug assailant 
 as he drives away. It's a very clever and novel way of making use of the 360's so far under-used 
 camera attachment and almost worth a purchase for the feature alone.
  
  Despite Burnouts many admirable qualities there is also a handful of bad points along with the 
 good. 
  
  The camera view while low to give the game a sense of speed can sometimes obscure proceedings and 
 more often than not you'll find yourself wrecking by misjudging a turn or vehicle pass by the smallest 
 of possible margins. The lack of a retry feature on race & time trial events often means you'll 
 have to spend more time driving to and from failed attempts then actually racing itself. While 
 not game breaking it certainly adds a degree of annoyance to making any progress within the game. 
 It could be argued that this forced attempt to make you drive from location to location makes you 
 investigate the route and it's surroundings but I feel it should have been the players choice whether 
 to do this or not. 
  
  Another problem is the cars. While some vehicles are obviously better than others during the course 
 of the game, a great deal of them stutter around the mediocre mark with very little difference 
 between any of them. Finally the game's direction indicator can be very hard to follow, especially 
 during a race. Whilst the game encourages you to find your own route to a given location, for the 
 first couple of hours as you're learning the city layout just getting from point A to B can be 
 an excercise in frustration as you constantly over-run turnings that you were supposedly ment to 
 take.
  
  The soundtrack is also the usual hash of the EA marketing machine at work with Disturbed and Avril 
 making their umpteenth appearance in a video game. Driving music it certainly isn't. It should 
 be noted that Adam Ant & Faith No More was a welcome (if not bizarre) inclusion however.
  
  If you're a fan of driving games but feel after playing Forza for the simulation side and PGR for 
 arcade thrills that there's very else left to choose from in-between. Burnout is defiantly worth 
 a look-in for an altogether different driving experience. While some aspects of the game could 
 certainly do with some tweaks or alterations to lower the end users annoyance factor, overall it's 
 an enjoyable ride well worth taking a cruise in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0ppi3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  this has to be one of they best burnouts made the graphics are so good the crashes are kinda realistic 
 but who care who dosnt like to see a car bouncing acroos the road after coming off a jump sideways 
 at 250kms nice.
  with so many things to chose from races, takedown just to name a couple and a huge range of cars 
 to choose from after about 10 hours you'l have heaps of cars to chose from and the music is actully 
 preety good theres a few crap song but other then tht theres a few songs tht ul probly like. A 
 massive area for u to explore is also great fun with jumps cliffs also the multiplayer is so easy 
 to get into with just a few clicks and bam there u are in the middle of a game
  
  though the races get a bit continues with just point to point races over and over again but the 
 worst thing for me online would have to be the othere online players who just want to do challenges 
 so they can get there gamer score up burnout was made for smashing sure i dont mind doing a challeng 
 or two every now and again but dam this people just hammer the challenges one after the other and 
 the just try to avoid being in stack and then wen u finly hit them they give u a bad rep and if 
 there host they kik u other then tht a brillent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  My approach to a driving game is simple hold the accelerator, and occasionally hit the brake far, 
 far too late.
  
  It's this very tactic, the one that results in embarrassing defeats in most driving games, that 
 makes Burnout oh so very satisfying. And now we've been given a whole city in which to be reckless.
 
  
  Now, I'm not going to use phrases as irresponsible as "real" or "living and breathing" to describe 
 Paradise City, because it is quite obviously neither. There are no non-motorised inhabitants for 
 one, and I'm fairly certain that when towns and cities are planned, questions such as "Is this 
 a fun corner to take sideways, at 250mph in what probably used to be a car?" aren't asked, or if 
 they are, the opposite answer is desired. Also, it may just be Basingstoke being typically characterless, 
 but our pavements are conspicuously clear of ramps designed to send cars into barrel roles.
  
  Paradise is expansive however, not to mention stunningly pretty and superbly designed. You 
 get the impression that it's many, many individual tracks layered on top of each other with a web 
 of connecting roads. The effect this has is that it always feels natural tearing around the streets 
 at break-neck (and everything else) speeds, essentially moving from circuit to circuit in an impressively 
 fluid way.
  
  Of course, this also means that there are no set tracks for the events (which can all be started 
 dynamically, just by pulling up to traffic lights) , you're simply given a starting point, and in 
 most cases a finishing point and told to go for your life. As such, races are often won or lost 
 with navigation decisions. Indeed, during my learning curve in Paradise, I often found myself making 
 ridiculously dull-brained wrong turns and ending up on the interstate or something equally useless. 
 This soon passed though and it wasn't long before I could confidently navigate the majority of 
 the city with the help of the map and compass.
  
  It's also here, in the freeformity of the events, that I find my first major gripe. In the event 
 that you do take the wrong corner and find yourself in last place with no chance to catch up, there's 
 no easy way to quit the race and retry it. You can quit the race quite easily, by stopping the 
 car for a couple of seconds but then you have to get back to the original starting point to retry 
 it. This is dulled somewhat by the amount of races and challenges available to you at any one time, 
 as you're never more than a minute or so away from a set of traffic lights but still, if I lose 
 a race my first instinct is to retry it and make sure I give the previous winner a damn good kicking 
 second time around.
  
  This is but a minor niggle though, compared to the flurry of impressive features and mechanics 
 that have been introduced. For example, there are now only three classes of car; Speed, Aggression 
 and Stunt, but they differ fundamentally in their handling of one important area, boost. Speed 
 class cars are light, fast and behave just like they used to back in Burnout 2, with the boost 
 bar building up gradually and only becoming usable when full, however if you use the whole bar 
 in one stint you'll achieve an eponymous "Burnout" and the boost bar will refill quicker. 
  
  The secret here is in the chaining of the burnouts, allowing you to essentially boost forever. 
 Aggression cars however, are more suited to the Road Rage and Marked Man events as they're heavier, 
 stronger and generally slower. Their boost mechanism is very similar to that employed in Burnout 
 3: Takedown, as the boost bar fills and grows as you take other racers down. 
  
  Stunt class cars occupy the middle ground, they have a good mix of both strength and speed and 
 a large boost bar that can be used at any time. 
  
  This means that as well as choosing the right route, you also have to choose the right car. The 
 other thing that Burnout is known for, other than the boosting, is the crashes, and these are as 
 well represented as ever. Crash mode in its previous incarnations has been removed and replaced 
 with Showtime, which can be activated at any time with the press of a couple of buttons. Apart 
 from this change though, it remains pretty much as it was, the goal is to hit things with your 
 wreck, racking up obscene bills and trying to beat the record for most damage caused on that stretch 
 of road. 
  
  The aftertouch guidance is still there, although now you can bounce along the road using your boost 
 bar as you go, no longer relying on other cars to give you momentum.
  
  While it's a shame to see Crash mode go, it's good to see it replaced with a worthy successor. 
 Granted, it's now more about your control of the crash rather than the approach and it lacks that 
 degree of randomness that it had in the past but it's still a lot of fun.
  
  The spontaneous crashes have received the same love and attention that they have in previous games, 
 with the action changing perspective and slowing down to emphasise the impacts. The sickening crunches, 
 crumpling metalwork and vast array of jettisonedbits, are enough to make you reassess how stupid 
 it is to get in a ton of metal, fill it with a flammable liquid and make it go fast But only for 
 a second.
  
  Like the other Burnout titles, there is a fair emphasis on multiplayer, but this time around it's 
 handled entirely online with no splitscreen action available. This is a definite disappointment, 
 as we'll miss the opportunity to pile your opponent into the crash barrier and do the "your car 
 has been obliterated in a shower of sparks" dance in their face.
  
  To make up for this though, the online features are plentiful and seamlessly integrated into the 
 experience, including the option to display a photo of your opponent at the exact moment of humiliation 
 using the PlayStation Eye or Xbox 360 camera.
  
  Thus providing the icing on an extremely large, and very speedy cake. Paradise is by no means as 
 perfect as the name implies but it's the closest the franchise has come to the glory days of Burnout 
 3 since, well, the glory days of Burnout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wats66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  the AI is great, the open world environment is large and filled with cool niches at every corner, 
 audio and video are excellent, gameplay is excellent. selection and variety of cars is great, though 
 it feels odd zipping through downtown in an F1 pocket rocket decked out in Wal-Mart logos. still 
 it's a ton of fun and the challenges are very cool. the only thing missing is the crashbreaker 
 mode that made burnout revenge so much fun. for the record, the carson annihilator (and annihilator 
 phoenix) gets my vote as best car in the game. Wal-Mart F1 a close second. the only real negative 
 to this game is that the "upgraded" cars won in the time challenges aren't really an improvement 
 over the existing models. they just look different and have maybe a touch more boost. i'd like 
 to see a third option, after beating the same time challenge twice (second time more difficult) , 
 earning a markedly upgraded version of the car, so that you are tempted to actually use it in lieu 
 of the A-class rides that you win later in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best racing/destruction game of 08 and it will stay that way because I dont think any 
 racing game that can beat this game. I usally dont like racing games but I go for the highest rated 
 games. Forza Mortorsport 2 wasnt that bad so I figured BP would be good, and it is! Graphics are 
 beautiful, Crashs are beautifal, and the destruction is gorgeous! Not only is this a racing game 
 but it has road rage missions. Well I cant say the concept is different from the other Burnouts 
 but they improves the graphics and the songs. I mean like in the other ones I didnt know one song 
 but I know 4 songs in this one, what an improvment! But anyway this is a must buy for any one who 
 likes racing games, destruction games, abd road rage. So as a say to every good game, BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Well I must say the open world concept was iffy at first when i played the demo. So i ended bought 
 it the first day it was released.... not sure if that was a good idea.
  
  First off the good. The free-world is definitely fun, i mean driving around causing chaos and being 
 able to stop for an event at any intersection keeps you entertained for hours with the usual unlocking 
 cars, harder events once u progress, etc... u know the regular burnout theme... Wonderful it works 
 great. 
  The Graphics are damn good. Crash effects are so freakin detailed its unreal and every piece of 
 metal crumples like it should. awesome!
  The City of Paradise also looks stunning with a good mix of terrain from Mountains to hectic city 
 traffic lights.
  Some people complained about the music but its decent Rock new and old... the sound effects are 
 dead on good. no complaints there.
  
  Online is awesome minus the missing part of rivalries but hey you can't win them all right?
  
 
  The bad!
  OK if anyone has ever tried using the STEERING WHEEL (yes the microsoft one) it likes to stick from 
 time to time when your turning and becomes very frustrating!!!!! (example u turn oue way. want to 
 straighten out our countersteer and your car just sticks turning no matter what u do... weird!) 
 other than that the controller works well so stick with that. (oh and my friend tried this as well 
 with his wheel and same results.)
  
  The CRASH mode... umm rolling your car down the street like a tumbleweed in the wind gets lame pretty 
 quick and some highscore crashes can takes literally minutes to finish. not a big fan of this gets 
 boring damn quick. (i really loved this mode in the previous burnouts)
  
  The City is a fair size but could of been bigger. For example in the North Mountain section theres 
 alot of open space on the map that could of been used... easily!
  
  
  I've been playing since Burnout 2 was released way back when on the PC. For diehard fans its a 
 good addition to your collection but i think ill be trading in my copy soon. I beat the game (burnout 
 license) in less than 10 hours and hardly used any burnout routes. The decision is yours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rank_Reaper69
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Ok, lets get one thing straight about Burnout Paradise it is practically impossible to get from 
 one place to another without completely screwing your car over. In Burnout Paradise you will start 
 off with one car then as you work you're way through the game you will be able to unlock 75 different 
 cars with higher or lower stats then your previous vehicles. There are three types of cars in Paradise 
 and they are: Aggressive, Stunt & Speed each one will help you out with different events. There 
 are a lot of events that you have probably never seen in the previous Burnout's although you can 
 only play the event once if you want a mark on you're licence. When playing Burnout you will get 
 a mark from every event you win that mark will go to you're licence and once you get to a certain 
 amount you're licence will be upgraded. The different types of licence's that you will be able 
 to access are: (In Descending Order) D, C, B, A, Burnout Licence & Elite Licence you will gain 
 a new car every time you get your new licence. You will also be able to gain cars by winning events 
 sometimes you will get one soon as you win but sometimes the car will be cruising around Paradise 
 and you will have to take it out. Burnout Paradise has a real unique game engine that really makes 
 the game a lot more fun and better looking. Most of time when you crash the screen will go in slow 
 mo and lead you into some insane car crash you'll never forget. Although when it comes to the online 
 game play make sure your Internet speed isn't to slow because you don't want to be trying to take 
 down some guy that just wrecked your car and then soon as you hit him he doesn't even move. Other 
 then that the game really is one you should really be seeing in you're game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiKZor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  In this thrilling new open racing world, you'll smash, crash, and destroy your opponent's hopes, 
 dreams, and cars. With around 70 cars to race with, you'll find yourself using anything from a 
 Compact car, to an F1, to a Dirt racing truck.
  The idea of 3 types of cars is very cool. Players choose from either Speed, Stunt, or Aggression 
 type. Each type has different rules and priorities for earning boost. This can really help to decide 
 which kind of car you'll use in event, though you really could do a race with an aggression type 
 if you wanted.
  I really felt that this game could've used some better music, as the soundtrack is pretty tasteless. 
 
  Sometimes you really do wish there was a menu, as some races may become difficult. You may find 
 yourself doing a long race, lose, and then have to drive all the way back to the event to retry 
 it. 
  I am actually a little disappointed in the crashes in this game though, as they are fast, vicious, 
 and the damage effects leave your car with the imprint of that wall you just smashed into, but, 
 i liked it better in say, Burnout 3, when your opponents would fly up as high as a 25 story building. 
 
  The speed in this game is very fast, probably the fastest game I've ever played, and yes F-Zero, 
 that includes you too. 
  You'll lose yourself for hours in this gigantic city, finding races, and enemy racers you can smash 
 and take their ride. I found that i had beaten the game, technically, but after the game was finished, 
 there were still around 100 races I hadn't completed. You only need somewhere in the range of 60 
 races. I also still have about 12 or 13 cars left to unlock. There are also all the jumps I need 
 to complete, the Smashes left, and the numerous Billboard you get a kick out of diving through.
 
  Overall I gave this game about an 8.5/10 because, it has impressive visuals, and a vast open city 
 with many races, but i was disappointed in the soundtrack, lack of being able to restart a mission/ 
 quit a current one, and the crashes didn't seem worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKX8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Being a hardcore fan of Burnout 3: Takedown but loathing its predecessors and ensuing Burnout 4: 
 Revenge, I was slightly tentative of purchasing this -- despite the superb reviews. Ultimately I 
 decided upon a rental, not desiring to be ripped-off of $60 in case I was disappointed.
  
  I'm not. The graphics are extraordinary, gritty, and chaotically realistic. The sounds effects 
 are great. The Crash-FM DJ is sardonic though often bland; the car designs are well-done even for 
 being based upon real models. The free-roaming expanse is as fun if not more than Test Drive: Unlimited 
 and the mini-games like smashing Burnout billboards, making the Super Jumps, and discovering yellow-lit 
 fenced-in shortcuts brings a whole new length to the game's already vast experiences.
  
  My only complaints are the overrated (IMO) Showtime Mode, which replaces the already mediocre Crash 
 Mode from B3, the absence of the Crashbreaker ability from B4, the unrealistically trivial yet 
 bizarre invisibility of even a silhouette behind-the-wheel to any of the cars, the inability to 
 pinpoint markers on your GPS/map to a destination, and the lack of markers to identify your opponents.
 
  
  Ultimately, though, this game delivers. And yet I fin myself on the verge of accepting it over 
 my all-time racing favorite B3; nonetheless, they seem like such different games. B3 feels more 
 cartoonishly vibrant after playing even an hour of Burnout: Paradise, a more vast yet gritty world 
 of destructive racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Burnout series and I was excited to hear that Burnout Paradise was comming 
 out so I went out and bought it and it is freakin awsome and there is a lot to be said about this 
 game except for the stupid radio host DJ Atomica just needs to jump off a cliff otherwise this 
 game hit the ball perfectly 
  
  The Cars: O M G beautiful the cars are amazing in looks and speed now they added different classes 
 of cars like the Stunt car already owns a Nitro gauge and they are best with the stunts like barrel 
 rolls and spins, the Speed well pretty easy to understand it is used for the speedsters and racers 
 although you get a small Nitro Bar when it gets full and you use it all up you get a second one, 
 and Aggression well can knock people off the roads easier and can with stand more beatings which 
 it can be useful in Marked Man and Road Rage modes. To earn a car is either upgrade your license 
 or beat a challange and knock it off the road and earn it.
  
  Paradise City: The whole map if your playground and sandbox of racing and destruction. You dont 
 get race tracks like from the previous games the whole city is your track and it can with you or 
 against you. Shortcuts are available, but some can take you the wrong way use the map and make 
 good choices!
  
  Events: The events are made up of Racing which no need to explain its obvious, Marked Man when 
 you are the marked man and you get hunted by enemy vehicles and make it to the marked point on 
 the map, Stunts is where you earn enough points by doing an assortment of tricks, and road rage 
 where you try and take out the the number of vehicles it requires you to defeat. 
  
  Controls: Same as all other burnouts
  
  Graphics: AMAZING!
  
  Overall: 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_rebelion
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok so yet again another car racing game goes free roaming. Ok that might not be such a bad thing 
 but just like anything else it's starting to age. I can't complain to much though this game isn't 
 any less than snazzy! 
  
  Free roaming blues aside the game itself works well. With Plenty of gates and Billboards to smash 
 up. On every corner a new challenge awaits (Literally) it definitely is an interesting way to keep 
 you on your toes. Beyond that there isn't much substance really. Collect cars, Collect cars, and.... Collect 
 cars.
  
  One small pet peeve is (I know this is an arcade racer) but there is no driver in the seat, I guess 
 I have no imagination.
  
  Graphics: A+++ One of the best racing game graphics yet.
  Gameplay: A- Sometimes gets dry but still fun 
  Re playability : A++ Very replayable
  
  Overall 
 this is a good game some small things urk me but don't bring the game down at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up this game I was hoping to god that this game was going to be fun. Like I said 
 on my review on DiRT that I am not a huge fan of racers, but Burnout Paradise might have changed 
 that opinion of mine around
  
  Like in Crackdown BP is an open world game that happens to be a racer in a large city called Paradise 
 City. You can explore basically the whole city discovering races, marked man events, and many more 
 types. The city isn't that bad looking infact it is the best looking city that I've ever seen in 
 a game. It come a Hollywood looking sign, a San Diego habitat or whatever you call it, and New 
 York city buildings and skyscrapers. Truly it does look like badboy town and it is
  Not much to say about the graphics other than THEY FREAKIN ROCK! Like I said the city looks amazing 
 and getting to paint your cars is also awesome (TIP: If you have a car called the spur make it 
 have a gold finish and paint it with black. WARNING: It looks radd dude!) . Anyways enough with 
 that.
  The soundtrack could be better. The only band or mucision I in the game is stupid Avrel Levine 
 and Guns n' Roses. I wish they could put some more popular bands in like My Chemical Romance or 
 Green Day. That might have given me some addrenelin or somtin.
  Conclusion: Awesome intense races and other cool events; this game is for anyone that likes racers 
 or just loves the adrenelin. If you've played the demo and you didn't like it well please just 
 believe me that the actual full game isn't as crappy as you may think it is.
  
  Peace wait no let me change that - Violence
  Violence
  From Jake - a. k. a jonjonsilver 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  EA delivered something new to the burnout series whether people liked it or not. The environment 
 looks huge at first, but playing hours of this game will make you soon realize its not that big. 
 Traffic will piss you off like no other, and at some point you just won't find the right car. but 
 its just leads you to find the right one and that's were they did the game right. 
  
  gameplay - the bad is single player can get real repetitive and it doesn't help your events get 
 reset with every new license. the good.... online play is always there and its fun as hell. with 
 multiplayer challenges you will love playing online whether its racing or challenges. I wish they 
 had more events like stunt or takedown events. they kind of replace this by having scored on each 
 street buts its not enough unless your a burnout super freak!
  
  graphics - much better then any burnout game and unless your a FPS freak you should be fine.
 
  
  overall - more of a multiplayer game then a single player game because it got real boring and this 
 was after receiving a burnout license (2nd to last) . Achievements are easy to achieve and it doesn't 
 take too much to accomplish... just time. Have fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerzone23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, if you are a fan of running people off ont he road, you should seriously 
 pick this one up.
  
  The Bad
  The guy's voice can get quite annoying & so dose the Dj.
  The 1st, 2nd &3rd levels can become quite confusing... it dosen't add up to it's name. Last but 
 not lease, over all... they could have selected more enviroment.
  
  The Good
  I love the fact you are able to start your car up on your own, it's very cool.
  The online is 
 very amazing. The cars are to die for and so are the crashes. This is a very fun game, overall 
 and if your a brunout fan, you'll love it indeed.
  The is a game you never want to bypass when you buy a new game. You wouldn't want to get off of 
 it. Also, I love the fact of the idea of the driver Id idea. It is soo amazing. You are able to 
 add your own personal photo to it. 
  And the snap shots... is soo amazing. If you have a Eye toy or your Xbox live cam, your going to 
 be in for a sweet action online.
  
  Over all
  Amazing gameplay and it is very fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me be %100 honest, I did not like Burnout Paradise the first couple of times I played it. The 
 city is huge, nicely detailed, but hard to get around at top speeds when you first start playing. 
 There have been a good amount of races that I have failed because I missed a turn, or had trouble 
 navigating the mini-map and getting timing down with the blinking street signs (at the top of the 
 HUD) .
  
  Now, to me, the Burnout series has always been a good racing "distraction." I love the super speed, 
 the arcade feel, and the fact that it makes you want to crash the other competitors. My one outstanding 
 gripe with the game is that there is no more slo-mo crash mode. In the previous Burnouts you could 
 hold down a button and try to stear your newly wrecked car towards other racers to try and take 
 them out with you. I can't understand for the life of me why this feature was removed for Burnout 
 Paradise.
  
  I know that sounds like a lot of complaining, but check the breakdown below:
  
  The Good - 
 Highly detailed city, great graphics, arcade gameplay that rewards what makes serious racing games 
 so tedious.
  
  The Bad - It really does take some getting used to (I started enjoying the game when I got my second 
 liscense) , the first round of cars you get handle HORRIBLY at high speeds.
  
  The Ugly - Missing a crucial turn during a race, WHERE THE HECK IS MY SLO-MO CRASH CONTROL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -047-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  I've been a Burnout fan since number 3, and after playing this I can safely say that the Burnout 
 series is still going strong and doesn't look like slowing down anytime soon.
  
  The gameplay has been updated a fair bit in this iteration, the biggest part of which being the 
 new open-world style setup. You can now drive anywhere in the game world from the minute you get 
 behind the wheel, and there are so many different ways to go you won't know where to begin. The 
 way Criterion have set this up is nothing short of astounding. The game is designed to make you 
 automatically hit every jump in sight and drive so fast your eyes hurt, and around every corner 
 there seems to be a shortcut or ramp to launch your car off. The car handling is as good as ever, 
 and you can throw the cars around all over the place without spinning out or losing control. The 
 crash anywhere system is a welcome addition, and one that adds hours of fun just from smashing 
 up cars all over Paradise City.
  
  The graphics have had a nice overhaul from Revenge. You can really tell the difference when you 
 crash, as now your car can be crushed almost in half, and the amount of pieces that fly off has 
 been increased ten fold. the environments are sharp and well designed, and the car models are very 
 cool.
  
  The sound is good, with solid engine sounds and crash noises, plus feedback from the environment. 
 The soundtrack is pretty good, with classic songs from Janes Addiction, Soundgarden and Guns N 
 Roses, plus new stuff from Killswitch Engage and modern rock bands.
  
  All in all, this is a worthwhile addition to the Burnout series, and one that'll give hours of 
 fun to anyone who picks it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Burnout since #3 and have loved Burnout 3 and Burnout Revenge... I played the 
 demo for Paradise and was severly underwhelmed... but i was reassured by friends that the demo was 
 a bad representation of the game... and that is completely true. The graphics are completely outstanding.... the 
 crashes are so detailed and the physics are almost dead on. The setup of 3 different car styles 
 (Stunt, Aggressive and Speed) works well, mixing things up and adding different strategies. Road 
 Rage is better than ever.... although gets very easy when you unlock the heavier cars. the races 
 work very well, however learning to navigate through the open world takes some time to get a hang 
 of. Marked Man is very cool and the difficutly ramps up as you progress... challenging and fun. 
 
  .
  .
  The multiplayer is my fav part of the previous Burnout games... in Paradise, this is where things 
 have fallen short (for me anyhow) . The open concept online doesn't work as well, considering i 
 want to stay in contact or range of the other races... what fun is it if there's hardly any battles? 
 I find a lot of people take all different routes and it sort of kills the excitement for me. But 
 nonetheless, you can still get some fun out of the online... i guess i just enjoyed the older designs 
 for the online setup.
  .
  No offline multiplayer (split screen) really upsets me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airdom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Watch out, Burnout is back, and oh boy is it ever kicking ass!
  Burnout is back with the blazing speeds and the incredible crashes that you have come to love over 
 the years.
  
  this time around you have a choice of 75 different vehicles, ranging from super fast roadsters, 
 to super tough vans. Criterion added a little flavor this year though with the addition of the 
 different car types, the stunt, aggression, and speed classes. all three have distinct differences, 
 be it for boosting, toughness, or just plain crazy fast cars.
  
  The game has taken a differnt turn this time around. you can finally race in a free roaming environment, 
 and the city look amazing, not to mention it is also VERY big, which is a big plus. might i mention... no 
 loading times wherever you go in this expansive city? 
  
  Sometimes you are just driving around the city, and all of a sudden you have a car passing by you 
 at a crazy speed! speeding and trying to catch that punk car and take it down to then add it in 
 you car collection is awesome!
  
  The online aspects of this game are just jaw-dropping. its amazing how seemlessly the online play 
 is integrated it Burnout Paradise, just by pressing the d-pad you can go right into any game, and 
 it all happens in a few seconds. 
  
  The challenges that there are online are awesome, though you have some really simple ones, theres 
 always a few more challenging ones. with 50 challenges for every player combination, and Burnout 
 having a 8-player online capacity, that gives you 400 challenges to do, CRAZY!
  
  Xbox Live Vision Camera is very well integrated in here. You can take the picture for you Driving 
 permit, and you can flick other people off when they take you down online!
  
  i strongly recommend this game for everyone who wants to have a good time online and offline! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Well there is a lot of thing I can say about burnout paradise but one thing I cant say about this 
 game is sucks, this game is a Masterpiece.
  There is a lot of new thing, well the cities are new and the races are new and some more  
 dont remember right now but I'm sure it some cool staff)
  the gameplay is awesome the graphics are pretty good but I really hate the camera there but still 
 the game is so awesome..........:)
  
  The other burnout games where not good as this one maybe burnout R was good as this....: D but this 
 is still better.
  This game is all about racing and all about winning racing this game is perfect for people like 
 me that like racing games, totally fun game=burnout paradise:) .
  
  well I'm sure you will like this game even if you don't really like racing games, this game is perfect 
 for everyone........ awesome game......:) :) :) :) :) :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  For me, when it comes to arcade racers nothing compares to the Burnout series. Sure, I haven't 
 played all of them, but after playing B3 and BR, I don't see any point in going backwards in the 
 series. The way I see it, since the innovations and progressions are so enjoyable, why muddy it 
 with earlier games that might not have what I want?
  
  I mean seriously, would you really enjoy Halo over Halo 2 if you played Halo 2 first? Ok, I admit 
 that there are people out there that would. But with that being said, I have really enjoyed the 
 progression made in Burnout Paradise.
  
  Visually, the game is incredible to watch. Driving around feels just as arcadey as ever, but with 
 the added advantage of being able to slow down and appreciate the environment more without everything 
 being a blur. The crashes are great to watch too, but I found that after playing a while, I would 
 get frustrated with not being able to turn off watching all the crashes I was in. Especially since 
 you have to drive to certain points of the game to start events. Now this became frustrating because 
 I was use to the instant action of previous burnout games. In those games you would simply pick 
 the event and go. In BP you have to drive to the event to start it. Now lets say you failed the 
 event and want to do it again. Well, you will have to drive all the way back to the starting point.
 
  
  There are some added features that should help with this though and those are the road rule games 
 that you can turn on. The two different road rules are time and showtime. Time, requires you to 
 race from one end of a street to the other end in a certain amount of time. Showtime is the mutated 
 child of the beloved crash mode. To use showtime you just drive, hit the left and right buttons 
 and then start pressing A to bounce into cars. In its own way it is more satisfying, but not every 
 intersection is as fun to do this on. These features of course are nice but, if you have already 
 beaten the street your on, then its not as satisfying to have to do it again to get back to the 
 start of your race.
  
  Aside form these few complaints, this game is definitely the real deal and well worth the money.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Like many who are avid Burnout series fans, since its first days on the Playstation 2 to the superb 
 Burnout3 Takedown. I was very excited by this one. Burnout Paradise is the lattest installment 
 of the series and despite some goo online play, when all the dust is settled is overall a poor 
 installment in the series.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, there will be those that love it. But I'm pretty sure theres many Burnout 
 fans who will be seriously disapointed. The game just all feels to Need for Speedy and thats not 
 a good thing. The fact you have to drive to get to events seemed like a nice idea at first but 
 overall its a pain and destroys the experiences quickly. Burnout is all about enterting races straight 
 from the menu and having a blast. Not riving around pretty dull streets to get to an event.
  
  Graphics wise it looks good, especially crashes which are the best they have ever been. But 
 there are some poor looking areas to Paradise city and the races.... well some are downright poor. 
 I guess one of the skills in the game is knowing the right paths for the track but there is so 
 much stuff to get you confussed that its just not fun to race. Theres also hardly any takedown 
 action when compared to previous games. Don't get me wrong, Paradise isn't a bad game, its just 
 not a Burnout game. Classic Arcade Racing with unforgettable tracks. In fact thats my biggest issue 
 with this game, its just missing what fans love the most about the series. Audio wise it sounds 
 great with some top notch songs except one or two poor songs (listening to Avril Lavigne's Girlfriend 
 song isn't fun) . Thankfully you can skip the song which is a blessing.
  
  By far the best feature of Paradise is its online play, in fact it makes the single player look 
 terribly boring (which it can be) . Online the game is a lot of fun with anyone and you'll have 
 a blast.
  
  Like I said, Paradise is a ok game. But for a long time Burnout fan its a HUGE letdown thats missing 
 a lot of classic things. Things are missing in events and the new addictions are poor. If you want 
 a classic Burnout game stick with Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: il_moro
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  Sure it's Burnout... so that's built in fun there. But they really didn't think about what a pain 
 in the ass that mini-map in the lower right corner was going to be. Open map? Great idea... but 
 for races it deeply sucks that I gotta keep checking that mini-map. Ooops! I guess I'll hit a car 
 while I do that. Or I found the work-around: pause the action and then look at the map. That blows, 
 too, because it takes all the momentum away from the race. The frenzy of being in a race and not 
 being able to peel yuour eyes off the road was one of the funnest aspects of the Burnout series. 
 I"m sure there are those who will tell me that I have to play the game long enough and then I'll 
 learn the entire map and won't have to rely on the mini-map. My answer to that is, if I have to 
 play the game that long just to bring my level of enjoyment up to what I had with Burnout Takedown 
 and Burnout Revenge, then screw it... they've failed me. Also, if I race all the way out to the 
 Wind Farm and lose, I'd like to start the race over again and give it another try. Oh, if you want 
 to do that you gotta drive ALLLLLLLLLL the way back to the other side of town. I can't just use 
 the mini-map and click on that race to magically transport me to the start of the race. C'mon... it's 
 a game. Make it easy on me, not a pain in the ass.
  
  And the mechanics are just rude. Sure there's a lot of fun with the environment and the nifty cars. 
 But if I get stuck against a wall or on a corner or on some piece of something that is an obstacle, 
 getting OFF of it ain't easy at all. Ooops! There goes 10 seconds off your Burning Route time while 
 you try to manuever out of a corner that the new improved game mechanics have wedged you into. 
 Criterion could've made that a little easier... so as far as THOSE play mechanics go, I give them 
 a big fat "F".
  
  Like many longtime Burnout fans, I miss the Crash Mode... a lot! What gives, EA and Criterion? Why 
 oh why have you traded in the Crash Mode we loved so much for the really stupid concept of ..."Showtime"? 
 Endlessly flopping around an intersection like a fish out of water to rack up points hitting things 
 loses its appeal after 10 seconds. I've done this once and have no desire to do it again. Just... really 
 stupid, guys. The Crash Mode in Burnout Revenge had become too complicated, but this is far to 
 simple. Can't you just, I don't know... return Crash Mode to the way it was in Burnout 2: Point 
 of Impact? That way it was just fun, you know... the way it should be.
  
  The online feature is just beyond me. There are no real instructions on how to do anything. Maybe 
 I wasn't paying attention to DJ Annoying and he told me what to do at some point. But I shouldn't 
 be punished fgor misisng that opportunity. Give me some kind of Help feature so I can get comfortable. 
 This "exploring" thing should be fun, not frustrating. I accidentally (yes, accidentally) started 
 an online "Freeburn" and had no idea what was going on. But all of the sudden some guy named Kizer 
 Souze420 started Road Raging me to death. At one point I was "10 Takedowns Behind" and had already 
 lost interest. How do I quit the game? I don't have a mic and can't tell Kizer he's won and congratulations. 
 I mashed every button on my controller and couldn't find a way to end the online game. So I just 
 shut down my console. Now, I shouldn't have to do that. It's ridiculous. There should always be 
 a "panic button" or something that will bring up some kind of a HUD to help me with the most basic 
 things like... well, exiting a game.
  
  Lastly, a feature I've really wished for is something that Rallisport Challenge 2 did very well: 
 saving and playing back a race or event. What a concept! After experiecing a very Road Rage or 
 a narrow victory in a race, why not celebrate by saving it and showing it to your buddies or your 
 wife later on. Incidentally she's PISSED at Criterion for eliminating the split screen so we can 
 play the game together. Another stupid decision.
  
  I think thus far I've logged about 30 hours playing the game. I may log another 10 hours so I guess 
 some would say I got my money's worth, but the re-playability is for crap. If the Burnout series 
 is going this route I'll probably look for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbu85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  when I got this game I thought wow look at the chaos that I'm causing. Ten minutes later I wanted 
 to put down the candy and go get a meal with more substinance. I'm not saying that this is a bad 
 game, just not one with much meat on it's bones to keep you intrested in it for a long period of 
 time. 
  
  There are a few qwerks that need to be fixed to make the game enjoyable for longer than an hour 
 or two. One is the the random power of the trafic. I was able to plow through three vans and a 
 work truck but when I hit a car that looked like a GEO metro my car was destroyed, and I wasn't 
 even moving at a high speed. Second is the lighting anomalies that a rampid through out the town, 
 when your in a tunnel and its so bright that you can't even see a turn you know that there is some 
 thing wrong. And last the AI range need to be set to one path. I was in a race where I got blown 
 out of the water by a car that was worse than mine but when I tried it again the AI decided to 
 ride the short bus and let me smoke them. 
  
  If you can look past its bare bones mechanics and its technical problems and have a severe case 
 of A D D then you will probably enjoy this but for the other race fans enjoy taking out some noobs 
 in Forza 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say an open world lush looking total carnage i love this game. the only things 
 that are need are extra events. and maybe the whole gaming world could have been bigger. but all 
 in all i'm very impressed by it. if your after something that lets u crash and burn then look no 
 further this is your baby. if your looking for more of a simulation racer then i'd recommend forza 
 2. i also think that the exploration side of it is good tryin to find all the jump the smashes 
 and also tryin to remember how to do the stunt runs also adds longetivity to the which i'm also 
 pleased at as it is not a short game which is well worth it if u compare it to call of duty 4 roughly 
 4 hours gameplay excludin the multiplayer. i know i'll prob get shot for sayin that but i'm sick 
 of short games but i've not played call of duty 4 i'm goin by the reviews i've read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anubisreign
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I mean really.... cmon.... this is just a fun a*s game man.... no dout! Along with a great soudtrack 
 to drive to.. I will enjoy this till the end.. To be honest.. I'm one of the few for this to actually 
 to be my FIRST Burnout. All my friends have always talked it up but I wasn't down. Then this past 
 SuperBowl weekend.. YEAYUH GIANTS!! (I live in Manhattan) ... We had just put the finishing touches 
 on my friends new PLASMAHD setup with the sick surround sound and all that.. and we put on the xbox... first 
 in was Burnout Paradise... all I know is, few hours and many beers later, I'm like... Im Sooooooo 
 getting this game!! haha! Needless to say, I'm home and I have my own copy sitting riiiiiight next 
 to me... Burnout Paradise will be on my tv shortly!
  
  And another thing, ONLY reason why i have to mark down there.. ten hours played, is cause I just 
 got my own copy!!
  
  
  www. evilfux. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameboy2k
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I am still playing both games (Burnout Paradise and Burnout Revenge) I love this game for the openworld 
 format... however.... EA has lost the most spectactular part of the Burnout game.... Crash competitions. 
 One buddy described the previous game (Burnout REvenge) as a game built around a chat room. The 
 people on the previous installment were very cool and mature. Crash games was intense, but still 
 casual. The new game is cool, but they took out a key ingredient in the success of Burnout Revenge. 
 If it isnt broke, just add to it... dont reinvent the wheel.
  
  But, as we know, whenever we love something, the vendor always changes it. So, I will be forced 
 to love this game..... But.... I dont have to like it, do I? I'm a crashhead addict.... I'm sure 
 I'm not by myself. But, hey.... lets have fun with this game. It is pretty. The special effects 
 with the extreme crashes are cool.. And, the lobby waiting is gone... meaning we can just jump 
 into the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  When EA and Criterion Games first announced Burnout Paradise early last year, the reception was 
 mixed to fans of previous games. Some would say that the developers sold out with the decision 
 of Burnout going on an open-world approach while others welcome change. The message that Criterion 
 wanted to send with Paradise is that it is an seamless experience from top to bottom with no load 
 times and menus to access. Did Criterion fulfill their message after a year wait? The answer is 
 yes and Burnout Paradise takes the franchise to the next level especially in the online aspect 
 that establishes a new standard that hopefully other games would have. While this new approach 
 resulted in some flaws that prevent it from perfection, Burnout fans should not pass this opportunity 
 to witness the new evolution of this franchise.
  
  Every time you boot up Burnout Paradise, you will hear Guns & Roses infamous song, Paradise City, 
 and it definitely sets up the tone for the rest of the game. Driving around in Paradise City for 
 the first time feels like you're just thrown in there and go nuts, but you are slowly guided by 
 DJ Atomica, who returns to another EA game since SSX 3, and he will periodically help you out if 
 you are not winning events. For seasoned Burnout fans, the core gameplay remains the same and minor 
 changes were made to match the intensity of driving really fast within these city streets. Especially 
 for fans of the last game, Revenge, traffic checking is basically gone as a major offense towards 
 taking out the opposition while racing, but it is still in there if you're going slow. Signature 
 takedowns are also out in exchange for new reasons to explore every detail of Paradise City.
  
  Since Burnout has gone open world, the structured event system and circuit-based tracks are 
 gone, and nearly every intersection is an event ranging from races, road rage, stunt runs, and 
 marked man events. Stunt run is basically is a time limit event where you try to gather points 
 from long combos of boosting, jumping, flat spins, barrel rolls, and breaking billboards. This 
 mode is pretty much a test of memorization of shortcuts and billboard locations in deciding which 
 route to do. Marked man also makes its debut in Paradise where it is basically a point-to-point 
 run to finish surviving against black sedans with max strength ratings. Road rage is back again, 
 but this time the whole city is the stage taking out car after car. Races are basically point-to-point 
 to certain locations throughout the city (limited amount of finish lines) . All these different 
 events take advantage of the core gameplay of Burnout and they are fun to do. With the open city 
 of Paradise at your disposal, one wrong turn will often lead to defeat as well as numerous crashes. 
 Burnout routes are basically hot laps from previous games where specific cars are required to play 
 these events. The opposing A. I. can be aggressive at times, but they tend to be conservative on 
 the racing side as they will often crash to traffic giving players a chance to catch up if they 
 are behind.
  
  Burnout Paradise's major flaw to many fans is the no retry option. In the first half of the game, 
 this is not that much of a flaw considering there is an event at nearly intersection. If you fail 
 an event, there is probably another one just a second away. No restarts eventually become a flaw 
 for those completionist types that want the Elite license, which is the primary goal of Paradise, 
 as failing them and you to have to drive back there to try again. This alone makes the game frustrating 
 at times and other ways of frustration is usually in stunt run, where one crash ends a combo.
 
  
  The stars of Burnout Paradise are still the cars and there are fast ones out there. Depending on 
 the crash, you can still drive away from it if it is not that bad other than wrecking. New to Paradise 
 is a class system of cars where cars are assigned to aggression, stunt, or speed. Each class has 
 its advantages and disadvantages. Aggression cars have the strength, but not the speed. Stunt cars 
 are basically the middle class of the three as they can be aggressive with good speed and boost 
 stats. Speed cars are unique from the other cars since the boost bar cannot be used till it is 
 full and once the boost is all used up in one stretch, it starts a Burnout chain as seen in Burnout 
 1, 2, and Dominator. Continuous boosting equals more burnouts, but these cars are the lightest 
 of the bunch and they tend to get lit by opposing cars quickly. Each type of event caters to these 
 classes of cars as aggressive cars for road rages and marked man, stunt runs for stunt cars, and 
 races for speed cars. It definitely gives Paradise some sense of strategy and balance and you can 
 not just rely on one car to beat everything.
  
  Other than the events, Burnout Paradise's single-player offers more ways to explore Paradise City. 
 Scattered throughout the city are smashes that usually access shortcuts and hidden spots, billboards 
 to break when jumping, and specific super jumps to fly through. Each street at Paradise City has 
 its own road rule, not to be confused with that MTV show. Road rules are basically times that can 
 be beaten once someone races at the beginning of the street to the end. In addition to road rule 
 times, Showtime is another part of road rules, which is Paradise's version of crash mode. Showtime 
 feels like you are creating your own multi-car accident by crashing with other cars for points 
 and using the boost bar to magically move your car. Hitting buses in showtime increases the multiplier 
 for more points. While showtime is not as good as the puzzle aspect of crash mode, it is a decent 
 substitute. The single-player for Burnout Paradise can be beaten in about 20 hours, but it could 
 take more than 30 hours for 100% Paradise CIty is just filled with so many things to do and it 
 is simply fun doing everything it offers.
  
  Other than single-player, the multiplayer for Burnout Paradise is truly something else. Accessing 
 online is as simple as pressing the d-pad and you could be in a match in a matter of seconds. The 
 online multiplayer alone offers a new set of challenges that can be done pending on how many players 
 are in a room. These freeburn challenges are mostly easy and some offers teamwork. Doing these 
 challenges with random people can often lead to miscommunication and often result in dropped players, 
 so it is best to do them with friends. Other than freeburn challenges, races are basically the 
 primary option for serious competition. Having no stunt run, team road rage from Revenge, and even 
 team Marked Man makes the competitive online feel limited, so hopefully they would be added as 
 future downloadable content later down the road. If you just want to go crazy in Paradise City, 
 you can try to set records within the room so other players can try to beat such as oncoming, air, 
 drift, etc. Despite no splitscreen multiplayer and who wants that anyway, the online for Burnout 
 Paradise is something truly original and hopefully other games can learn from it.
  
  Burnout Paradise is also arguably the best retail game to use the Xbox Live Vision or Playstation 
 Eye camera at its full potential. Every time you win an event, you can take a picture of a winning 
 pose for victory. For online, a picture is taken every time you win an event or get taken out for 
 a mugshot. If you ever thought these cameras feel useless in actual games, Burnout Paradise makes 
 them feel viable again and hopefully influences developers to use them at their full potential.
 
  
  The graphics for Burnout Paradise offer the best for the arcade racing genre so far this generation. 
 Paradise City as a whole looks so diverse and clean giving it a soul. The cars themselves look 
 great when they are perfect or banged up. When you crash, the car sometimes slowly deforms, which 
 is also a cool effect. The crashes as a whole just feel more insane than ever as they flip more 
 and more. The filtering effects that tell the status of your car whether it is messed up or not 
 are also amazing without some sense of a health bar. While it is not the best looking game on the 
 360 and PS3, the graphics fit Burnout's style and that is good enough for anyone looking for a 
 good time.
  
  The sounds of Paradise City can be a mixed bag. The sound effects cater with Burnout's style of 
 the sense of speed as crashes sound like crashes and mean ones at best. Cars sound like cars and 
 that's basically it for sound. DJ Atomica can be annoying at times, but he can be tolerable. The 
 music on the other hand is where the mixed bag comes in. For most EA games, the licensed soundtracks 
 are mostly hit and miss, which is true for Burnout Paradise. You can find your favorites here and 
 there such as N. E. R. D's Rock Star remix or Faith No More's Epic, then there is your misses like 
 Avril Lavigne's Girlfriend. Almost half of the soundtrack is recycled from Dominator and there 
 are also original tunes from the first three Burnout games, but most of them are also misses. Luckily 
 for the 360 version, custom soundtracks are in to bust out with your own tunes.
  
  Burnout Paradise was Criterion's chance to innovate the racing genre again and they have succeeded. 
 While some would still want the core structured-like gameplay to come back, the core gameplay is 
 still as good and fun as it was. It still provides the best sense of speed within the genre as 
 previous games have offered as well as bringing back the intensity that Burnout 3 established with 
 the elimination of traffic checking being overpowered. The online aspect is among the best multiplayer 
 experiences now in this generation and everything is done with no menus and load times. While slightly 
 flawed, Burnout Paradise is a technical achievement for this generation of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  By building on the true strengths of the series and incorporating a completely open-world game 
 environment, Burnout Paradise brings new life into a franchise that may have become a bit stale 
 otherwise. 
  
  Not so much a driving game as it is a high-speed crashing simulator; Burnout takes the most entertaining 
 parts of automotive sporting events and centers an entire game on them. Whether it is on a racetrack 
 or a suburban street, when we do see a car wreck in real life most of us simply cannot look away 
 from it; Burnout takes this phenomenon and runs with it, creating one of the most enjoyable games 
 in recent memory.
  
  For starters it has to be pointed out that this game is just amazingly fast. In fact, it is a little 
 too fast for its own good, but that is a large part of the game's charm. Put simply, no human being 
 could navigate a city street at this rate of speed for very long, and fortunately you are not really 
 punished for the inability to do it here. While the previous installments in the franchise did 
 move at a good pace, now you simply feel like you have been strapped onto a rocket. The road just 
 screams towards you and due to the insanely congested streets alive with activity, you generally 
 won't make it very far before you slam headfirst into something devastating your vehicle in the 
 process. 
  
  Of course, this game is intended to be a total crash-fest, so slamming into a brick wall in the 
 middle of a race will generally not mean that you have lost the event. In most cases unless it 
 is the last legs of the race, you are free to crash multiple times without necessarily coming up 
 in last place; this is both a blessing and a curse in my opinion. In one respect, the rubber-band 
 physics at play here give you the freedom to drive at insane speeds attempting every crazy thing 
 you can think of without fear of losing the race. Want to see where that weird looking path goes 
 or try to cut through those oncoming city buses? Go for it; worst case scenario you'll disintegrate 
 your car and be right back where you were in a matter of seconds. On top of there being little 
 risk of failure, you are also free to actually enjoy the view of your car flipping through the 
 air at 100mph raining debris down on the road below without frustration. Once and a while I'll 
 curse at the game when I slam into something, but generally I'm grinning like an idiot at the view 
 of my car collapsing like a sheet of tinfoil.
  
  On the flip side of things is the somewhat sobering notion that no matter how well you do in a 
 race or how many opponents you send barreling off a bridge into certain death below, they will 
 always be right on your tailpipe as the finish line approaches. While I wouldn't change the game 
 a bit and I do enjoy the freeform nature that the races have, there has definitely been a time 
 or two where I wondered why I should bother pushing my opponent into the guard rail when I know 
 he'll recover so quickly regardless. 
  
  The most enjoyable parts of the previous games to me have always been the Road Rage events and 
 little has changed in that respect. These segments boil the game down to its most basic and enjoyable 
 elements from my perspective, trying to keep your car in one piece while beating the holy heck 
 out of every other person on the road. While Road Rage events are still a big part of Burnout, 
 it sometimes feels like some of the other modes are just a lamer version of them. The standard 
 race events for example are a very similar experience only without the crash counter. Obviously 
 in the race events you are intended to be focused more on beating the other cars to a certain point 
 then racking up as many destroyed cars as you can, but in practice it ends up being a very similar 
 experience. When you couple the aforementioned fact that such blatant rubber band physics are at 
 play in the race events with the notion that you won't get as many kills in the road rage going 
 slow as you will boosting you quickly discover that both events boil down to essentially the same 
 thing; go as fast as you can taking as many opponents down as you can along the way. Granted, you 
 could probably win a race event without checking a single opponent, but since it fills up your 
 boost meter to do so it is generally in your best interest to kick the crap out of everyone on 
 the road. Besides, if you wanted a straight race you'd be playing Forza, Burnout is all about the 
 carnage.
  
  In contrast to the Road Rage, another event has been introduced this year as well, aptly titled 
 "Marked Man". In these events you are given nothing but a destination point and instructions to 
 make it there in one piece. An army of black Lamborghinis is hell-bent on stopping you, and while 
 you are free to trade blows with them along the way, their numbers are infinite and they will follow 
 you anywhere you try to run. These events are fun albeit a bit frustrating at times, with my only 
 real complaint being that it would have mixed it up a bit if they had given them a few different 
 cars to work with. While it looks cool and all to see a pack of Lamborghinis bearing down on you, 
 it would have been a bit more exciting to see maybe an SUV or something slam into me now and then 
 instead. It seems especially odd when you are in a big heavy car that their choice of vehicular 
 weapon remains the same as you would think they would just bounce off, but I suppose reality has 
 already been suspended long before we got to this point.
  
  The game changing to an open-world setting seems a bit overwhelming at first, and while it has 
 its share of issues (like having to drive for several minutes to get back to certain points to 
 say, change cars) , it is implemented amazingly well and is a welcome addition to the gameplay. 
 There is plenty of world-exploring fun to be had here with tons of bonus modes and side-quests 
 like billboard smashing, super jumping, high-speed parallel parking and barrier breaking. On top 
 of the freeform exploring you can do through the streets and buildings there are also the impromptu 
 Showtime modes that you can enter into at any point of the game, including right in the middle 
 of a race. The Showtime mode has replaced crash mode from the previous game, and while it is a 
 total blast and an awesome thing to behold, it is not at all a substitute for the crash mode we 
 have all come to know and love. When the crash mode was so lauded by both critics and players alike 
 it baffles the mind as to why the developers would choose not to include it here, but the game 
 does succeed in spite of its absence. Rather then setting up a single car crash and watching the 
 hi-jinks ensue as in previous games, you are now free to leapfrog your wreck around the street 
 slamming into as many cars as you can in the process. While it is a much more interactive mode 
 then the crash event, it seems a bit silly and the aftermath does not seem quite as rewarding. 
 In Crash events you got to see each crash in full glory and then got that brilliant flyover of 
 the carnage, in Showtime mode you are actively participating in the event leaving you little time 
 to enjoy the scene, and as you fly in the direction you are facing you must constantly spin the 
 camera in the opposite direction of the crash to keep yourself propelling forward. These limitations 
 in mind however, it is still a lot of fun to do, and can be a real catharsis to enter into when 
 you are in the tail end of a losing race and no you don't have a prayer of catching up. 
  
  You are also given the ability to "own" each road by entering into a time trial type race at your 
 discretion, but I honestly have spent next to no time involving myself in any of those events. 
 The real meat of this game is in the carnage, not the racing, and "owning" a road just does not 
 hold the same luster as destroying a dozen opponents' cars at high speeds.
  
  The last event available is the stunt race. These events can be fun, but tend to be somewhat of 
 an exercise in frustration and repetition. You must achieve a certain score on each road based 
 on what tricks you perform within the time allotted to emerge successful. It seems fun enough until 
 you reach the higher levels of the game where you are forced to keep your multiplier alive for 
 extended periods of time to beat the set total. To keep the multiplier going you are forced to 
 constantly find new things to jump off of or break through. At times it can be fun and rewarding 
 experience filled with an endless chain of crazy jumps and tricks; other times you will find yourself 
 on a barren desert road with nothing to jump off of and not a single billboard to smash through. 
 In these situations you are forced to keep throwing your car into reverse 180s and senseless boosts 
 in a vain attempt to keep the multiplier alive long enough to find a new ramp.
  
  The true beauty of the open-world gameplay is that you generally don't need to involve yourself 
 in events that you cannot win nor have any interest in. Want to play just Road Rage events? You 
 can probably advance to the next license (the games leveling system) by just searching around for 
 those particular events and avoid the stunt races altogether. Tired of doing the events in general? 
 You could spend endless hours just driving around fulfilling side quests and bonus missions, apart 
 from the mere fact that it is simply a pleasure to drive through the city as it is. There is so 
 much to see and do that I often find myself just driving around for fun, which is a sure sign of 
 an excellent game. While on the subject of looking around, there certainly is a lot to look at 
 here. This is one of the most detailed environments every pressed to a disk, and you will wonder 
 at the spectacle that is Paradise City. Literally every minor detail that could have been placed 
 here was, from parking meters to stop signs, right down to those little collision barrels they 
 place on the freeways to keep you from smacking into the concrete. The graphics are beautiful and 
 while not the single most stunning thing I have ever seen there is absolutely nothing to complain 
 about visually, including the frame rate which moves along without a hitch here. You will see a 
 jaggy now and then, and the cars themselves don't have quite the "wow" factor that some other titles 
 do, but the city is varied and beautiful, there are some fantastic lighting effects and textures, 
 and the crashes are just amazing to behold. Cars crumple and crush, windows explode into millions 
 of shards of glass, wheels fly through the air, and huge sections of the vehicles are ripped off 
 and sent spinning through the air. As many times as you see a crash (and you will see a lot) , it 
 never gets tired and is always a treat to behold.
  
  On the audio front the game excels as well, offering exceptional sound effects and amazing ambient 
 noises. You'll hear all manner of horns honking tired squealing and metal crumpling. On top of 
 absolutely top-notch audio effects the game features a pretty robust soundtrack as well, employed 
 through a fully customizable in-game music player. I have seen some reviewers complain about the 
 music chosen, and obviously it is a very subjective thing, but I personally love the soundtrack 
 here. On board are some of my favorite artists of all time including Twisted Sister, Depeche Mode, 
 Faith No More, Alice in Chains, SoundGarden and many others. Granted, I could do without the Avril 
 Lavigne track, but that's why the track list is customizable.
  
  Of course, like any other, this game is not completely perfect; as every other reviewer has mentioned, 
 the glaring inability to restart or redo a failed race is an odd choice considering you often have 
 to drive several minutes across the map to get back to the starting line, and while the sheer variety 
 and options available have kept it from generally bothering me there have been times when I would 
 have liked to have tried a certain event again only to not really know where the heck I was when 
 it started to begin with.
  
  I have seen a lot of complaints about the world map and the lack of any real-time showing of the 
 direction you should be traveling in, but apart from one specific race that ends up in a squirrely 
 section of the mountains with all kinds of branching roads in and out of it, I have really never 
 been totally lost as to where they wanted me to go. On top of that, the rubber-band type physics 
 at work in the races are so forgiving that unless you are nearing the end of the line you usually 
 have plenty of time to find an alternate route or to just plain turn around and go back if need 
 be.
  
  Outside of that a few minor details bother me. For one thing, a lot of things seem to take a lot 
 more time then they need to in my opinion. For example, there is this extremely drawn out process 
 of entering the junkyard where you must watch the little animated camera dolly of the yard's sign, 
 followed by this painfully slow cinematic dropping of any cars you've unlocked into the field of 
 view. The car slams down from the sky very dramatically, and you are forced to sit there for several 
 seconds while the game scrolls text across the bottom of the screen describing the car. The lack 
 of a way to bypass these screens seems particularly odd in a game so centered on quick action. 
 The car selection within the junkyard is also a very slow process, where each car is selected several 
 seconds before it is loaded and you then sit and wait for it to fall out of the sky before you 
 can even see a visual representation of it.
  
  Car selection too seems somewhat ambiguous as regardless of what car you select, your opponents 
 always seem to be faster then you; at least, when the race starts they will all eat you up off 
 the line. This too makes the rubber-banding seem all that more odd since these same cars that accelerated 
 so much faster then you can be caught up to from so far behind with ease.
  
  The majority of these complaints can be overlooked however as they do not really impede the gameplay 
 in any way. My absolutely biggest complaint on the other hand can not be overcome. They have completely 
 removed all local multiplayer from the game entirely. Now I realize split screens are going the 
 way of the dodo, and that this is a rant for an entirely different platform then a game review, 
 but as two-player Road Rash was the single only driving game my wife would compete with me in outside 
 of Mario Kart, this is a very upsetting omission. I may well be in the minority as I do not play 
 online games very often, but there is certainly something to be said for looking over at the person 
 you just forced into a guardrail and gloating. I realize there is a built in mode here for achieving 
 the same results with the Xbox Live vision camera, but it is no replacement for local play in my 
 opinion.
  
  With that said, Burnout Paradise is an absolutely fantastic game that I would encourage anyone 
 to purchase immediately. Not since I first played GTA3 did I spend this much time smiling, giggling 
 or wincing as I did playing this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: straightthug7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is essentially what a next-generation racing game should be: open-ended and large. 
 However, this game could have incorporated a greater level of interaction which would allow you 
 to destruct the environment and not be confined within the roads guardrails. This would enhance 
 the experience and make this one of the best next-gen games. The events in this game are interesting 
 and offer very different experiences particularly the new Showtime feature, which allows you to 
 flip your car with your boost to hit as much oncoming traffic as possible. If you have played a 
 Burnout game before the only real new thing will be the open ended map and the very detailed graphics. 
 Overall I would recommend this game to any fans of the series, GTA-like games or racing games in 
 general. Solid.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  The original Burnout was a game focussed on fast, furious racing and really shook-up the racing 
 genre. Over time though the series became bogged-down in creating over-the-top crash animations 
 and the core racing experience suffered as a result. With Burnout Paradise, developer Criterion, 
 has opened up the game-world, allowing players to explore all of their wildest twisted-metal dreams.
 
  
  Take me down to the Paradise City:
  
  Paradise City is a vast concrete playground. At first it can seem daunting when you see the size 
 of the map but getting around soon becomes second nature. Every intersection on the map is a start 
 point for a challenge so you're never short of things to do. On top of this there's also billboards 
 to smash and short-cuts to find, encouraging the exploration of this huge space.
  
  Although Paradise is very large, it's nothing like as big as the environment in the game it has 
 been most compared to, Test Drive Unlimited. However, even if it is only around a third of the 
 size of TDU's game-world, it's packed more densely with challenges and traffic.
  
  Graphics and sound (8.5) :
  
  Burnout Paradise is a visual treat on the Xbox 360. Running in 
 1080p the cars and surroundings look fantastic and the draw distance is spectacular. The crashes 
 are also much more realistic than in those in other recent Burnout titles.
  
  The drawback with the graphics is that if you're not playing in HD some important HUD details can 
 be difficult to see. In particular, the mini-map can be very difficult to read on a standard-def 
 television, making finding the best routes for races much harder than it should be.
  
  In terms of the audio, Paradise is a very satisfying experience. Metal crunches and engines rev 
 in a very realistic fashion. The music choices are very questionable though. Some songs are great 
 choices, most obviously "Paradise City" by Guns N' Roses. But Avril Lavigne? What's that about?!
 
  
  Gameplay (8.5)
  
  For the first time in a long time for this series, the races form the core of the challenge in 
 Burnout Paradise. This is an incredibly welcome return and its been pulled off brilliantly. This 
 time around you're given a start point and finish point and its up to you to work out how to get 
 from A to B as fast as you can, using whatever route you choose through the city. At first this 
 can be very confusing but once you've got the hang of it, its tremendously satisfying.
  
  Other events include Road Rage - where you have to reach a certain number of takedowns in a time-limit, 
 and Marked Man - where you have to survive from A to B while all your opponents try to take you 
 down. There's also Stunt Run where you have to chain together flips, spins and drifts to set new 
 high scores. All of the events are loads of fun, but can become frustrating due to the lack of 
 a restart option. That said, if you fail an event there's always plenty of intersections nearby 
 where you can attempt something else.
  
  On top of all this, there are Road Rule events which have you "owning" each road in the city. To 
 own a road you must first set a time record on it and also complete a Showtime event on the road. 
 Showtime is basically an over-the-top replacement for Crash Mode and I have to say, its totally 
 pointless. You press A repeatedly to bounce you car down the road into other vehicles. It takes 
 away whatever tiny skill element was in crash mode in the first place.
  
  Online multiplayer (9.5) :
  
  By far and away the best element of Burnout Paradise is the online 
 functionality. Up to 8 players can cruise around Paradise together in what's called Online Freeburn. 
 Inviting people is as simple as pressing right on the d-pad. No menus and lobbies to mess about 
 with, everyone can just jump straight in. Occasionally though the servers seem to struggle (as 
 with most EA published games) and the game can freeze on the "connecting" screen. This happened 
 frequently in the demo build, but has still not been totally rectified.
  
  After jumping in you can cruise around however you wish, or engage in two main different types 
 of events. The first is simply point-to-point racing but the second is much more entertaining. 
 The host can activate Freeburn Challenges. There are hundreds of these which vary depending on 
 the number of players and they have great variety. They're almost like Tony Hawk style mini-events, 
 only you're in car, not on a skateboard. They can be as simple as boosting a certain distance, 
 but can get as complicated as performing synchronised jumps and stunts with other drivers. This 
 aspect of the game alone, can provide hours and hours of fun.
  
  Overall (9.0) :
  
  Burnout Paradise is a superb game and a return to form for a series that looked as if it was running 
 out of ideas. It maintains all of the spectacular speed and action the franchise is known for, 
 while providing a huge new setting to explore with an almost never-ending number of challenges. 
 On top of everything else you get one of the best online experiences yet provided on the next-gen 
 systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I've never played Burnout before. I thought I was more of a PGR & Forza kind of person but this 
 has completely changed my mind.
  
  *Visuals: The graphics in Burnout are one of the best I've seen on the 360. Crashing is ace slowing 
 it down so you can see the absolute carnage you've caused. 
  
  *Gameplay With 250 miles of open road it willl take a while before you know Paradise City like 
 the back of your hand. With the mountain range to the west and the actual city to the east. You'll 
 never get bored of your surroundings. You'll be forever looking for that perfect jump to land that 
 perfect two barrel jump. The open of the city is why I compare it to GTA. You can go pracically 
 anyway. Theres also plenty of Types of events. Road rage is when you have to get a certain amount 
 of takedown (wrecking your opponents car) . Race is self explanitory. Marked man is when you have 
 to get to a certain place when psychos try to wreck your car. Stunt run is the hardest to newcomers 
 because you really need to know where you can go to nail those points. The main plot of the game 
 is to get your Elite licence  upgrading by winning races. 
  
  *LIVE They have really upped it when it come to online you can seamlessly interact online with 
 single just a quick tap on right on the d pad bring up a LIVE menu. Even just freeburning around 
 the city with your mates is a top laugh. It also come very close to making me buy one of those 
 LIVE vision cameras. The mugshots are so funny. The host of the freeburning can set challenges 
 for everyone in the game. Obviously you can race with people on LIVE. But believe me if some on 
 etakes you out you'll care about more taking them out than winning the race. EA have made online 
 an amazing experience with FIFA coming up trumps online.
  
  *Sound The music in any EA game in top. The Paradise City Theme tune by Guns N Roses is ace.
 
  
  It may not have many competitors to this genre but it easily the best free driving game on 360. 
 If your after something to have a top laugh and just pracically do anything you want. Join Paradise 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignore78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  this game has FREEDOM, SPEED, CHALLENGE, tons of CARS.
  
  ive played the other burnout games, but there was nothing that interested me. and i dont liked 
 the graphics. 
  
  burnout paradise nailed it. they remade the game and mixed GTA with this.
  
  you drive around 
 the city , doing whatever you want. crash cars all day long.. or do challenging racing against 
 others. computers or go online and challenge real humans... like your self..
  
  if you fail a race , you dont have to do it again, just go to another and try that. it never gets 
 boring.. 
  
  you want to play this game over and over and over again , to unlock all cars , and do everything 
 that can be done. and thats a lot!!
  
  
  the graphics are the best. i smile everytime i look at my nice car, driving around the city. its 
 almost as you own the car for real..
  
  this is a must buy!
  
  
  the only negative i can think of is, when i crash, it is always slow motion. even if you dont die 
 crashing. its irritating when you drive a race , and bump into someone, and its slow mov, and and 
 you can drive away again, you lose som focus , but its nothing serious..
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  Reviw summary 
  + Fun for first few hours 
  + Marked man & road rage are brilliant 
  + The thrill of racing is still there, but very well hidden. 
  + Absolutely tonnes to do 
  
 
  - Infuriating 
  - Grey 
  - Dull, tedious & repetative 
  - More a memory test than of skill or reactions 
  - Lonely races 
  - No offline multiplayer 
 
  
  Sorry for the long review (hence the summary) but I feel its necasary to get my dissapointment 
 & frustration out. 
  
  You all should know the deal about Burnout by now & you should know that its been changed dramaticaly 
 from the previous, structured Burnouts into a open world game. 
  
  At first its brilliant, it really is. For my first couple of hours I was driving around really 
 enjoying myself, jumping around smashing through gates & billboards, driving fast & doing some 
 great crashes. 
  
  Then it all goes downhill very quickly. Through the beginning licences, races are practicaly impossible 
 to lose. You can (& will) spend a huge amount of time going in the wrong direction & still actualy 
 win a race. Wheres the sense of achievement or satisfaction from winning in that? There is none. 
 
  
  Then you reach the Burnout Licence. Suddenly the difficulty is ramped right up & all the problems 
 start showing themselves. The biggest problem is that you cant instant restart races. You have 
 to drive all the way back to the start line. Not a problem some say as another race is only around 
 a corner but this is only true early on & the mountain area to the west is short on race loactions 
 & is the furthest distance to the event filled city area. You begin dredding the races that lead 
 you into the mountains which is a shame because at first it was my favourite area. Now I hate it. 
 ts just a poor design choice no matter how you look at it. Especialy seeing as though every car 
 has a burning route which have to be restarted if you loose to win the improved version of the 
 car your driving. Also as you progress you run out of races so you must do this eventualy & when 
 you keep almost winning a race to get robbed at the last second, having to drive all the way back 
 is extremely annoying. Especialy as the traffic gets increased when cruising so youll spend a lot 
 of time driving back & crashing. Each crash increasing your anger as you just try to get to the 
 start line as quick as possible. 
  
  It also doesnt help that unless you know the city inside & out - no easy feat when its this packed 
 with off roads & hundreds of side streets. None of which are blocked off so you dont accidentaly 
 go down the wrong ones - its basicaly luck if you win or not. The game has a compass that tells 
 you which direction to head in & your indicators & signs at the top of the screen flash when A 
 turn comes up that you need to take. The problem is these normaly come on too late & you past the 
 turn before it even starts. But even if it does come on early enough with this being a city rather 
 than a race track, its full of 90 degree turns that are impossible to see past the scenery until 
 its too late or are actualy nigh on impossible too take without slowing down a great deal. 
  
  The next in incredibly annoying feature is the 'shortcuts'. Again unless you memorise the city 
 its highly recommended you stay on the road & never take a shortcut. The reason being that 90% 
 of these so called shortcuts trap you & send you completely in the wrong direction. So you end 
 up loosing the race through no fauilt of your own. The whole game feels more like a test of memory 
 than skill or reactions. Not once did I feel great satisfaction from winning a race as it just 
 seems so random if you win or not. Sometimes its incredibly easy & the next time its incredibly 
 hard. I also never enjoyed a race. 
  
  The city itself, although brilliant at first, also gets very dull & repetative. You'll grow very 
 tired of the greyness of it all after a while. All teh races finish at one of 8 locations so eventualy 
 it feels like your just redoing the same races over & over again. Theres no more exotic locations 
 to unlock, no more 'that track was great, I want to do it again' its all just one great big grey 
 city. Very depressing. 
  
  With the open city you also end up getting seperated from the pack & spend most the race by yourself. 
 A farcry from the brilliant, tight races of old where every second is a edge of you seat battle 
 with the other cars. If it wasnt for your position number youd have no idea other cars were involved 
 at all. 
  
  Then theres the new tacked on stunt races. These are such an afterthought its insulting. You get 
 points for jumps, billbourd smashes & barrel rolls off ramps. The later licences require you to 
 spend the whole run boosting, never crashing & memorising (again) all the jump & billboard locations 
 to get stupidly high scores. It just feels tedious & is incredibly dull & frustrating. 
  
  Another loss is the Crash events. Fanastic puzzle style score attack levels have now been replaced 
 by 'showtime' which can send your car into a crash & you bounce along the road using your boost. 
 Its fun but is nowhere near as brilliant as crash mode. Also the cars disappear when wrecked so 
 you cant sit back & admire a great site of broken cars. 
  
  The crashes themselves are also toned down. They are more realistic but have lost some of their 
 flare & madness. Id prefer the massive spark & air focused crashes of old to these new roll along 
 the ground with black bits flying off crashes anyday. 
  
  
  My last complaint is also one of the biggest. The multiplayer aspect is dropped altogether for 
 online only. Want to race a mate or challenge the to crash scores after youve been to pub? You 
 better send them home to get online them as you cant race someone in the same room anymore due 
 to it being too difficult to do in the open city environment. I find it ridiculous that its easier 
 to play mutliplayer against people 5 hour plane rides away then it is to play someone sat next 
 to you in the same room. Its laughable. 
  
  After all that negativity I guess I should point out its plus points. 
  
  The new 'marked man' 
 event is great fun. You have up to 4 black cars chasing you to the finish line trying to take you 
 down. Its fantastic adrenaline fueled rush. 
  
  Also the Road Rage races fit brilliantly with the new open world aspect. No finish line to worry 
 about just drive & takedown the other cars. Fantastic, pure fun. 
  
  If the whole new dircetion sits well with you & you can forget all the infuriating points mentioned 
 above then the city is a fantastic place & the game could last you almost forever its just chocked 
 full of things to do such as ruling roads (each road has a time trial & showtime score) & the huge 
 amount of unlockables & smashables. Its a mammoth task to hundred percent it. After 25+ hours & 
 the elite licence I only had it 80% complete. 
  
  Lastly whe it does all come together, your in a race & all the cars are surrounding you & you know 
 where your going, fixated on the vanishing point, boosting along at 200+ MPH, dodging traffic then 
 its a thrill thats unmatched by any other racing game. 
  
  Which makes it all the more depressing knowing that it could have all been this brilliant if they 
 just sticked to the structured race courses of old. If you want a new Burnout get the 360 version 
 of Revenge. Or if youve already got it, wipe your save & start again. You'll have a lot more fun 
 than you will with this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fable_fan88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I won't go out and say this is the best driving game ever... put they are on the right track ( 
 no pun intended) . its pretty difficult when you first play this game, but when you get use to the 
 city and where everything is at... it get alittle easier. I like the whole idea of a open world 
 driving game. But some aspects need some working on. like the online play, for what i have played... its 
 just dumb... worthless... if anything... i do like the graphics, they are great. But i hate... 
 HATE the way you are given the directions in the game ( if u want to follow them, you don't have 
 to... but you do better) the little blinking street and the clicking sound doesn't do it for me, 
 diff. when i am coming up on the turn at 500 mpr in boost and then time u get the click to turn 
 u miss it and u have to turn around and u end up in last place when u have been ahead the whole 
 race... but i guess it has ot have alittle bit of a challenge to it. besides that its pretty easy 
 game... i mean my 50 year old dad can play it and he doesn't like anything thats not a xbox live 
 arcade game... lol, but yeah its worth game though, a must buy fo sho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toyneo01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics, nice city design, sleek interface, awesome sense of speed and a lots of collectibles. 
 But a couple of poor design decisions keep me from recommending Burnout Paradise. 
  
  1. It's a long drive to switch vehicle, and you WILL need to switch vehicle to win events later 
 in the game.
  2. Can't warp to parts of the city, which contributes to point 1
  3. No option to restart a lost event. You have to drive back to the starting point. Simply not 
 fun when the game gets harder and you lose more often.
  4. DJ is very annoying, and there is no way to complete shut him up. Don't understand why developers 
 decide to have the DJ say nothing when you win, but say terrible things when you lose.
  5. No split screen... REALLY what makes developers think that every one of your friends wants to 
 have a XBOX360 and a copy of Burnout Paradise in order to play online. Forget friends... what about 
 playing with your family. 
  6. Wreck camera every single time gets old quickly.
  
  Open world design may be the best move for Burnout series, but points above prevent the game from 
 being GREAT. It's a GOOD game, rent it and return it once these annoying bits get to you, which 
 won't take long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of racing games. Over the years several different titles have slipped through 
 my library with very little attention. Those days are now behind me. Burnout Paradise is an exceptional 
 driving game. Above all else the driving is fairly realistic and the continually upgraded challenges 
 are addicting and fun. Graphics are beyond extraordinary! This game is almost too much fun. The 
 cars are not licenced models, but it really doesn't matter. The map is large and open and the routes 
 are not pinned down.
  I haven't spent very much time on the multi-player side, but what time I have spent is fun. I will 
 definitely take advantage of the MP. Also, the MP doesn't lag and the graphics are not sacrificed. 
 Dig it. I can't say enough about how much fun this game is. This is a Seriously addictive game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justin_smith77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  ... if you actually paid attention you would hear the beeping noise when you are in a race approaching 
 an optimum turn at any intersection. Even the street name flashes at the top of the screen on the 
 left or right side spelling out for you the best route to take... not to mention your turn signal. 
 Seriously, stop complaining, enjoy your freedom, and PAY ATTENTION! 
  
  I am amazed that the official review points to the fact that the game can seem overwhelming at 
 first as a flaw. I don't see that as a flaw. This game is great. I would have given it a 10 but 
 I feel one thing was missing. Crash mode. I like the puzzle feel of the crash mode in the second 
 two of the series. I think it's great that you can enter Showtime mode at any time, but there's 
 just something about Crash mode that everyone loves. And for god's sake bring back the fuel trucks! 
 If they add those as a download I will say the game is a perfect 10. 
  
  Graphics, racing, crashes, and on-line play are all awesome in BP. There is one flaw, although 
 barely noticeable, I would like to see fixed. I don't like crashing into invisible force fields 
 a couple inches thick around cars and other things. When I see my car crumbling two or three inches 
 before it hits an object, or when I crash in a race by hitting a car that I really did not hit 
 I get frustrated.
  
  All in all it's a great game, and definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdodds
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Burnout is an already amazing franchise but this time Criterion decides to go out of the Burnout 
 shell of high speed street circuit racing and allows you to roam a city at your pleasure whilst 
 searching for Smashes, Billboards and Super jumps. The city itself is very varied featuring countryside, 
 mountains a coastal area, harbour and a downtown area. It's not the largest city going but what 
 they've got is incredibly detailed. Now to get your cars you must win races eventually a new car 
 will be released into the city and you must take it down to own that car. You'll then salvage the 
 car in your garage (the Junk Yard) . Now whats new to the events, well races aren't on circuits 
 anymore you find your own route, it could be the wrong way for all you know. Then there are stunt 
 runs where you try and get huge points for doing impressive stunts. Road Rage is back and with 
 free roam is better than ever. Marked Man is a new event where you will have to survive to a certain 
 point which can get extremly fun in the right car. Burning route is your car's time trial, win 
 and you can unlock a improved version of the car. 
  Then there are road rules, every road is a time trial in itself get the best scores. There is also 
 showtime road rules get the biggest crash on that road! Very fun when doing this.
  
  Online the game increases the time you can play for adding freeburn and the freeburn challenges 
 which are incredibly fun when it involves upto 8 people doing something at the same time. You can 
 also set up online races.
  
  All in all i think this is a great addition to the burnout series, let's hope they do something 
 to please both burnout fans next time (those who enjoy this type of Burnout and those who enjoy 
 the last gen burnouts) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Its hard to get something as simple as Burnout wrong, even attempting to do away with menu's hasn't 
 damaged it THAT much.
  
  It would be nice if you could restart a race with a couple of button presses rather than have to 
 drive all the way back to the start point, but that would require the use of menu's and loading 
 screens, something Criterion think would ruin the game... certainly didn't ruin any of the previous 
 instalments.
  
  They had made a total mess of the Crash mode though, whilst in previous versions the crash junctions 
 required planning and timing to gain maximum damage from your explosion this just ignores all known 
 laws of physics and allows you to bounce like a rubber ball along the road from merely touching 
 another car.
  
  At least you can feel the vibrations when you crash, something sadly absent from other nameless 
 versions.
  
  Close but no cigar, I'll stick to Burnout 3 thanks very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MvdGT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  After two years of absence, the Burnout saga returns with a new title, Burnout Paradise. This game 
 has some interesting new features and returns with the same amount of destruction we were used 
 to.
  
  In Burnout Paradise, exploring the city and finding routes is the main element. In order to unlock 
 new races and drive-troughs you must explore Paradise City. In each race you must find a route 
 from point A to point B using your compass and mini-map, which is something confusing in the beginning, 
 but becomes like a second nature after you play the game for a while. 
  
  You get a license when you enter Paradise. This license is updated after you achieve the required 
 number of wins and each upgrade awards you a car and resets all the completed events.
  
  There are 5 different game modes in Paradise, first one being, obviously, the standard Race mode. 
 This mode is a sprint race that pits you against a number of opponents and the first one that gets 
 to the finish line wins the event. Marked man is another sprint type race in which you are followed 
 by some drivers that try to crash you. Your objective is getting to the finish line in one piece. 
 In Road rage you need to chase the other cars and score the required number of takedowns (crashing 
 your rivals) in the given time or before you are taken out (your car is destroyed) . Stunt run is 
 a time trail mode that requires you to get a number of points. This points are achieved, obviously, 
 by doing stunts (drift, reverse driving, jumps, barrel rolls, boost, etc.) . This results in a combo 
 that ends once you stop doing these stunts for a few seconds. Some of the stunts award you combo 
 multipliers. Burning routes are sprint races different for each car. In this mode you need to cross 
 the finish line in the given time and the award is an upgraded version of the car you were driving.
 
  
  Apart from the 5 race types there are some other things you can do around Paradise City. There 
 are smashable gates around the city, billboards and super jumps. You can also turn on different 
 road rules that allow you to play Showdown and set Time records on different routes around the 
 city. Showdown is the replacement of the Crash mode and it isn't as cool as the old mode. It's 
 quite fun, but gets boring after a while. In Showdown you need to roll your car into the traffic 
 to earn money and beat the target score.
  
  Cars are broken down into 3 classes. There are aggressive cars, that are very strong cars, good 
 for Marked man and Road rage modes. In this cars you are awarded more boost for takedowns or for 
 being taken down. The second class is stunt. Cars in this class are, obviously, great for stunts 
 and you are awarded more boost from doing them. The last class is speed. These cars are fast and 
 good for Race events and Time runs. You can only boost in these cars when your boost bar is full 
 and if you use it all, the car does a Burnout, which boosts your car even more. 
  
  The control and camera angle in this game are good. I haven't had any problems with these, controls 
 being easy to pick up. The only disadvantage might be the lack of customization for the controls.
 
  
  Graphics in Burnout Paradise are great. The game is full of detail and has a good lighting system. 
 There is also an amazing collision system, that makes each crash different and a pleasure to watch, 
 the way cars deform being mind blowing. 
  
  The sound effects are perfect, cars sound great and each effect sounds good. The soundtrack impressions 
 are mixed. Some of the songs are great and fit the game's action perfectly, other are great but 
 don't fit in the game at all and some aren't great at all and definitely don't fit in the game. 
 Voice acting is bad. The DJ on the radio is annoying and says the same things over and over again. 
 A good thing is that you can turn his lame tips off in the options menu, but you won't get rid 
 of him completely.
  
  Unfortunately, I couldn't play the game online and maybe the score might have been a bit different 
 if I did.
  
  Overall, this game is amazing, and brings some new elements to the Burnout universe. It's long 
 enough to keep you hooked for a few days of offline playing and comes with a good set of Achievements 
 (on Xbox 360) . 
  
  I give this game a 9.0. 
  
  1.02.2008| BH, www. xgamersdaily. com 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocktimusprime
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Picture this. Your closing in on the finish line. Four racers are behind you, boosting, desperately 
 trying to catch your ultra-light speed car. Your maybe 4 blocks from the checkered flag when suddenly, 
 a car flies over a cliff, lands on top of you (scoring a vertical take down,) and flat spins into 
 the finish. You cry a little, and but then you realize the beauty of the new Burnout.
  
  Open world racing rules. It's unpredictable, and fresh.
  
  Burnout Paradise ditches the conventional 
 "lap racing, on pre-determined tracks," in favor of letting you choose your own track. Races end 
 at eight separate points in the city in the eight major directions. Races can start at any intersection 
 in the city, and are marked by icons. You always have an idea of where you are going, it's just 
 up to you to get there.
  
  The result is races that never feel the same, and intense competition. The game suggest routes 
 on the HUD, but they aren't necessarily the best ones, they are just the easiest route. Sometimes 
 it pays to go a little bit out of the way, so you can avoid sharp turns in favor of long straightaways. 
 Maybe you know of a jump that will launch you over an intersection you would likely crash in? Or 
 perhaps your just using dumb luck, and making fast decisions, hoping for the best. Paradise City 
 offers so many routes to one finish line, that your sure to feel like you never take the same route 
 twice.
  
  What makes the open world formula work is the shear size of the game. Paradise City is a massive 
 metropolis, featuring busy intersections, mountain pathways, country roads, tunnels and abandoned 
 train tracks. The best part, the whole world is open at the beginning of the game, so no unlocking 
 new areas. The size is intimidating, but realistically, you can boost your way around town with 
 ease, so you are never too far from an area you want to be in. Say you want to go to the mountains 
 and do barrel rolls off the dam, but your in the downtown. Hop on the interstate and your there 
 in no time. There is always something new to find in Paradise City, and you'll soon stake out your 
 favorite spots to race and do tricks. Your not confined to roads, exploration will lead you to 
 a dirt stock car racing track, airport, even a quarry with jumps to die for. It pays to leave the 
 road in Burnout Paradise.
  
  The bulk of the game is simple. You have a learner's permit, and your goal is to get the elite 
 license. To do so, you have to win events. This includes mainstays in the Burnout franchise such 
 as racing, road rage, marked man, and burning route. New to the franchise is stunt mode, which 
 you have a set amount of time to pull off combo's of barrel rolls, super jumps, and flat spins. 
 Replacing crash mode is Show time mode, where you bounce your car along a road, hitting anything 
 in sight, causing pile ups and other carnage. Much like stunt mode, you earn multipliers and bonus' 
 for hitting certain objects like buses. 
  
  As you level up and upgrade your license, you gain new cars, and with those new cars, you can do 
 burning routes to gain souped up versions of that car. There plenty of paint options, and the cars 
 are still in their classic Burnout categories. Stunt cars can boost at will and Speed cars can 
 enter the super fast burnout mode. Aggressive cars can boost, but for what they lack in speed, 
 the make up in punch. Take downs are more brutal than ever thanks to the next gen graphics, and 
 will likely produce "oh snap!," moments. By the end of the game, your going to have an impressive 
 garage, and you will find a use for most of the vehicles.
  
  Perhaps what makes Burnout's open world shine more than anything is the online component of the 
 game. By simply pressing right on your d-pad, you are given a list of online options. Instead of 
 waiting for lobbies, you drive around as you would in single player until you join one. So there's 
 no unnecessary waiting. While in a game, you can "free burn," which is roaming the city with no 
 real goal, showing off your rides, and finding new places to explore. New to the online component 
 is the "challenges." These showcase the open world by having you participate in various stunts 
 as a team. You might have to drift x amount of yards, or collide in mid air, it's all fun, and 
 makes for great online moments. The challenges vary depending on the size of the game, but with 
 350 challenges available, you'll find plenty of replay value online.
  
  Of course how can you not talk about the racing online? Well the open world format really shines 
 here too. It won't matter if you have the best car, but it will help. What you really need is to 
 have the best route, and that doesn't always earn a victory. Online races are fast, fun, and unpredictable. 
 The front runner may end up taking a wrong turn, making others in the game follow. Or perhaps you 
 take a route that goes a completely opposite way. You may be avoiding take downs from other players, 
 but in actuality you might be making up time by not getting involved in the on road fighting. It's 
 almost always the best driver wins, not the best car.
  
  Burnout Paradise is not without flaws. The game does get slightly repetitive. In order to upgrade 
 your license, you have to win an obscene amount of events. At first it goes fast, but by the A 
 rank, you need to win 40 events, and don't even ask how many you need for Elite. (100+!) The plus 
 side though is a pretty lengthy experience.
  
  The open world is fun, but when you lose a race, you can't simply restart the event. You have to 
 drive back to that intersection and start all over. So it can be frustrating if you fail an event, 
 and ended up on the other side of Paradise City. 
  
  Traffic Checking is non existent. The slightest touch can send your car flipping into the air, 
 causing a wreck. There are "drive aways," where you survive a crash, but it's almost random, and 
 sometimes you wonder how you actually are driving away. Removing crash mode is a blow, and while 
 show time mode is great fun, it doesn't replace the beloved crash mode.
  
  Sometimes a bad mistake on a route will instantly lose an event, especially online. You get tempted 
 to not explore if you are in a tight race and want to win, rather than get the showy finish. While 
 there is glory in the short cut, and "coming out of nowhere" to win, it can also be your death 
 knell. You'll find yourself being more conservative when the race is on the line, instead of going 
 big like the game hopes you will.
  
  The soundtrack is dreadful and the in-game radio, DJ Atomica, is more annoying than helpful. What's 
 worse is you can't turn him off, but if your on an Xbox 360, you can at least use custom music. 
 If your on PS3, just get a ipod on some speakers and turn down the music volume. Let's not forget 
 the in-game advertising that at first is novel, but after awhile, you just wonder why the game 
 wasn't cheaper if they sold that much ad space.
  
  All in all, Burnout Paradise is an exciting new direction for the series. For older fans of the 
 series, it may be a change, but I implore you to give it a chance. If you love arcade racing, then 
 consider Paradise City utopia.
  
  Look for Burnout Paradise to be poking it's head around at the end of 08 for racing GOTY nods. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTalkative_Mime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I love how you have to take down cars to add them to your collection. It really makes you jumpy 
 trying to catch these cars. Once you get them into a wall, you feel so good. The graphics are incredible 
 and the license upgrades are great. The control scheme is very good too. I have only one complaint 
 and that is the soundtrack. Luckily I have it for the 360 and can listen to my Windows Media Player 
 stuff, because I don't think I could take the lousy songs in the game.. (Girlfriend by Avril Levine????) . 
 I personally like the speed type cars because you can do burnouts that link entire boosts together 
 if you use the whole boost in one go. I got up to a 12x chain then I wrecked into a wall because 
 I was going so fast! It is an incredibly good feeling taking people down, and Paradise is a game 
 I won't stop playing for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise makes the 3rd burnout game that i've owned. Right off the bat the first thing 
 you'll notice is this game moves crazy fast. There are times where you feel like you're driving 
 entirely reflexes and that is awesome. Most racing games that i've played in the past are all great. 
 They all seem to nail the basic gist of racing. The fun thing about Burnout Paradise is that it 
 moves seemlessly in and out of any mode that you're doing just like a GTA game (maybe even better) . 
 The reason Burnout Paradise stands out for me is that the developers decided this when they made 
 this game. "Okay, you don't feel like racing all the time? Here's some cool crap to do on the side" 
 From the discoverable jumps, breakable barriers and billboards, race events, sheer size of the 
 map, and completely gorgeous crashes, this game is almost perfect. I've only played a little online 
 so far and i have to say the challenges are fun in freeburn mode. It's nice that they included 
 an online mode that doesn't revolve around hardcore competition and it nicely adds a social element 
 to the game that would be hard to do in other online games. The only thing that holds it back are 
 some sketchy soundtrack choices like Avril Levigne "Girlfriend" which are easily disabled by EA 
 Trax in the options menu. The other minor annoyance is the commentary from former Radio BIG and 
 now Crash FM announcer DJ Atomica. Although some will gripe about the soundtrack and Atomica's 
 commentary, i found it tolerable and easy to tune out. If you want to know what it'd be like if 
 GTA and Burnout had a baby, look no further than Burnout Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeakywarrior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Maybe I was expecting too much after Burnout Revenge which was one of my all time favorite car 
 race/combat games. First as the Gamespot reviewer says, it is confusing and overwhelming to get 
 started. It took me about 3 hours of game play to figure out what I was doing and how to select 
 events tailored to the car I was driving. Once I figured that out, it did get a lot better. 
  
  Don't get me wrong the game looks great and is a fun diversion but it just seems to lack the 
 playability that all the previous Burnout games had. For one thing there is really no "Arcade Mode" 
 as you are pretty well in a "career mode" all the time as every event either adds points towards 
 a license upgrade or a car. 
  
  As a result the only part of the game play that is for sheer enjoyment is the "Showtime" mode where 
 you create exaggerated extended wrecks to run up high damage dollar amounts to try to beat some 
 score that someone else supposedly set. As far as I can tell it has no impact on your advancement 
 in the game or do you gain any useful experience. 
  
  I also agree that the event types are too limited. The "Road Rage" event is still fun but low targets 
 make it often simply too easy. The "Marked Man" events on the other hand are brutal and unbeatable 
 at first - at least until you upgrade to a few more cars and then they are still difficult depending 
 on the route and car you happen to be in. The straight "Race" events can be fun however if not 
 really familiar with the area map (as you likely won't be for a LONG time) it can be easy to miss 
 turns and take bad routes making easy wins hard to come by. The problem is it seems easy to go 
 the right "general direction" using the compass, however only quick reaction to ill-timed blinkers 
 signalling where to turn will give you the "best" route. Last -the objectives in the "Stunt" events 
 and the way to achieve them - are too unclear. I simply have resorted to driving around and essentially 
 jumping off of and into everything in the area hoping to reach the target score. I'm sure there 
 is a method to it but as of yet i haven't figured it out, nor what the advantage of having a "stunt" 
 rated car in that event is. 
  
  In closing - the game is likely one that will grow on me but don't expect an out of the box experience 
 like those you had with the previous Burnout games. I don't think it rates the "9.0" - ranking 
 it among the best ever, but it's no dog either. I guess I'm saying it may be all you expected or 
 not even close - it depends on what you were expecting. My expectations were high based on the 
 ratings and previous games in the series. I was a little disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adrik
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe they just removed every good thing this series had!!
  If you have played previous installments you will sure miss things like Aftertouch, Revenge takedowns, 
 double and triple takedowns I mean, Come on!! how can you just discard those great great features!!! 
 And lets not mention the new "Crash mini game". Previous burnouts were simply GENIUS in this aspect, 
 they got better and better as the saga evolved, a mix of puzzle with skill that was highly addictive 
 and fun! 
  This time around you just push "A-Button" like an idiot, trying to hit cars with price tags and 
 praying a Bus passes by, because it is a score multiplier. So you Rely more on luck than in skill. 
 Definetely a game for the simple minded, and if this is not enough the "Challenge" is to do it 
 on each and every one of the 30-something streets of boredom city! YAY!
  -Look dude! I can crash endlessly by just pushing the A button!! RAD!! huh-huh-huh
  -Wooow, like... Hey, 
 Let me try that Beavis! huh-huh...
  laaaame
  Oh and thats not all of whats wrong with this game, there is waaaay more!
  So lets suppose its 
 the first time you play the game, you start discovering the map, suddenly you discover a race or 
 something, you play and loose, guess what!?!? you cant retry! you have to backtrack all the way 
 to the mission you failed! Oh and you watch a bullet-timed crash scene every single time you crash, 
 at first its fun, after your 80th crash it gets old! specially when Backtracking!
  So you are presented with an open world map and you can choose how you get from A to B. Sounds 
 good? well only if you know the map! which of course you dont, your only aid is a tiny map on the 
 lower right which you have to be "quick gazing" in the middle of some serious action, Cars flying, 
 Debris, 200 MPH, you look at the tiny map to see where to turn! CRASH!!
  Man is that annoying!!
  I really dont know why so many people liked it... But then again People 
 just LOVE Halo...
  This game made me smoke again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The previous Burnout games had that wonderfully fun crash mode - See how much damage you could 
 cause and how much it could cost all in one go. That was a really fun and different idea. With 
 Paradise, all of that originality is gone. Everything that made Burnout games really cool is no 
 more.
  
  It feels like a cross between a Driver game and Test Drive Unlimited. The whole open world doesn't 
 really matter because it's pretty generic. You have your city area and your country area and thats 
 it. The cars are decent, but the boost level makes no difference - some versions of cars claim 
 to have more boost than their stock version but you can't tell it at all.
  
  Sometimes, the game physics decide to become even more unbelievable. You may think you just scraped 
 the side of a car but the game will think you wrecked and somehow force your car to crash. You 
 are forced to watch it wreck every single solitary time it happens and if anything hits it you 
 watch even longer until your car stops totally. You have no control as it wrecks like in previous 
 games - it's just supposed to be a Wow factor. There are also some vehicles that are unbelievably 
 overpowered (They're nigh impossible to wreck while driving) .
  
  The game tries to be innovative by not giving you a set path to each race (This would be a nice 
 idea if MC3, TDU and several others hadn't already done this better) , but ultimately there is only 
 one effective route. The game doesn't give you on screen visuals like arrows or anything, it just 
 displays a little blinking street name and turns on an imaginary turn signal on your car. Many 
 times it will do this as you're almost in the middle of the intersection of the street you need 
 to turn on and you will miss the turn and more than likely lose the race. The computer always knows 
 the right path of course.
  
  The cars don't really feel too different, it's mainly looks. They're in three categories: Muscle, 
 Tuner and Exotic. Each have their own usual characteristics but they all feel same among their 
 class. There's not much reason to want more of the cars since you've essentially driven them all 
 already. 
  
  The online play is a nice idea and fairly accessible. The problem is again with the physics. You 
 may be driving a huge tank and someone in a small car will hit you head on going the other way 
 and mysteriously total your car and keep driving. 
  
  These things take a game that started out as just an average racer to below average. It might be 
 worth a rental but definately not a buy. There is far better on the 360 than this. Taking the crash 
 mode out ruins the whole Burnout games. It seems game makers are on a pattern on the 360 of taking 
 long running series and changing their gameplay for the worse. NFS ProStreet started this trend 
 and now Burnout. Hopefully the next Burnout game will return the crash mode and get rid of the 
 pointless free roam mode. Free roam is only nice when you make something worthwhile out of it - 
 this one feels like it shouldn't be a free roam and it rightfully shouldn't. Very disappointed 
 in this game, could've been much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: extremely detailed, and no loading screens add to the fluidness.
  
  Gameplay: a little overwhelming at first, but after exploring and learning the tricks of the trade, 
 your in for a wild ride. With multiple collectibles and road rules-a-palooza to set, your never 
 gonna get bored. IN the later hours of gameplay, the road rages and marked man can be very frustrating. 
 if this occurs, i suggest just driving around and cooling off, maybe even look for the smashes, 
 billboards, and super jumps hidden in the world.
  
  Sound: good mix of music, including old custom tracks from the original burnout.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 Addicting, and involving with the new co-op system, and still free-roaming to boot.
  
  Controls: Very distinct, and fluid. Not clunky in any sense.
  
  I'd also like to cover a specific 
 fact that has been brought up by many reviews i've read. The open road querk during races. Many 
 complain of it being to open, but in fact it is not. Criterion did this so you didnt have to follow 
 any preset track, so it felt more like a real race occuring. So go back and rethink the whole open 
 world exposure in Paradise, and just appreciate how open and beautifully simulated it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  When I first started forming my thoughts for this review I had just finished my first license upgrade 
 and was kind of just getting the feel for the game. Over all, at the time, I was pretty impressed 
 with what I had experienced. A huge open world, some good graphics, a good soundtrack and many 
 things to do/look for in the city of Paradise. 
  
  I took until about  way through my second license before I realized exactly how much they ruined 
 this game.
  
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics, like I said, are "good" maybe even "great" when you are looking around at the city, 
 and your vehicle. The graphics and effects during big crashes are even AWESOME at some points, 
 it's just to bad that those points are few and far between. The single vehicle, or even two vehicle 
 crash replays are nothing less then spectacular, but, it seems that there are only so many angles, 
 or versions of replays so it feels like you end up watching the same kind of crash over and over 
 again. At least the city is neat to look at.
  
  Game Play:
  
  
  As mentioned the open world is HUGE, with lots and lots of places to go and races to enter, I think 
 I heard during the game that there are 120 intersections were you can pick up a race or challenge. 
 There are also billboards to look for, and gates (short cuts) to find, this helps give the world 
 its big open feeling.
  
  Navigating your way around is "ok" but there are times when you are trying to race from one side 
 of the city to another, and it can be difficult to follow a map and avoid collisions at the same 
 time, there are no more arrows pointing in the direction you need to go. 
  
  There are a few different kind of races/challenges. You have the standard "thee who gets their 
 first wins", then you have the "Try and get from point A to point B without dying" and you have 
 your standard "Take Down" races that were seen in previous games. There is also a "Stunt" route 
 where you basically just try to get as many points as you can before time runs out.
  
  Now you have probably noticed one thing, and may even be asking yourself "what about the crash 
 challenges" Well, there is where this game lost me. When I pick up a Burnout game I really look 
 forward to taking my car and driving it as fast as possible into a intersection or group of vehicles 
 to see how much damage I can rack up. Say "bye bye" what they did to this part of the game is flat 
 out disastrous! It's called "Showtime" and it feels like (to me anyway) a weird play on Katamari! 
 Now the whole point of the crash challenge is to just start the crash, and keep your car flying 
 through the air crashing into any vehicle you can find. Yes, it's fun for maybe the first 2 times, 
 and you can do it ANYWHERE in the city when ever you want, but the cool camera shots of the crash 
 are gone, and it just is not the same as in past versions of Burnout where you have loaded trucks 
 with their stuff flying all over the place -5 points right there, I did not buy this game for 
 a mix of Midnight Club and Burnout.
  
  I won't go into the multi player portion of this game for one simple reason. I can't, I stopped 
 playing it before I got that far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbitJR
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  I've always been a huge Burnout fan. I must've spent about one-hundred hours perfecting my career 
 stats on Takedown so when I saw that a free-roaming, next-gen real sequel had come out, I ran out 
 to get it with whatever I could.
  
  The first thing that happens when you start up the game is you're introduced to Paradise City - 
 your driving playground in the game - and given a license, as well as a battered stunt car to belt 
 around in. You can roam the entire city and take part in events such as road rage (reach a certain 
 number of takedowns before the time limit runs out/car totals) , race, stunt run (jump, flip and 
 generally mess around for points) , marked man (get to a point in one piece while avoiding a group 
 of muscle cars chasing you) and burning route (basically time trial, but each race is unique to 
 a car and unlocks a new one when complete) .
  
  One glaring problem with this game is just how overwhelming it can be getting around for the first 
 few hours. It is very, very hard to learn routes on this game despite having a minimap and a compass 
 and with one simple mistake you can take a wrong turning or crash and completely ruin your race. 
 Paired with the lack of a restart option and some AI drivers that will make it difficult for you 
 to catch up, this is often downright infuriating.
  
  The graphics and level of detail are fantastic in most places, it's always entertaining to scrape 
 your car against a wall and look over the scratches and dents you pick up, or wrap yourself around 
 a sharp corner and see your wheels and parts of the engine come off (I'm pretty sure there's a 
 fully-modeled engine under that bonnet) , though overuse of bloom and HDR in some places can ruin 
 the look and make it almost impossible to see more than a few feet in front of you.
  
  Sound effects are also superb, with every dramatic smack and screech an absolute joy to listen 
 to in 5.1 surround sound. The soundtrack is awful, on the other hand. Except for a couple of classic 
 songs most of them are your latest emo hits from Killswitch Engage or frankly embarrassing Criterion-produced 
 songs from Burnouts 1-3, luckily your Xbox can play custom soundtracks.
  
  The online portion of the game is impressive as well, granting you the ability to seamlessly join 
 an online game with up to 8 players and play in 350 online challenges, as well as race events over 
 the whole city with just a couple presses of the right button on the D-pad. You can also try to 
 beat road times and showtime (this game's version of crash mode, sadly not able to compare) scores 
 online against your friends or offline against some set scores and times. Acheivements are fair 
 too, ranging from winning your first race to discovering all the hidden shortcuts and jumps in 
 the game.
  
  Overall this is a fun, challenging game that sticks to the core elements of the Burnout series 
 but places it in a whole new format, just don't exprect it to be perfect. And hey, if you're still 
 unsure, Burnout Takedown has just been released for download on Live for 1200 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  There is nothing better than crashing and wrecking your car in Burnout Paradise . there is one 
 difference between burnout and other racing games ; in burnout you wont worry about wrecking or 
 crashing and not only wrecking is not frustrating but also it is too exciting.
  When you are playing burnout you wont feel frustrated for something like:-Oh damn I crushed again 
 and I wont win this race so I got to restart the race -. You will just enjoy racing . the game 
 is quite arcade and the control is much better than last game (revenge) and you can ride in the 
 streets of peaceful paradise city very easily . the graphics are too nice for a racing game (best 
 in racing games since now) . it is totally fast pace and if you miss one second then you are wrecked 
 . but as I told you before this does not mean you need to restart the race but instead you can 
 continue the race with a lower rate (and also you can definitely win the races even if you have 
 wrecked your car 4 times in a race ) . but even if you failed a race and you felt bored there is 
 no need to replay the same race again and again but you can take the next race practically half 
 a block away instead . burnout paradise is one of the biggest nominations for the best racing game 
 of 2008 . if you are a little interested in racing game you definitely need this game . and the 
 last but not least : an open world fast pace racing game with lots of 
  Exciting contents and appropriate length and stunning visuals but unfortunately mediocre sound 
 track . I recommend you burnout paradise on XBOX 360 with a
  HD_TV or a monitor (standard TV is not recommended ) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gefault
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Burnout with free roam of a whole City. And it works. Brilliant. 
  
  The events are all still there, but with that whole butt load of freedom tagged on the end. Cruising 
 about Paradise City is alot of fun, piles and piles of destructable items and scenery to smash 
 up, tons of crash jumps to do, and shortcuts to find. 
  
  I found a big quarry while just buzzing about, full of massive jumps, and with routes carved out 
 into the rock to burn round, its so much fun. 
  Found a car park (which turns out to be an achievement to find all 11) with jumps of the top leading 
 to more roof top to fly around.
  Found a studily big jump off the cliff tops down onto a train track, which then had a jump every 
 quarter mile, most of which with kickers to do barrel rolls (which didnt often come off) , which 
 leads to the best part of the game, the graphics of the crashes. 
  
  While flying along at silly speed on the wrong side of the road, its inevitable that a crash of 
 some kind is going to happen. And when it does, you dont know whether to be upset that you just 
 crashed, loosing your burnout chain, or the race, or whatever your doing at the time, or should 
 you be happy, as your about to see the most impressive crash graphics ever to grace a game. All 
 goes into super slow mo, and the camera pans round for a great view of the impact and you watch 
 in awe as the two cars crush and crumple and you see every component of the car, suspension, wheels, 
 brake discs, body panels, chassis, all bend, buckle and fly off in every direction as your lovely 
 motor turns from a car to a cube. It a strange sensation in a racing game to actually look forward 
 to crashing. But its what Burnouts been about all along, and now its better than ever.
  
  Looking for negatives, as you cant give a balanced review without them, there are a couple of things 
 I found annoying. In a race, you race from point A to point B, and you can take any route you want, 
 which is fine. Also the game points you in the right direction by flashing up road signs at the 
 top to let you know when you need to turn. But when your ripping along through oncoming traffics 
 and 100's of mph, it isnt exactly easy to keep an eye on the top for the road signs, so I found 
 myself missing alot of critical turnoffs, hence loosing the race.
  
  This seems to stem from a change EA have made with this burnout, where there are no artifical big 
 arrows or pointers to show things in the game. Rival cars is the biggest noticable thing here. 
 In games of old, they have a red arrow over them, so you know they were racers, not traffic, not 
 anymore tho, so i found myself ramming innocent cars, thinking i'd get a takedown, but actually 
 taking myself out on them.
  
  These two small gripes aside, this game is spot on and true to the Burnout franchise. You get freedom, 
 but not so much that you dont know what to do. And the possiblitys that freedom adds, make this 
 the best Burnout yet, simply because you will be able to play it for long without getting bored.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onliner2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is an arcade racer that will give you plenty to do in a huge racing environment. 
 Previous installments to the series locked you into a certain track and you would browse through 
 various menus to find what you were looking for. In Paradise City, the entire city host's the actual 
 race events, stunt events, burning route events, marked man events, and road rage events. There 
 are over 150+ events scattered between intersections and remote areas on the map. With the events 
 being located across the city, the player can choose what type event they would like to try while 
 driving across the city.
  
  Driving to the different events can be fun at first and it let's you explore the city without wasting 
 too much time not completing something, but as you progress through the game, driving to event's 
 can get tiresome. If you fail a cross city race into the mountains, you'll find yourself driving 
 all the way back to the start point just so you can trigger the race again and drive all the way 
 back. This was quite frustrating for me, especially towards the end of the game when you only have 
 a few hard events remaining. Also, there is no quick way of spawning at a "junk yard" (basically 
 your garage where you start the game from and can change cars, there are multiple scattered throughout 
 Paradise City) or teleporting to a point on the map. Driving across the city is just as part of 
 the game as completing events.
  
  You progress through the game by winning a certain number of events. After you win the amount of 
 events needed on your license, you upgrade to a new license and the map basically clears whichever 
 events you have completed and resets back to it's original state, allowing you to repeat races 
 you've already completed and tally up some more wins for your next license. The event resets and 
 limited number of event types leads to some repetitive gameplay, especially after the second or 
 third license you achieve, however, there are some side tasks you can complete like finding obstacles 
 to crash through, unlocking cars, finding secret areas, a car-crash minigame called "showtime" 
 and there is also a pretty deep multiplayer mode as well.
  
  Paradise City gives the multiplayer mode a nice "social" lobby where up to 8 players can drive 
 around in. Joining an online match is relatively seamless and you can access the online portion 
 from anywhere and any point in the game. You simply join the game from the same position on the 
 map where you were playing in singleplayer, there is no loading. There isn't an actual event or 
 challenge set until the host chooses one from the pause menu. You can choose to race on various 
 routes throughout the city or you can try to complete the 350 co-op challenges which differ from 
 smashing into eachother at a certain location or everyone performing certain stunts. The co-op 
 is a nice change of pace from most driving games where you usually just race against everyone. 
 The addition of using the Xbox 360 Camera to send "mugshots" to people who take you down or a pic 
 of yourself after winning a race adds to the fun, although this can definitely be misused (aside 
 from the occasional bird, I haven't seen anything too grotesque yet) .
  
  The sounds in the game are of high quality and really add that intense feel of racing at blistering 
 fast speeds. Engine noises differ from car to car and are believeable, even if the cars are fake. 
 Tire screeches and a displacement in wind as you zoom by traffic are done very well. The music, 
 however, is quite awful. If it's not some emo rock then it's some 20 tracks of techno from the 
 previous Burnout games. The fact that EA would allow Avril Lavignne's "Girlfriend" onto the track 
 list is not only embarrasing, it's downright sad.
  
  The graphics for Burnout Paradise are amazing. The cars are detailed fairly well and the environment 
 looks good if you're not driving fast enough to actually take notice. The amazing part of the graphics, 
 however, is the huge crashes and dismemberment of cars as they collide and fly through the air. 
 The body crumples according to impact and tires fly off the axles. Even the undercarriage of the 
 car sparks against the pavement if you land a huge jump or go over a small ridge. The camera that 
 catches the wrecks does a good job of tracking the car and changing angles and speed as you flip 
 from a blur into a slow-mo closeup of what is left of your car.
  
  The A. I. does a good job of keeping up with you and can be equally agressive, if not more than 
 you are. Progressing through the game is fairly steady and not too hard at first, but can get quite 
 challenging as you reach the last two licenses. I have seen the A. I. freak out at times and just 
 crash into head-on traffic or drive into a wall but all-in-all they respond to your position and 
 press hard for the finish line every time. Also, I have experienced a few bugs like being spawned 
 in the middle of a bridge causing me to have to turn off the console but nothing really game-breaking 
 or frustrating really. 
  
  Burnout Paradise has alot to offer to those who enjoy a good racing game. Arcade racers should 
 be able to jump right in and have a blast exploring the new city and taking down others on Xbox 
 Live. Simulation racers might have to get adjusted to the very responsive controls and the constant 
 usage of "boost" but the difference in cars and amazing sense of speed should lure anyone who enjoys 
 a good racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZzZEVOLUTIONZzZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Burnout paradise is easily the most fun I have ever had in a racing game. The single player open 
 world scheme is perfect. You can drive around the city of paradise for hours just going off of 
 jumps and doing barrel rolls. Or you can drive to ANY intersection of the city and start a challenge. 
 The races are fast paced and are just the right difficulty level at first. Upon ranking up your 
 license the races slowly get harder and the cars your race against get faster and more aggressive.
 
  There are only a few problems with burnout paradise holding it back from a higher score. The mini 
 map is a great feature when you are driving through paradise and need to make a certain turn to 
 make up lost time. However the position of the mini map is terrible. It is in the bottom left corner 
 of the screen which makes it very hard to look at mid race. Also once you wreck you have to watch 
 the full wreck in slow motion mid race. After crashing about 5 times because of traffic in one 
 race it gets kind of old. You should be able to skip watching the wreck by hitting a button.
  The online multi player action is very fun and addictive. First off there is the mode Freeburn 
 online. Freeburn online is basically you and 7 other people going through random challenges for 
 achievements and just for fun in between races. The actual racing itself is where it is at. You 
 can make your own race line or go through a pre made list of races. The game is xbox live vision 
 camera enabled so upon winning a race you can take a victory mugshot. Also upon getting taken down 
 you can send your angry face to the person who took you down. Some people have fun with it but 
 other like to use there middle finger alot.
  All in all this is a great game with minor flaws. There are several other things in this game not 
 mentioned in this review such as hot routes where you can take an existing car and upgrade it by 
 running a line across town in a sort of time trial. Also you can set time records for ANY street 
 in town which is awesome to be number 1 in the whole world for a street. Also there is a mode called 
 showtime where you can set your car up as a wrecking ball basically, the more cars you wreck the 
 more points you get and the longer you get to be in showtime. This is a must have for anyone who 
 loves racing games. My gamertag is zzzevolutionzzz if you want to race or just do challenges feel 
 free to add me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Millencolin543
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge burnout fan, i was absolutely looking forward to Criterion's newest iteration of their 
 longtime racing series with the release of Burnout: Paradise. Originally skeptical of the new "sand-box" 
 format of the straight forward racer of the past, i was totally turned around in my views once 
 i played for 5mins.
  
  Burnout: Paradise in my eyes, is the greatest Burnout to date. Being able to move at your own pace, 
 complete what any objectives you'd like too in whatever order you'd like, is a huge leap forward 
 in the racing series and offers a new comfortable atmosphere and more user friendly gameplay system.
 
  
  The game is based around the user's "License," which begins as a D license and continues up to 
 an "elite" license, which is reserved for the die hard, must-complete-everything, player. The user 
 moves up their license ladder by successfully completing challenges, such as races, road rage, 
 and marked man scenarios just to name a few. New to the burnout series is the new "Showtime" system. 
 The user is allowed to turn on their "Showtime" mode at any point offline or online. Having this 
 mode on, now allows the user to compete in a specific crash, or time attack challenge on any and 
 EVERY street. Every Street has a pre-set record of crash and time attack, and it is up to the user 
 to beat them offline, and online.
  
  Burnout: Paradise's online mode completely annihilates Burnout: Revenge's online setup. BP's online 
 mode offers over 300 different challenges, depending on how many players are in a current room, 
 which holds up to 8 users. Users work together to complete tasks such as jumping a certain jump 
 X amount of times, or by setting up rendez vous locations that all users must get to. Signing online 
 whilst showing off your newest prized car to take out everyone and anything is worth the purchase 
 of this game to begin with. Not to mention getting into an online game is now as easy as ever. 
 A simple few presses of the D-pad while crusing around the city will get you online... not too 
 difficult at all.
  
  Plenty of car rewards await the user who is willing to put in the time to complete challenges and 
 take out random city dwelling opponents whom make their presence known throughout gameplay by ramming 
 your car ever so politely... . . If i must list a downfall of this game, and i must... The AI will 
 absolutely annoy you once you hit the A license level. They're harder to knock around and they're 
 love for taking you out is only superseded by their need to cross the finish line ahead of you. 
 You might have a few "Im gonna **** throw my controller" moments... but eh... what game haven't you 
 done that with?
  
  Without taking up my entire night writing down every fantastic thing about this game... allow me 
 to sum it up simply with, buy it. I'm helplessy addicted to Burnout: Paradise. Buy Buy Buy.
  
  -MC543 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian5
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Remember when you were a kid and on christmass day you came down stairs to find a brand new tyco 
 car set was under the tree and you could not wait to set it up and let loose with cars racing upside 
 down, climbing up walls & crashing into each other. Well if thats you then what are you waiting 
 for go buy this game! This is the game the makers of Midnight Club have been promising us for years 
 & has never come to pass. With Burnout Paradise you get a incrediably fast, beautifully looking 
 crashtastic racer that flys by at a silky 60 fps. As a added bonus this all takes place in a incredablie 
 massive and detailed city, more like a county than a city. Once you get past the start menu thats 
 it goodbye menu's hello open world racing. Want to invite people into play with you push right 
 on the d-pad controller flick off a invite and within a few seconds they are in the game. Up to 
 8 gamer's can join a party & then it's entirely up to you on what to do & explore. You can set 
 up start points and end points if you would like to race or you and your friends can take on over 
 350 challenges and try to complete them either cooportively or competivily. Completing some will 
 unlock acheviements or unlock some of Paradise Citys hidden secrets. I have talked two people into 
 buying this one and both have told me this is one of there best games for the Xbox. Also if you 
 have played the demo do not I repeat do not form a final opnion of this game based on that experiance. 
 I really do love the Burnout series I consider Burnot 3 to be the best game this series has had 
 to offer up till the release of Paradice I can say the demo does not give a proper repersentation 
 of the final game. There is just so much to do inside of this package and this is one game people 
 should own. -Stu- My Xbox Live Gamertag Chic N Stu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peasly
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Paradise City is quite difficult to navigate at first, but once you learn where the finish
  lines and the routes are it becomes good fun. Its good that you get a whole city to
  explore 
 rather than choose from a map, sort of reminds me of Midnight 3 Club Edition..
  
  You get to search for collectibles like jumps, gates, and billboards, most which you
  find as 
 your going along..
  
  To unlock more powerful cars win events then takedown the cars as they go by.
  You only have 
 to get a few wins to get your first license. There are fives types of
  events which can be completed in any order and (if won) added to your license.
  My favourite 
 race is still Road Rage, i seem to be very good at this..
  
  At first getting used to the controls is a bit tricky, it just takes practice. This is mostly
 
  the case when you go into 'crash mode' and try to crash as many vehicles as you
  can.. a bit tricky..
  
  As many people have reported the demo is crap.. i agree.. but dont 
 let this put you
  off the full game as they are nothing alike..
  
  Burnout Paradise is an incredibly fun and exciting racing game, try it and see.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: positive_damage
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  When first playing Burnout Paradise it may seem like the developer, Criterion Games, decided to 
 abandon the old Burnout formula and attempt to take the series into uncharted waters by giving 
 the player an entire city to race, and more likely crash, through. Then after the first few hours 
 it becomes clear that that change was probably for the better. Paradise City will be fairly difficult 
 to navigate at first, but as soon as you learn where the finish lines are located and the fastest 
 routes to get to them the game becomes extremely fun. Even searching for the collectibles (i. e. 
 jumps, gates, and billboards) have been made more enjoyable due to the fact that many require you 
 to preform some kind jump or other maneuver in order to get to them. It is equally exciting when 
 you can string multiple jumps, billboards, and gate-smashes together.
  
  Starting out in Paradise City is pretty simple, you get a low-level car and a learner's permit 
 and are told to accumulate enough wins to get to the next license. To unlock more powerful cars, 
 you must win events and then takedown the cars as they cruise the streets of Paradise. You only 
 have to get a couple wins to get your first license, but as you progress through the game it takes 
 more and more wins to graduate to the next license as each event becomes increasingly more difficult. 
 There are fives types of events scattered around the city, all of which can be completed in any 
 order and (if won) are added to your license. One of the first events you will probably want to 
 try is a race, but unlike Burnout games of the past you aren't given a specific track to race through. 
 Instead you are told to race to one of the eight points on the map that are designated as "finish 
 lines". The route you take to the finish is totally up to you, though I will say that following 
 the other cars isn't always the best option.
  
  Another racing-type event is Marked Man, in which you must get to one of the finish lines before 
 your vehicle is destroyed by a group of pursuing sports cars. Just like races, you must find the 
 fastest way to the given finish line to win. The last 'get from A to B' event is a Burning Route, 
 which is this game's version of a time trial. Each time you get a new car it unlocks a Burning 
 Route for that vehicle, where you must get from start to finish in a given amount of time. If you 
 win you are rewarded with a sometimes better version of that car. I say "sometimes" because I have 
 found that in some cases the original is better. One of the more challenging events is Stunt Run, 
 where you must score a set number of points before time runs out. Points are awarded for drifts, 
 jumps, boosting, spins, and barrel rolls while multipliers are given for airtime, smashing through 
 billboards, and most of the stunts previously mentioned. 
  
  The last of the five events, and by far my most favorite, is Road Rage. Road Rage events are similar 
 to those in Burnouts of the past, but there are a few key differences. For one thing it can become 
 very easy to get an incredible amount of takedowns if you can manage to repair your car before 
 it gets totalled. Another difference is that because you have an entire city at your disposal, 
 it is wise that you plan routes to take so you can do maximum damage. Getting 50-60 takedowns an 
 event is quite possible with just a little planning.
  
  Now that I've talked about the ways to get awesome cars, what better way to show off your awesomeness 
 then to smash your beautiful car into someone else's beautiful car online! The online portion of 
 Burnout Paradise is one of the more thrilling experiences I've had over the internet. Of course 
 you have your ranked and unranked races, but there's also Freeburn Online, where you and up to 
 seven other people can roam around the city and crash into each other, set up races, and complete 
 online challenges. Teamwork is a big factor when trying to complete challenges since it requires 
 the cooperation of everyone playing, so having a headset is a plus. One interesting feature is 
 the way camera support is used in the game. Not only is the camera used for your license photo, 
 but every time you win a race or are taken down by another player it takes a snapshot for everyone 
 else to see. As of this post I thankfully have not received any pictures of someones 'privates', 
 and hopefully it stays that way. 
  
  As I'm sure everyone knows, everything has its good and bad. Sadly Burnout Paradise has a few problems 
 that should be discussed. First whenever you are in an offline event and you lose, there isn't 
 any kind of retry feature which means that if you want to try the same event again you must drive 
 all the way back to the start. This can become quite frustrating when you try to get your Burnout 
 Elite license since you have to win every event in the city. Another problem I've had is with the 
 camera being set too low behind some cars. In smaller cars the camera is set so low you sometimes 
 can't see if there is a car in front of you. It is really more of an annoyance than anything else. 
 At times the online play can be annoying as well. As I said earlier a headset is a big plus because 
 some challenges require communication between players. I've been in a few games where our party 
 could not complete a challenge because one player could hear us or just didn't care. Also if someone 
 quits during a challenge it is cancelled, which can also be frustrating since certain objectives 
 require a certain number of players. 
  
  All in all Burnout Paradise is an incredibly fun and exciting racing game, though a few problems 
 could sadly turn some people away. Even though they aren't huge problems, they may become enough 
 of a hindrance that a select few might want to put the controller down and try something else. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MPK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  FIrst things first: Criterion deserves a lot of credit for releasing Burnout Paradise, as opposed 
 to Burnout Retread. Clearly they were willing to take some chances with spicing up the old Burnout 
 formula to bring fans of the franchise something a little different. The burning question that 
 remains: did all of that tinkering work?
  
  Not enough to ruin the game, but not enough to send the game to the elusive next level either.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, when Burnout Paradise works, it REALLY works. The graphics in this game are 
 absolutely stunning, for one thing. We're no strangers to open-world, free-roaming racing (NFS 
 Most Wanted and Carbon, Test Drive Unlimited) , but BP brings us amazing visuals that those three 
 titles, while visually impressive (less so with TDU) , could only dream about... and at a amazing 
 60fps that pretty much never stutters or hitches. Neither the NFS nor TDU could come close to pulling 
 that feat off. And the audio works just fine too, although whoever picked Avril Levigne's "Girlfriend" 
 for the soundtrack needs to be executed immediately, and violently at that. 
  
  Unfortunately, the world of Paradise City is so beautiful and striking that everything else in 
 the game takes a clear backseat to it... including the actual races themselves. The fact that the 
 whole world is accessible right from the get-go is actually a detriment rather than an enhancement; 
 everything looks so damn good that you'll probably spend far more time early on checking out the 
 sights than actually racing. What's bad about that is that you'll see most of the landscape way 
 before you're even close to finishing the many races this game throws at you. One of the main allures 
 for many racers is seeing new tracks and different scenery as they progress through the game. BP 
 has effectively removed that dangling carrot from the equation, and it's a big carrot at that.
 
  
  That brings us to the racing. Burnout titles have always forsaken all other racing elements for 
 two in particular: speed and destruction. Suffice it to say that BP serves up mass quantities of 
 both. The downside is that there's not nearly enough variety in the racing types to stave off the 
 repetitiveness that starts to set in around the License B class. Road rage is fun for a while, 
 but there's just not much strategy to it: just keep sideswiping cars into the sides of the track, 
 stay within the general vicinity of a repair shop and you're in. Standard racing comes down more 
 to not getting lost than it does to being better than your opponents. Marked man is OK too, though 
 not really amazing. Stunt mode has its moments... I'm still getting used to that one. And I'm sorry, 
 not being able to start a race over, or to even abort one in progress, is absolutely ridiculous; 
 for that matter, would it be too much to ask to allow players to warp to a junkyard to change up 
 their vehicles? It's almost as if Criterion was worried that players wouldn't check out every last 
 street of Paradise City and the surrounding countryside unless forced to... which they shouldn't 
 be, because everything here looks so damned good that I can't think of anyone who wouldn't want 
 to find every last nook and cranny of eye candy... on their own terms. 
  
  Although Crash Mode had its share of flaws, Showtime Mode comes off as downright silly, and shallow 
 at that. Here's what you do: drive around, look for two or three buses (dollar multipliers are 
 tied to them) , hit the shoulder buttons, and ring up the cash. You have some control over what 
 you're doing, but not so much that you feel like you've pulled off some amazing feat whenn you 
 ring up an impressive damage total. It basically comes down to this: find some buses and a good 
 number of cars, and you'll beat whatever total was programmed into the game, no questions asked.
 
  
  Yeah, the game has some flaws and can get repetitive in a hurry, but there's still something fun 
 about it that keeps me coming back. Although the actual racing and gameplay doesn't quite live 
 up to the breathtaking visual splendor, the world of Paradise City is so impressive that you'll 
 keep coming back too. Once Criterion better understands how to implement open-world racing and 
 fixes what are very correctable flaws, I easily foresee a "10" for their next effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  The last two Burnout games were the only racing games I ever played to completion. I tend to get 
 bored with traditional racers like the Need For Speed series but had a blast with Burnout Revenge. 
 I was looking forward to the next-gen version.
  
  Now that I've played it for a couple hours I'm kind of torn. On one side it looks fantastic and 
 has the same feel for speed that the previous incarnations had. The crashes as always with this 
 series look fantastic, a near miss collision gi ves you that rollercoaster ride thrill that is 
 hard to top.
  
  One the other side when playing the game I can't fight off the urge to pop Burnout Revenge into 
 my old x-box (I never got the 360 version of Revenge or I likely would have) . 
  
  There have been a lot of complaints about the open world nature of Paradise and the fact that there 
 is no shortcut to get to a race or junkyard. It is annoying that when you want to switch cars you 
 have to find a junkyard in real-time but I can live with that. I was never so irritated that I 
 didn't want to play anymore. There are now different kinds of cars which change the way you get 
 boost (aggression cars get more by being aggressive, stunt by doing jumps and tricks and the ever 
 so annoying speed cars can only use boost when the meter is full) . I can live with the different 
 cars too.
  
  What I find the most irritating thing about the game is that it is way too easy to get lost during 
 races, the entire city of Paradise is open, the races are not blocked off to keep you on track. 
 In order to know when to turn during a race you either have to pay a lot of attention to the compass 
 which for me at least often leads me to crashing because my full attention is not on the road in 
 front of me (a good lesson for the kids I guess-always keep your eyes on the road) . The other option 
 is to constantly switch back to the map, again annoying.
  
  Crash mode is also gone in Paradise, I miss it. The replacement Showtime mode is just plain stupid. 
 At any time you can send your car into a ridiculous spin which you can pinball down the road for 
 virtual miles trying to crash into as many cars as possible. It is kind of amusing the first time 
 but after that is is just dumb. Crash mode had its faults but was a lot more fun. 
  
  I appreciate that the developers wanted to do something different with this game and not just duplicate 
 the past versions but they took some of the things that made the earlier games so much fun out 
 of the game. 
  
  Paradise is still a lot of fun to play, it isn't just a great looking game that gets boring after 
 ten minutes (like say Assassin's Creed) but I can't help but feel slightly dissapointed with it. 
 If I hadn't played the previous two Burnout games then I would probably not have these qualms about 
 Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeMama365
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Burnout's open-world attempt does not disappoint. The moment the game starts, you can drive anywhere 
 in the world, and there are always new hidden routes or jumps one finds even after twenty hours 
 of game play. 
  
  Events are pretty fun, especially in multiplayer mode, but I was unhappy with the crash event which 
 is limited to a show-time mode that can be done at any time. This show-time mode eliminates all 
 strategic gaming that was present in previous versions.
  
  There's no story or plot to this game... No characters; there are not even drivers in any of the 
 vehicles! While this doesn't take away from the game, it could have added to it. I was also surprised 
 that the programmers did not even attempt to add a police force to chase drivers around the city 
 like in out racing or GTA-like games.
  
  Graphics are dazzling. Probably the best crashing yet! The only glitch is that when you are close 
 to losing an event the contrast purposely decreases which makes it hard to make out traffic when 
 going at excessive speeds.
  
  This game is a must buy for racing fans, but I would hold off if you are not part of that group 
 of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pumph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  This is my quick review thus far..... after achieving the Burnout License:
  
  I was amazed to find that I only had 50% of the game completed as the credits roll. Better still 
 I was highly motivated to keep playing. I had 50 of 80 cars unlocked and hadn't played online much.
 
  
  Overall this by far the best racing game I've ever played. I don't care for games like Forza, Project 
 Gotham Racing, etc. None of them. Even the last few Burnout games were too linear to me. Non linear 
 progression is an amazing concept I hope other racing game developers will learn from.
  
  I chose a very specific way of getting my Burnout License and had a blast doing so. I tended to 
 race, revenge and mark man my way to cars opening. Then I'd use those new cars to win Burnout races 
 so I'd have each car upgraded when I got to the end. I found it easier to dot this.
  
  If I have a gripe or two they'd be the following:
  
  First it would be "Stunt" challenges and 
 the reason I find them hard is the 2nd gripe. As for Stunt, I've yet to complete a run for 100,000. 
 It seems impossible with the time constraints. Furthermore, driving around to figure out a good 
 stunt route is also too painful.
  
  Enter gripe number 2. The map. This is what is at the center to most of my frustration in the game. 
 I didn't mind having to drive back to a start point after losing a race. I saw that as part of 
 the motivation to win. My problem is that you can't set "way points". Way points should be an unlockable 
 bonus after a certain pont in the game. In fact, puzzling, in Paradise online can't one set checkpoints 
 for a race? Maybe Criterion will give us a true "GPS" as DLC. I hear "reload" will be in DLC but 
 that's not that big a deal. As I said, driving back to start point was motivation to me. Plus I 
 would "race my way back" to a previous lost start point.
  
  Again, a great game. The best! Never was I more sucked into a game than Burnout Paradise. A game 
 has to be great to pull me away from COD4, Mass Effect, Bioshock or Halo 3.
  
  I am also playing this game on a PS3. It looks great on the PS3. I can see little difference other 
 than the lack of anit-aliasing on poly edges with the PS3. The load times on the PS3 seem to be 
 a wee bit slower too. Going from the 360 controller to the PS3 also takes some getting used to. 
 I'm about 33 races from the burnout license on the PS3 and will definitely play through to the 
 end.
  
  9.7 (both versions) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  It's hard to believe, but Criterion's Burnout series has been wowing us for over six years now; 
 across four different titles and two platforms. The goal has pretty much been the same with each 
 iteration of the franchise: smash into other cars until they beg for mercy.
  
  As consoles and gaming networks become more complex, there is an underlying need for software that 
 is just as complex-or, at least, code that attempts to push the envelope a bit further. It's also 
 quite apparent to game companies that each successive title in a series (especially a heralded, 
 long-running one) must be critically better than the next. "Better" might be too subjective for 
 the folks over at Criterion to nail down in code, but it's obvious with its latest smash-em-up 
 Burnout Paradise that it's pulled out all of the stops on its way to creating an extreme racer 
 fit for the current console-gaming landscape.
  
  While we're fresh on the subject of landscape, the actual environment of Burnout Paradise is one 
 of the central ways in which this game is such a departure from its predecessors. In the Burnout 
 games of yesteryear, the environments always played second fiddle-or perhaps a pawn-to what was 
 happening on it. You'd load up a point-to-point course or some random intersection that was plucked 
 from the designer's mind; bumping and crashing your way to giddiness. This was all well-and-good 
 for the Burnout series to this point, but generic strips of land chosen in a menu interface simply 
 did not fit in with Criterion's plan for making Burnout Paradise a social party crasher. 
  
  In place of the time spent in the U. I. and at intersections in the middle ofwherever, Burnout 
 Paradise offers up Paradise City; eighteen-plus square miles of concrete that serves as the playground 
 for this installment of bumper cars. Paradise City is expertly modeled, but not after a city that 
 already exists out there (don't let the HOLLYWOOD-style PARADISE sign fool you) . It's apparent 
 from the start that these neighborhoods were fiendishly devised to make the persistent racing action 
 as exciting as possible via narrow passes, construction zones and more spots to catch air than 
 a skate park.
  
  One can't legally floss U. S. roads without a driver's license, and the same holds true for the 
 stunt track known appropriately as Paradise. Plug in the Xbox 360 Vision Cam and your license to 
 drive will have on it the face only a mother could love. The driver's license and Vision elements 
 of Burnout Paradise aren't hollow gimmicks, either. The license is the slick way in which Criterion 
 tracks your progress through Burnout Paradise (not to mention a way to provide drivers with new 
 hardware to abuse) , beginning, of course, with a learner's permit. The camera compatibility goes 
 beyond the driver's license photos by being part-and-parcel of the "Mugshots" system, which enables 
 competitors to show off their mooks to the competition, mid-takedown. The entire Mugshots system 
 is rather unique (especially since it is tied into the trophy area) and has been constructed cleverly 
 enough to be much more than a passing fancy in Burnout Paradise.
  
  Also, the furthest thing from gaming gimmickry is the "always online" construction of Burnout Paradise. 
 The online elements of Burnout Paradise are such a part of the regular gameplay of Burnout Paradise, 
 in fact, that you'll probably be taken aback by how it has all been devised. Yeah, you'll still 
 have to dig into a menu in order to call friends to an event or cue up the online racing action, 
 but it all happens while your tires are still sticky on the tarmac of Paradise City. A quick flick 
 of the D-pad can show you your friends list, set up a race route with user-defined checkpoints 
 or get a racer involved with best part of the online action known as FreeBurn. The FreeBurn challenges 
 are comprised of what seems like a limitless amount of objective-style events designed to work 
 with the exact number of human drivers available at that time. Even though there are TONS (as in, 
 hundreds and hundreds) of FreeBurn events, nary one of them comes across as useless filler in place 
 merely to make Burnout Paradise seem heavier in the britches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asurapwner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of exploration in games, and perhaps it's fair to factor that into the following 
 review.
  
  This game was a real surprise to me. I had heard that Burnout Paradise featured an open world and 
 was elated. However, I soon became concerned when thinking back to Test Drive Unlimited. Test Drive 
 Unlimited was irritating in several ways and they all pertained to the open world feature. This 
 game, however, managed to dodge the bullet.
  
  Featuring a very different world involved different event types. The point-to-point races provide 
 for a succinct and high-speed racing event. The Marked Man event is a great combination of Racing 
 and Road Rage and validates the creation of the "Aggression" class. Road Rage got a helluva' lot 
 better with the open-world because of the fact that cars will fly in from everywhere, giving you 
 the feeling that everyone everywhere is kicking each other's arse. The Stunt Runs, however, I feel 
 are the weak point. You're often so concerned with the tiny amount of time you end up just boosting 
 infinitely forever trying to prolong your time. Without proper notification (such as when you're 
 low on damage in Road Rage or Marked Man, the Auto-Repair sign is bright red) of where stunts are, 
 you end up either going the wrong way or hitting the initial stunt that the event points you at, 
 and then you're left to hit tiny ramps here and there. Ultimately, it could've been done better.
 
  
  The new cars are all great, and aren't so generic like they were in their preceding games. The 
 stat display, however, is a bit weak. You have no idea how the car handles in terms of grip, cornering 
 and drift outside of the brief description you're given upon unlocking the car. However, other 
 than that the stats are rather helpful in deciding what car to use for what. The differences between 
 the three car classes make for heightened player-customization which is always a plus. The alternate 
 finishes could've been a bit more varied, but all in all your car's gunna' end up all destroyed 
 anyways.
  
  The free-burning aspect of the world is very enjoyable; I can't get enough of it. First of all, 
 having to shut down cars to unlock them is a tiny but incredibly brilliant idea. It makes unlocking 
 cars feel so much more rewarding! Everytime you feel your heart racing as you chase a car through 
 the dangerous streets, hoping that the car won't get lost in the distance. The irritating thing 
 about this part of the game is that going through an auto-repair, paint shop (a feature which seems 
 both unnecessary and rather fun at the same time) , or a gas station resets the streets, which removes 
 your car you've been chasing for some five minutes from the streets without so much as a rude gesture.
 
  
  The Road Rules are an awesome and appropriate addition to the game. I never really liked Crash 
 mode, I felt it was more like some ridiculous surgical puzzle than a real crash mode. "Hit this 
 car/truck here, blow up, hit that small target, you win.". However, the all-new Showtime mode is 
 bot hilarious to watch, and challenging at the same time. The all-out chaos that ensues once you 
 hit Showtime mode is just hilarious; often to the point of distraction. Ultimately, however, as 
 a racer, I found the Time Road Rule to one of the most enjoyable aspects of this game. From the 
 10 second streets to the 2 minute ones, it's a ton of fun to go headlong down the street at full 
 speed with your 616 Sport or your Revenge Racer with your eyes peeled and bleeding.
  
  The online mode is a barrel-o'-fun, just as it always has been; competitive and a complete adrenaline 
 rush. The free-burn mode keeping track of all your little nifty records holds interest while you're 
 waiting for the Host to create events. The 350 challenges aren't the most elaborate, but that just 
 means that they're doable and a great deal of fun.
  
  Ultimately, this game is very fleshed out, and a ton of fun, but it's missing little conveniences 
 and has tiny hang-ups that keep it from achieving 10-rate-worth-greatness. Not being able to disable 
 that ridiculous waiting time after crashing (let's face it, it's fun for the first day, then you 
 just want to play and not watch yourself get owned) or the takedown camera which just screws you 
 up a lot and isn't all that necessary is something that seems to point out laziness in the games 
 creation, but what do I know of the industry? The bad music selection, and lack of quick-jump features 
 (Anyone who's had to drive from the Wildcat's Stadium to the Observatory only to lose and have 
 to do it over again knows what I mean) will mean you lose a lot of time getting lost or forgetting 
 what you were doing. However, none of those issues are true detriments to the game, and will only 
 be a tiny thorn in your side in specific situations. 
  
  Overall, I gave this game a 9.5. It truly is the best in the series. Maybe that's just because 
 it's doing something new with the whole series, but regardless, it's invariably fun, invigorating, 
 challenging and ultimately addictive. The slight hiccups in the design, however, keep this game 
 from being truly wonderful.
  
  Happy Burning racers, and enjoy Paradise City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The racing game genre, and as of the last 5 or 6 years, the "street racing" genre, have been a 
 never ending series of clone games. Burnout Paradise takes the street formula and provides a very 
 well done mash-up of street racing styles into one huge, open ended game.
  
  The good:
  1. Great graphics that really capture a sense of fluid action and speed without any drops in framerate 
 or quality regardless of the chaos you're causing.
  2. Huge, open-ended game world. Instead of a series of tracks, it's one gigantic city with a huge 
 number of little nuances to explore.
  3. Seventy five (yes, 75) different cars, tons of little "capture the flag" elements, and varied 
 in-game events (that you choose at your leisure -- you drive and only stop and compete when you 
 feel like it) provide enough variety to keep you interested for a long, long time.
  4. A nice scaled difficulty system -- the events scale in their difficulty (as do computer opponents) 
 as you advance through the game. So even from the start, if you're a racing rookie, you'll win 
 events and have fun. Then later when you're a racing stud (or something like that) , you'll keep 
 getting challenged.
  5. Terrific multi-player support -- the free-form nature of simply encountering other online players 
 and getting to take them out is a great twist on the standard head-to-head racing fare (which is 
 also present if you like that) .
  
  The bad:
  1. Built-in game music (gotta love the use of Guns-n-Roses "Paradise City", though) is good, but 
 gets repetitive quickly.
  2. While I actually don't mind "DJ Atomica" (of SSX fame) , they tend to over-repeat his one liners 
 which get old quickly.
  3. Would be nice if there were more in-game options to adjust the music/voice overs (or turn them 
 off...) , change traffic density, etc.
  4. Map uses very fine detail which is very hard to see on an analog (i. e. non-HDTV) TV set.
  
 
  But overall, if you liked the old-skool Midtown Madness, or have been a fan of the likes of Midnight 
 Club, then this is a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Title: Burnout Paradise
  Publisher: Electronic Arts
  Developer: EA Criterion
  Genre: Racing
  Platform: Xbox 360, PlayStation 3
  Rating Everyone 10+
  
  Score: 7/10
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Audio: 8/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Technical: 9/10
  Packaging: 6/10
  
  Note: The author of this review does not play non-MMO games online. This review is written 
 based only on the single-player components of this title.
  
  Graphics
  
  Artistically, Burnout Paradise uses a lot of surreal tones and a very washed out palette. While 
 it's still easy to tell colors apart from one another, the designers have decided to display the 
 game in a way that makes it look more like a mid-90s racing flick or a home movie rather than a 
 modern day drift/racing picture. This is confusing as most of the gameplay reminds one of Fast 
 and the Furious rather than something that we would have seen in 1995. The game makes heavy use 
 of bloom and HDR effects to give the impression that you're racing in a dream rather than real-life, 
 which was a great choice given the very fanciful nature of the game's crashes. Car designs are 
 wide ranging and well-designed, so there's a lot of variety in what you race and you'll most likely 
 never be turned off by the set of wheels you're cruising around in. As for the world around you, 
 there's a lot of variety in what's available. You'll drive through a bustling downtown area with 
 lots of shining glass, a harbor area where the water front is just in sight, mountainous roads 
 with lots of pine trees and dirt, a full fledged dam, and an area around a small country town just 
 outside city limits.
  
  Audio
  
  Like the graphical presentation, the game tries to sound surreal in its audio presentation as well. 
 There's lots of low and loud tones, and heavy use of bass throughout. Driving under bulkheads of 
 large bridges will get you a very deep "thwoosh" sound from your subwoofer (as will your initial 
 entrance into a tunnel) and rear speakers - incredibly deeper than you might hear in real life. 
 The actual car crashes themselves will put out much louder audio than the rest of the game, probably 
 to highlight them as the star of the show. Finally, the audio seems designed to be played along 
 with some loud music, so a personal recommendation is to create a driving or "Burnout" playlist 
 to jam along to as your ride through Paradise City.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The main pillar of Burnout Paradise' gameplay is that each intersection in the game houses a different 
 event. The five event types are: Road Rage, in which the objective is to takedown a certain number 
 of drivers before the time runs out or they total your vehicle; Race, which is pretty self explanatory; 
 Marked Man, in which the objective is to go from point A to point B while every other driver on 
 the road attempts to total your vehicle; Stunt Run, in which the objective is to complete as many 
 stunts as possible in the time limit provided to meet a score limit; and Burning Route, in which 
 the objective it to get from point A to point B in a certain amount of time. Winning an event will 
 get you a mark on your license (and possibly unlock a new vehicles, which you have to find driving 
 around and total before you can add it to your garage) and your license will be upgraded once you 
 get a certain number of marks. At each upgrade, your event map will be cleared and you'll have 
 to get a higher amount of marks to move to the next level. The five events aren't very different 
 each other, which can cause them to become more of a chore rather than a challenge after awhile, 
 which isn't helped along by the fact that the game is a tad on the easy side to begin with. This 
 also isn't helped by the fact that the game employs heavy use of "catch up" AI. In fact, in some 
 of the event types the game will purposely spawn opposing cars in front of your position should 
 you get too far ahead of the ones that you've already defeated.
  
  Essentially, there are three points where the single-player portion of Burnout Paradise shines. 
 First is the fact that you can essentially drive around the entire map for the fun of it and do 
 whatever you want to. This alone can eat up hours of your time and if you really get sucked in 
 you'll spend more time doing this than ou will actually completely the events. There's three different 
 sets of items to find while exploring: there's smashable gates which reveal shortcuts and other 
 goodies; Burnout billboards that you can smash through; and finally there are super jumps to master. 
 Memorizing these findable places are the key to winning the Stunt Run events. The second shining 
 star of Burnout Paradise is the Showtime Mode. Showtime mode can basically be described as turning 
 your car into a bouncing ball and you trying to bounce it into as many other moving vehicles as 
 possible. When you enter Showtime Mode, the game let your car loose bouncing - if your car stops 
 bouncing heavily, you can use your boost meter to make it start bouncing again and you can gain 
 more boost by smashing in to cars. The game will also place more cars on the street than it would 
 when you're just driving around normally, so you'll most of the time be able to keep your car bouncing 
 and smashing for a good four or five minutes before you run out of boost. Finally, there's the 
 Road Rage event. The objective as mentioned above is to meet the takedown target before time runs 
 out or your vehicle is totaled. You score a takedown in Burnout when you directly cause an opposing 
 vehicle to wreck. You can do this multiple ways - causing them to smash into a wall, another vehicle, 
 grinding them against a median, or even t-boning them. You get totaled if they take you down too 
 many times or you wreck too many times. Road Rage is simply non-stop chaos and you have all of 
 the city to make it happen.
  
  Other than the events and unlockables, there are drive-thrus scattered all throughout the city. 
 Driving through a repair shops will repaid all damage to your vehicle, driving through a gas station 
 will max out your boost meter, and driving through a paint shop will give your car a random new 
 look.
  
  Technical
  Burnout Paradise framerate is smooth without, especially given the number of car pieces that can 
 be flying around at any given time. When you crash your car, hundreds of pieces of metal and glass 
 will fly about and the car frame will deform and bend realistically. The game has what appear to 
 be accurate physics. Load times are short and the game uses a streaming technology that for the 
 most part is completely transparent. Finally, the game's online features are completely seamless 
 and appear to be fast and reliable.
  
  Packaging
  The packaging for Burnout Paradise is at first glance of high quality, but once you open the case 
 all of that comes unraveled. The manual is only ten pages long and not in color, so it doesn't 
 both explaining the color-coded nature of the event icons. The manual papaer itself is lightweight 
 and flimsy, easily markable and tearable. The game case itself feels light and cheap given the 
 lacking nature of the manual - there's no stiffness to keep the case from easily being bent. The 
 car design on the cover is very artitistic, yet the binding artwork leaves a lot to be desired. 
 The game logo on the binding is too small read easily from a distance and there is too much overall 
 dead space in the area. The backing of the vase has a very spots of marketing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjuredNoodle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Pros: Gorgeous graphics, cars handle differently, seamless Live function
  
  Cons: Less dramatic crashes, open world design, lack of progression, structure of Live events
 
  
  Paradise is a beautiful city. One problem though in creating a city that is too realistic is the 
 small things which your car can crash into or flip. Countless times you will be racing and a small 
 jut coming out of a building can completely ruin your race or event when you go crashing. Many 
 times you will be boosting around a corner and almost always you cannot turn sharp enough to avoid 
 a crash with an oncoming car or object. Another constant problem is going blazing fast only to 
 end up at a T-Bone intersection with no warning of it coming. I would at least like my blinker 
 to link if I'm coming up to such an intersection.
  
  The crashes are even less toned down than that of Revenge, Takedown had it perfect. Your car will 
 never go flying 40 feet into the air, usually it just goes flat right into a wall with no real 
 special effects. No crashbreaker, no aftertouch, and the camera when you takedown another car is 
 a very short scene and a lack of sense of destruction.
  
  Live. If you like to just sit around and drive without any sense of accomplishment, this game is 
 for you. The main problem is when I search for a ranked match, that is exactly what I want. I don't 
 want to freeburn. There should be no host option to start the match. The match should start automatically.
 
  
  This game was fun for the first few hours, but with a lack of structure like campaign, no crash 
 mode, not enough warning before you have to make turns, small alleys which will take you completely 
 off track from the main race, I have to give it a 7.5 This game became more frustrating than fun 
 for me, unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nod_Nolan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  I have to say I've only briefly played previous editions of the Burnout series, but the Demo forced 
 me out on release day for the full version.
  
  The only one down point of the game is right at the start. Having to wait through the intro's before 
 you can really put your finger to the right trigger and let rip.
  
  The design of the open world is masterful, you're never too far from an event, be it a race, a 
 stunt run, a marked Man. There are shortcuts, jumps and obstacle at every turn and when you do 
 crash you end up laughing at the car crashing down the road rather than getting annoyed.
  
  Online challenges give the game even more depth and you can't get a better souvenir of taking an 
 online opponent out than their angry looking mugshots.
  
  All together a brilliant game with huge amounts of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Burnout. It came along in early 00's by a developer no one knew. Now in 2008, Criterion Games 
 (Guildford based company that made Burnout) are one of the most liked companies EVER. 
  So, Burnout Paradise. It takes a new turn of free-roaming. Go anywhere in the fictional city of 
 Paradise City. There are 75 cars to collect. These can be won by, upgrading your licence, smashing 
 it or winning a random race. 
  Now the downer, your garage is a junkyard. The last time I went to a junkyard in a racing game, 
 I was buying a poor condition car in Juiced. Also, I you lose, there is NO restart option or button. 
 You MUST go back to where the race was and start again. 
  The music? Well, the theme is Guns 'N Roses, Paradise City, preety obvious.
  Overall, this is 
 a brilliant game, but not perfect, nearly though.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real gas... plain and simple. It is one of the best video games I have ever played 
 on any platform and in any genre. Wicked Crashes, fantastic stunts and engaging and challenging 
 races. The action is fast paced and heart pounding.
  
  Ok... it is more open and free than the previous games and, to me, that is what makes it so engaging. 
 The 'Gas' Stations (where you get boost) , the Repair stations and the Junkyard concept is truly 
 a nice innovation. This is by far the most creative and fun Burnout. Yes it does require that you 
 use your head a bit when racing because the course is not scripted.. meaning the winner is he who 
 learns the shortcuts and is willing to take chances. The game also sports a novel way of awarding 
 you new vehicles by having you shut them down before they are available in trashed format from 
 your junkyard. Then you have to go to a repair station to get that car fixed. The truth is, though, 
 Burnout is one of those games that has you making exclamations outloud. I had a crash the other 
 day that made me laugh out loud and really had the spectators ohhhing and ahhhing. This is a really 
 fun racing game with incredible stunts, races and metal mushing action. The metaphor is very creative. 
 One big open city with widly varying terrain where you can drive anywhere to practice your stunts 
 or engage in races. One can enter races from any traffic light depending on the vehicle that you 
 are racing. I like the new 'Marked Man' mode where you have to race across town and survive the 
 brutal assaults of your competitors. This game is a blast.
  
  I think the reason that some people are not happy is because they prefer the more scripted approach 
 of Revenge. Also I don't think Paradise has a crashbreaker mode... but I hear that the online is 
 real fun. I have not played multiplayer yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimzee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Revenge was one my favorite games for the 360. Paradise is fine, but is more racing oriented. 
 While this will appeal to some, I think that there are more than enough racing style games for 
 the 360. The game kind of reminds me of the driving component of GTA. The problem is that this 
 gets old fairly quickly. After 15 hours of gameplay I am just not that interested to put the game 
 back in the console. Without the crash mode of old, this game is ultimately just another racing 
 game to me. This game will be enjoyed by many, but if you are looking for a return to the fun of 
 crash mode online play from Revenge, look elsewhere. 
  
  The lack of a restart the race option is not as bad as it sounds. Sure, it would be nice, but is 
 not what makes the game underwhelming to me.
  
  Also the jarring noise that you are forced to hear when changing cars in the car select screen 
 really bothers me. If you are sensitive to this, make sure you change your settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I have to get this out if the way before I begin my review. This goes to the whining P****s that 
 cant believe that there isn't a crash mode. Crash mode was great part of the series and it'll be 
 missed. GET OVER IT! It shouldn't reflect the on the overall quality of the game. Now to the review. 
 
  The secret to any great game is the replay value. Can this game last a good chunk of your time? 
 This holds true for any great shooter, RPG, whatever genre you like, if it sucks the life out of 
 you, it is a great game and is worth your hard earned money. This holds true for Burnout Paradise. 
 First off the graphics are frigging unbelievable. The frame rate is fast as hell and has never 
 fallen below 60 FPS. My only gripe being is minor pop up, but that takes a keen eye to see and 
 is virtually nonexistent. Anyways the Burnout series has always been a linear affair which isn't 
 a bad thing, but after 4 games and two PSP games that formula begins to run dry. That is why I 
 love the open city style of play. And lest face it Paradise city is huge. With over 250 square 
 miles, the game will take a long time to complete in single player. And the amount of events are 
 staggering. The soundtrack sucks but I can always use customs soundtracks so it isn't a big deal. 
 But what make this game are the crashes with have made this series since Burnout 1. And all you 
 really need is to take a car and boost it into a wall to truly appreciate how awesome graphics 
 really are. Now to the multi player. The fact that there aren't any lobbies is amazing and it makes 
 the game easy to deal with. While your playing with others you can complete challenges with very 
 fun to play. Overall Burnout paradise is a great game if you can get past the lack of a crash mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Im going to start at the very beginning of the game this time. The theme tune has changed from 
 the old BP demo theme tune to a more classical rock tune, which, if you played the demo, may feel 
 a bit weird and out of place, but eventually ends up being very effective. Then you start the game. 
 A sense of DeJaVu when you start at the same junkyard with the same car and the same speech by 
 the same DJ as you do with the demo. But at least there are events just seconds outside the garage 
 as opposed to the demo in which you had to travel a couple of hundred yards to get the nearest 
 event. 
  But, when you travel past the barieers blocking you from entering the city in the demo, you start 
 to feel that the game is amazing. You can speed up and down mountains, take crazy stunts, play 
 races, crashes etc. However there is some things missing. The Aftertouch has gone so you cannot 
 get takedowns if you crash, which is supposed to increase the level of difficulty, as well as the 
 level of annoyance. Traffic Checking is in the game, although is not a big priority. Also lacking, 
 which is simply because it is free roam, is the boundries when racing. Usually when racing, you 
 get electro yellow barieers which crashing into just makes you drive along them, and save you from 
 bad crashes, this time though, the whole thing is free roam which, in effect, is good and allows 
 you to take whatever you want, but increases your chances of pointless crashes.
  Another problem lieing in the game is the fact you have to chase and takedown your recently unlock 
 car to play it. It all fine and dandy, but while you freeroam, is constantly irrates you with its 
 random appearance. But then again, it is probably easier to find than trying to find it parked 
 somewhere on the map. 
  Also, there is a no quick restart function. This can definetly put you off, especially if you went 
 the really wrong way. While it is not vital since it does not take hours to get back to the start 
 point, it can be annoying knowing that the only option is to cancel the event by stopping your 
 car, and thats recorded in your stats as losing an event. 
  The map is also painfully annoying. While it is all free roam, there is no GPS system so if you 
 want to go to a certain event, the road signs on the HUD do not even flash, let alone a line on 
 map, you can't program it in. But then again, they want you to explore at your will.
  So there you go, a lot of problems. But then when you skip to look at my score, you will realise, 
 why the hell did i give it that? Well simply because there are tons of good things. There are loads 
 of events both online and offline, as well as a normal race made, and the free roam 250 miles is 
 really good, especially speeding up mountains. There are no serious framerate issues, and the graphics 
 are as clean as ever. There are over 200 smashables including boxes, billboards, lamposts and gates, 
 loads of specatcular super jumps and shortcuts, and an overall success of a free roam game. Some 
 landmarks, towns and roads may seem familiar from other games, but there is a lot newer in this 
 game than you would ever expect. 
  So if you ever get bored of events, there is plenty of other stuff, and exploration. By far, with 
 only a few minor downsides which could improved with a future update, this Burnout is probably 
 the best burnout games to date, for any console, and whats more, probably the most explosive racers 
 to date
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------------------
  NEW REVAMPED REVIEW AT BOTTOM!!!
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Lets get one thing straight. I 
 am 100% die hard Burnout nerd. I own every game. And play them all the time. I have never really 
 had a complaint about the series.... EVER. I drool for months when I hear of a new version coming 
 out so naturally when I heard this was coming in development I already had it on my "Buy" list. 
 
  
  I seen it was open world, tons of cars, new crash modeling..... It was a dream! I mean what could 
 go wrong? Then I heard those harsh words..."No Crash Mode". WHAT? Then to make it worse a few days 
 before release I heard even more worse words "No multiplayer!". Well as in you can't play with 
 friends on the same console! Only online if they have a 360! So far this game is junk.
  
  So after playing the demo and not liking it I gave the game a rental and one more chance. The results 
 are in and as many reviews have said "Its a game that you love to hate and hate to love". Confused? 
 Well what makes burnout special is obviously its crashing and the fact you can play with your friends 
 offline and enjoy the fun of things like Crash Mode.... one of the main selling points according 
 to the makers. 
  
  So if your a fan of either of those two items you will NOT like this new version since they axed 
 those. That make it hated. But if you are still willing to give it a chance this game still has 
 major issues IMO being a nerd of the series.
  
  Graphically the game is 10x better then it use to be. You have a whole city to be in now. No longer 
 picking from races and what not. The cars make your jaw drop sometimes and so do the crashes! 
 
  
  The controls for the most part are easy. Theres not many buttons at all. Although the stunts might 
 be confusing to people since the game really has no tutorial besides a quick audio clip.
  
  The audio and music either or horrid or amazing depending on who you ask. Music wise the soundtrack 
 is bland as always. Like 10 songs are actually worth listening to out of the 100. Audio wise the 
 sound isn't that bad but its the annoying announcer that gets on your nerves after awhile. He doesn't 
 have a bod voice or anything. Its just annoying after awhile.
  
  Gameplay wise this game its self hit a wall at 100MPH! Being openworld really is a bad concept 
 for this game. Basically you can drive around and do stunts, smash signs, find shortcuts and events..... do 
 whatever you want. But this is not easy at all. Theres lots of problems that add up to make it 
 a mess.
  
  1. Your mini map is static so driving around is a pain in such a big city.
  
  2. Since nothing is named on the map, it defeats the purpose of street names! You can't look 
 at it and say "I need to turn here" because here doesn't have a name unless you are outside the 
 map.
  
  3. Speaking of maps you also can't mark your map. So if you are trying to get somewhere you constantly 
 have to bring the map up.
  
  4. Races (heck most events) now suck. If you make one wrong turn, crash... etc you could be screwed. 
 Why? Theres no restart. And since you can't go back to where you started or restart you have to 
 drive ALL the way back. And trust me this is a big city. After awhile you don't bother if you lose 
 and do whatever is near by.
  
  5. The new crash mode is fun at first but is really lame. You basically drive along. Hit RB+LB 
 and you flip your car over and start flying down the street smashing into cars. Every time you 
 hit a car you get more boost. You hit A to use it to make your car jump off the ground and move 
 it wherever you want. Basically playing "Rock Skipping", but in this you can keep the rock going 
 by hitting stuff. It sounds fun until you do it a few times and realize how "NOT" like crash mode 
 it is.
  
  6. Road Rage is fun but screwed up now. I am not sure what they did but as exciting as Road Rage 
 is they tampered with it. When you hit people into walls they cars don't smash around as cool as 
 they use to. And when you do hit them it resets on track with some new cars next to you hit. It 
 makes it feel unrealistic and silly. I know this was probably meant to keep the action going and 
 to keep you from hitting things when the camera comes back but now its no fun. 
  
  7. The AI doesn't seem as smart as before either. Such as in Road Rage. You could really have some 
 killer moments with the AI and trick it. Now its more of the same simple things.
  
  8. As you earn new licenses through the game (unlocks use of better cars) you have do events. Which 
 they let you pick the events you want to do which is fun but once you do an event to much and its 
 hard your stuck doing events you don't want to do.
  
  9. There are no replays anymore. Another fun aspect was enjoying the chaos you caused. Now you 
 can no longer show your friends or just enjoy clips of those "OMG!" moments.
  
  10. Once you get further in the game if you want to complete everything you'll be forced to play 
 events that you don't like which I think sucks. Example being Stunt events. I myself am horrible 
 at them. I try and try and try. So if I want the best license I'll have to play all those events 
 too which theres no way I can do them. You should be able to pay what your good at. Can't expect 
 everyone to master everything.
  
  There are some other negatives but I could go on and on. There are positives though. There are 
 like 70 or 80 cars to unlock. The game is online. Its better looking the before. 
  
  Overall its still fun to play for awhile but the fun goes away after the little bugs begin to set 
 in and notice them more and more eating at your mind driving you nuts in game. The crashing while 
 having improved crash effects doesn't feel better overall. Cutting out some big selling points 
 from previous games hurts an already irritating game.
  
  I recommend you rent this.... barley, you will get bored. But if you are upset about the major changes 
 I wouldn't even rent it. Send them a message that you prefer the old Burnout style.
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  ADD-ON NEW REVIEW (mostly online review)
 
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Well after my review the first time a game I was going to rent never came in so I kept Burnout.... for 
 5 weeks! It really changed my mind and made me bump it from 5.0 to 7.0 but it still doesn't mean 
 I totally love the game. Heres some added input.
  
  The single player I feel the same about for the most part. There is alot more to do then I thought. 
 Unlocking alot of cars seems to be the biggest thing that makes this game worth it. Its makes it 
 fun and challenging! But if you want to earn your final license you'll be forced to play EVERY 
 event which means if you suck at an event your screwed like me. I was bad at stunt events so I 
 cannot unlock the last license. This to me was bad design.
  
  But what really make be boost the score for this game was the online. I didn't really expect it 
 to be that good but after trying it once I was hooked and practically spent the next 5 weeks online.
 
  
  You join a server either through ranked, not ranked or Burnout mode. Which I am not sure how unranked 
 and Burnout are diffrent still. Once in people can join or quit at will, up to 10 players I believe. 
 From here its pretty open. You can just do whatever you want from go best barrel rolls, parking, 
 drifting. Or the host can start an event like having everyone meet somewhere or go jump off a certain 
 ramp on the map or maybe get 100 incomings as a team. Alternatively the host can also just start 
 races which are customizable. All this is very fun since you can still pick you cars have earned. 
 Although in online races the host can change what cars can be picked by class.
  
  Its almost uncommon NOT to use a mic and webcam. And unlike most games its actually fun to use 
 them! I would make faces every time I got takendown online! If you win a race you can pose for 
 the camera!
  
  But not everything is perfect online. Since theres no real rules people don't have to do events. 
 If for instance the hosts tells everyone to do 15 barrel rolls of ramp someone can just drive wherever 
 and not do it. Luckily a host can boot people. But if anyone leaves (or gets booted) the event 
 gets canceled and all your work was done for nothing. 
  
  Perhaps the one thing that really prevents me from totally liking this game online is the lack 
 of peoples real skill online. In races people have the option of turning traffic on or off. Well 
 lets say your racing around that giant lake and your car is a little faster then mine. Once we 
 start and lets say I crash on accident then theres no way I can catch you. Race is over at that 
 point. People will brag online about their skills even though they don't race with traffic. To 
 me they need to remove this option.
  
  Traffic is what makes it a real race. Its what makes Burnout racing fun..... dangerous..... Without 
 it its just a matter of getting in first and staying there since its easy to never crash.
  
  Other then that and the occasional idiot that will be in the room online is the best part of 
 Burnout. Having played this game for 5 weeks longer I got to enjoy it more. So much so that I was 
 going to buy if it for the fact I needed the money for GTA 4 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomster98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  What Can I say, well first off, we all know Burnout as an amazing Racing series apart from it's 
 many flaws in Burnout Dominator it's made up in the amazing Paradise - Free Roaming adventure where 
 you upgrade your permit and start to own your way around Paradise City with the Gun's n' Roses 
 song Paradise City and fight off speed demons breaking into your City space and own their cars 
 - with all your favourite game modes plus more on every streer with types of cars like Speed, Aggresion 
 etc. etc.
  
  9.5/10 Brilliant and much better than every other one a true Burnout/Racing Legend
  
  there 
 are a couple flaws as such as the overwelming size of Paradise City which is massive and the smash 
 barriers you have to break which takes time to break 400 barriers but still amazing none the less.
 
  
  like I said amazing none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villo007
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is, well, what you call, as close to perfect as your gunna get. This game flows 
 nicely with its surroundings and smoothly creates a flawless connection with car and enviorment. 
 Car on car interaction is also astounding, better yet, ground breaking. Even if you are not an 
 Old-School Burnout gamer, u can always hope on and join in some crazy blood pumping action with 
 your buddies online. EA has preformed the impossible on this one, no game has ever created such 
 a free-lance world with endless possiblites and hearth throbbing action. In not time you will know 
 the buildings and streets of the city, u will cruis it like you own it. Despite its very very very 
 ohh so small problems, (personally i like to see a speedometer) Burnout Paradise is a must buy. 
 Believe me, its worth it. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delorean529
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  I think anyone could enjoy this game unless they want the traditional Burnout. This game has bad 
 soundtrack though. So the 360 has a slight edge with the custom soundtrack. Showtime mode is extremely 
 fun combining the old crash mode with a whole city to bounce around. Some of the races are ridiculously 
 long and go to one end of the city to the other and it can get annoying because if crash and lose 
 the race your going to feel extremely frustrated.
  But you get the hang of it and start boosting your licence up. The city is really big with no loading 
 times. It will take a while to get the really fast cars but when you get them you probrobly don't 
 want the "speed" class boost which can get repetitive. This game has beautiful graphics, 60 FPS 
 and the most real-life crashes you will ever see in a game. Some of the vehicles are wacky from 
 F1 racers to a van but this game has a lot to offer. The road rage rumors aren't true because there 
 is a time limit but you can gain time by smashing all the crowds of cars that swarm around you. 
 Marked Man sports quite an enjoyable challenge whereas Burning Route isn't all that fun except 
 for the fact you get a pimped version of the specific car you need to start it. There isn't to many 
 variety of events since there is only 5. But this game is truly fun. Overall I think anyone will 
 enjoy this game for weeks on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  The star of the show is Paradise City itself. Coming complete with the titular Guns 'N Roses song 
 (because Burnout: Night Train or Burnout: Mr. Brownstone probably wouldn't have been as catchy) , 
 Paradise City is, at first blush, a pretty standard racing game city, complete with all the usual 
 landmark locations and boring background traffic. But it quickly becomes evident that Paradise 
 City is meant for a greater purpose than just being a simple city to race around in. In effect, 
 the city is a blank slate, a pristine canvas on which to paint your own obliterative masterpiece. 
 The simple act of driving aimlessly around the city constantly presents new roads, shortcuts, and 
 destructible objects for you to experience and, often, destroy. Nearly every intersection of road 
 hosts a new event of some kind, and even after you've worked your way through the game's progression 
 of driver's licenses (the only specifically linear portion of the game design) , you'll still be 
 finding new things you didn't even know were there. 
  
  That might sound a little overwhelming, especially if you've grown accustomed to the rather specific 
 brand of racing that Burnout has always subscribed to. And at first, it most definitely is. Though 
 the in-game tutorials do a decent job of explaining the event types and basic mechanics, you're 
 initially left to your own devices and only have the small minimap to guide you through the many 
 twists and turns of the city as you race -- unless of course you want to hit the pause button regularly 
 and use the larger map, which is a bit annoying to do. Those well accustomed to Burnout's previously 
 track-based racing model might find having to explore to find the best route to the finish a bit 
 frightening, but the good news is that it doesn't take a great deal of time to get a feel for the 
 city's various ins and outs. 
  
  Until that time, you will experience some trial and error (with a heavier focus on the error) , 
 but the funny thing about that is that while you may initially find yourself failing races, it's 
 not often you have to just go back and keep doing that same race again and again. The focus of 
 Burnout Paradise isn't on doing specific events so much as it is about doing whatever you feel 
 like. If you fail a race, odds are that there are roughly a dozen starting points for other races 
 near the finish line of that previous race, and unless you've done them all, you can just hit up 
 any one of them to get another notch on your license. Toward the very end of the game, when you've 
 bested the bulk of the game's events, you may find yourself lamenting the lack of a quick return 
 feature to get back to a race's starting point. But for the majority of the game, it's not really 
 an issue. 
  
  It's a strange design to get used to initially, but once you do, it becomes incredibly rewarding. 
 You can spend hours at a time just dawdling around the city and still make forward progress within 
 the game. Don't feel like racing? Just go break through shortcut gates or bust up billboards, which 
 are tallied up as you break each one. Or, track down one of the cars you unlocked on the road and 
 take it down to add it to your collection. Or, you can opt to pick a road and attempt to "own" 
 it. There are two types of events associated with each of the major roads in the game. Time trials 
 are as you'd expect -- you simply start at one end of the road and start driving down it, attempting 
 to get the fastest time you can. Secondly, there are showtime events, which are the game's effective 
 replacement for the crash mode found in previous installments of the series. Whereas crash mode 
 was sort of like a puzzle mode in the way it made you create elaborate car crashes out of painstakingly 
 built traffic designs, showtime is the polar opposite. These are elaborate car crashes born from 
 little more than a bunch of nearby cars and your ability to control what is, in essence, a sentient 
 car wreck. 
  
  In a word, showtime mode is absurd. The goal is similar to crash mode in that you're aiming to 
 create as much damage as humanly possible, with various types of cars offering up different cash 
 bonuses that feed into your final score. All the while, you can move your busted husk of a car 
 around by pressing the boost button, which causes you to bounce around like a rubber ball. Again, 
 totally absurd, but also totally awesome. It might lack the puzzling nature of the crash mode, 
 but for pure visceral thrill and laughs-a-minute wrecking, showtime mode delivers in spades. It 
 would have been nice if Criterion had found a way to have both the crash mode and showtime mode 
 coexisting, as neither would make a particularly good replacement for the other; but on its own, 
 showtime is a great deal of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NastyHeadwound
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  What they got right:
  
  -Crash animations are spectacular
  -It's burnout... nuff said.
  
  What's missing:
  
  -Ability to turn off annoying DJ
  -Aftertouch missing
  -Too many 
 inaccessible/fenced areas, Test Drive Unlimited allowed you to go pretty much anywhere (if you 
 were creative enough) . Paradise actually places invisible barriers over areas they don't want you 
 in.
  -Ability to set map waypoints and be given GPS style directions to those waypoints.
  -Better navigation/zooming on map view.
  -The "muting" effect used on the soundtrack when you 
 crash is really annoying.
  -Ability to instantly jump to a location that you've already visited, especially the junk yards!
 
  
  If they could take the fantastic gameplay elements and graphics of Burnout Paradise, add Test Drive 
 Unlimited's map/world navigation and completely unhindered access to the world, you'd have the 
 perfect driving game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Well this was one of my most anticipated games when i finally got an Xbox 360and picked out all 
 the games that i wanted and to be honest from what ive played only at class B right now its a pretty 
 fullfully and worthy game of this score for these reasons that i will show right now.
  
  Lets get on to the gameplay since there is really no story at all... your basically just crashing 
 into people and earning rep for your licence class to go up every time you win like 15 events or 
 30 or more.
  
  So when it comes to the gameplay as Alex Navarro said and i will totally miss you definetly one 
 of gamespots best ever, that once you start the game up and go oh yea this is cool..... it might 
 take you like... just 45 minutes to reajust where your sitting or get a drink or some food or lie 
 back and releax because.... you really do get overwhelmed at these places that you go to and in 
 some cases (which includes me) might just go extreamly slow at the start and then realise... oh 
 yea youe supposed to be going like 180 miles an hour and just desotry everything that gets near 
 you.
  
  Which is probably the most fun of this game is just smashing into other cars or doing the most 
 bizare crash that you could ever think of because that sheer satisfaction of watching some other 
 care go flying to the side or hitting into the back of a bus is really REALLY satisfying, which 
 also brings me to a part that i felt that this game really lacked at.... for being a free world 
 experienced game.... there is sure as hell alot of trafic that really seems to get in your way when 
 your in a race of doing marked back wether its going really fast or going through a intersection 
 then all of a sudden the line that you were going down a truck appears infront of you and you just 
 get extreamly frustrated.
  
  WHICH then brings me to another fact of this game that cordinating the streets of the city with 
 the compass or mini map really isnt that helpful at all because not only when your in a race do 
 you have to look at the road and find short cuts to go through and look to see if your about to 
 hit a car, but when your going really fast and you have to continuaslly keep looking back at the 
 mini map to see where your going BAMM!! theres a wall or a car there that you hit because you have 
 to keep switching back from looking at the mini map (which is also pretty small and diffcult to 
 see) and also pay attention of whats infront of you which can get frustrating and just make you 
 want to quit.
  
  A really neat and interesting thing to do is when you do want to start a event you go to a set 
 of street lights press down on two buttons and there your in a event, the only set back to this 
 that if you fail that event and want to try it again you have to drive all the way back and retake 
 which you shouldent do anyway because theirs probably many events already around you.
  
  A great feature to this is the online play which holds up to 8 players simutanously which is really 
 cool especially when you get into the later challenges and its a really easy quick way to actually 
 do it you just press right on the D pad select a couple of options and it dosent matter where you 
 are in the city and there you go... now you got a bunch of people around you killing you and doing 
 weird stuff lol.
  
  Alright enough about gameplay lets get into the graphics of this game (i will not get into the 
 controls because thats simple and should be easy to figure out) . When talking about graphics you 
 look at both games for the diffrent platforms and to be honest the PS3 has a slighter edge on the 
 Xbox 360 but other then that they both seem identical when it comes to the graphical style of gameplay 
 both with beautiful crashes with parts flying off or the sun setting behind the background of Paradise 
 City.
  
  The sound (when it comes to hitting walls or engines reveing) is really fantastic you actually 
 feel like your doing mean and terrible things when you hit another car or in vise versa when they 
 hit your car and you go flying across the road, NOW when it comes to the sound track.... its pretty 
 terrible... Guns N' Roses did the main theme song which pops up everytime you start the game and 
 is kinda annoying... then you just have weird songs in the game like Girlfreind from Avril Lavigne 
 which is just like..... ok.... stop... turn off done! and then you have this DJ that pops up everytime 
 to give you hints that you should already know by now or comments you on how bad you suck when 
 you lose a event and ya cant even turn him off.... if its a radio im pretty sure you can turn it 
 off.
  
  So overall other then the stupid soundtrack the annoying Dj and the impossibly hard streets to 
 naviage with cars pop up infront of you it really really is ALOT of fun to get into with your freind 
 to complete all 360 i think of challenges online, and for newcomers i think you should just wait 
 a bit and let everything releax and go to a freinds house and play it and see how it is because 
 you might be overwhelmed like i was (i only rented the game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, played it more and more. Will have to say that the game has alot more to offer than I originally 
 thought. Can't say I like or hate the racing on open roads but it not as bad as I originally thought. 
 It definitely has took some getting use to how it is layed out but the more I play the more I like 
 this game. This game after a little more playing could go as high as 9.5 on my scale, but it's 
 definitely not a 10.0. My thoughts are the game in my vantage point will probably be 9.0 after 
 I've played it enough. Easiest way to describe the game is a good over-haul to the original Burnout 
 engine. But I guess the big question is would I buy this game again or think it's worth buying. 
 And my answer is yeah, probably would buy it again and definitely worth buying. Is the game something 
 you can't live without. No.
  
  Original review and title
  
  Don't know exactly how to rate this game. Could be a 5.0 or could be 10.0, so for now I'll have 
 to say 7.5
  
  This ain't your mother's racing game. Well, let me start off by just saying this game is Burnout 
 meets Grand Theft Auto. A lot of this game gives me the feeling I'm playing GTA not Burnout. Alot 
 of the same things are in this game from the old Burnout series. I'm about half confused with this 
 game. It seems like I've done less Burnout type things (Racing, Takedowns, Crashes with cash totals) 
 than just driving around finding stuff (more GTA style) . Not sure if this is good or bad, yet.
 
  
  This racing is extremely confusing, but I'm not sure if I'm just not use to it yet. You have Street 
 signs that pop up and tell you when you suppose to turn. It's really confusing. I think it sends 
 me off course sometimes, but at this point not really sure if it's telling me wrong or I'm just 
 not making good decisions. Well, anyway it's pretty freakin confusing. You can go down any street 
 you want which at first seems pretty cool, but I swear I don't think anyone developing the game 
 actually played the game cause unless you memorize the streets you might not be able to use all 
 the side streets anyway. Way too much thinking and learning. I'd rather have something simple and 
 get in a car and drive.
  
  There lots of areas to explore and find and the general format of the game is pretty good. Racing 
 is pretty good if you can keep track of where your going. I don't like having to keep looking at 
 the mini map all the time.
  
  I'm definitely a racing game freak. I can play racing games for days on end. When I first buy a 
 racing game I can play for weeks. This is day two with Burnout Paradise and I'm already looking 
 to put something else in, but don't get me wrong I know I'm going to play this game a pretty good 
 bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headbanger1186
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me start by saying that I am a HUUUUUUGGGGGEEEE Burnout fan, and that is why it 
 really pains me to review Paradise, simply because I expected and could have given it a perfect, 
 but as some of you may know.... I am not simply because of one reason. Direction, at it's core the 
 whole concept of BP , is the freedom to do whatever you want, without the restrictions of every 
 other racer. This is simply awesome doing away with long menus and complicated interfaces, and 
 replaced with a more free and realistic blend. That is what I think that EA was trying to accomplish 
 with the formula, realism in the fact that you have no invisible barriers in real life, or bright 
 shiny arrows to point out your path. That is the only flaw that hinders the game from eternal greatness, 
 which means you find your way, and if you lose the race don't expect 
  to simply RESTART thats right drive all the way back to the starting point for the same race. There 
 are also no jumps or warps to instantly transport you to races and events you have to manually 
 drive there and begin. 
  
  
  With the hindering bad out of the way, I am not saying it is a bad game by any means, it just isn't 
 perfect. The presentation couldn't be better if it tried and the graphics set the bar for any racing 
 game to date. The arcade style control is still present and responsive which is great. Everything 
 from online to the amazing challenges you can perform, has definitely got me satisfied with my 
 purchase, and as we all know.... EA can take Underwater Chicken Fighting and make it a classic, 
 inventive, and excellent hit. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRUNKENJEDI1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game, to put it simply.. Fricking Rocks! Lots of cars to un-lock, I'll admit its a little daunting 
 at first, with the open world structure and all. But once you get into it ,you'll be hard pressed 
 to put this one down. This is a Must Buy. There are some minor quips, the DJ is annoying, The soundtrack 
 is kinda lame. But, that aside, this is a wonderful game. And in my humble opinion is the best in the 
 series. Stick with this, and you be rewarded with a great game exprience. I agree ,the demo kinda 
 stunk. You'd be a fool to miss this game, There's a lot of stuff to do in this game, lots of areas 
 to discover. The amount of content in this game is staggering, I love the fact you can't just blast 
 through the game in one sitting. My friends and I are hooked. I have the ps3 version, I hear the 360 
 has custom soundtracks. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Open-ended world and gameplay; Amazing graphics; Races and crashes are better than ever; Seamless 
 and fun online play; Excellent soundtrack.
  
  The Bad: 
  Open world means that races are a little harder; DJ and pop-up tips are annoying; Huge world can 
 be intimidating at first; No quick "retry race" or split-screen options.
  
  Burnout is one of the best arcade style racers around. Now the newest addition to the series is 
 here, and it is the best thus far. Burnout Paradise changes the formula of the series by giving 
 the player an open world to explore. Right from the start, the entire city is open for you explore. 
 
  
  Although this can be intimidating at first, especially for new players, the end result is a truly 
 unique gameplay experience. Once you played it for a few hours, you'll realize that it's the same 
 old Burnout. Just that all the "tracks" are connected now.
  
  GAMEPLAY  9
  Burnout Paradise controls nearly identical to past Burnout games, and that's a good thing. The 
 controls are easy to pick up, but allow for a great deal of strategy in your driving style.
  
  Since the entire city is open to you right from the start, you'll probably send the first hour 
 or so exploring. Races are started at street intersections. Simply pull up to the intersection 
 for the race to want to do, and smoke your tires (hold the brake and hit the gas) to start. Each 
 race has it's own start and finish lines, but how you get to the finish is up to you.
  
  The GUI shows the name of the street you're currently on, as well as cross streets as you approach 
 them. During a race, the cross streets and your car's turn signal will blink to indicate which 
 way towards the finish. This isn't always the fastest route, and you'll have to find shortcuts 
 on your own. But this feature is dynamic, so if you get off course, it will point you back in the 
 right direction. 
  
  Also new are the service stations. There are several different types that offer various benefits 
 when you drive through them. You can do this at anytime, including during a race. Gas stations 
 refill your boost meter while repair stations fix your car. Paint shops will change the color of 
 your car to a random color, and don't provide any real benefit. Junkyards let you choose what car 
 to use, but you can only use them outside of a race.
  
  Speaking of cars, there are over 70 cars in the game. Each car fits into one of three classes: 
 speed, aggression, and stunt. Speed cars are the fastest, but have a boost meter that can only 
 be used when it's completely full. Aggression cars are larger, and can take more damage during 
 a race or road rage events. Stunt cars are more balanced, and suited to doing stunts like crashes 
 and flips. Doing stunts in these cars will fill your boost meter faster. 
  
  The way new cars are added to your junkyard is also great. When you complete certain events, a 
 new car will start to appear at random in the city. When you see it, you must do a takedown on 
 it to add it to your collection for use. It's almost like a boss battle for Burnout. This is a 
 great way to make this process more interactive.
  
  As far as race types go, all the usual suspects from past Burnout games are back, but with a few 
 new additions. You have your normal race from point A to point B, and Road Rage where you're tasked 
 with taking down a set number of cars. New is the Marked Man race. This race pits you as the target, 
 and the other cars try to take you down. The crash mode is gone, but it's been replaced with Showtime. 
 Instead of having pre-set intersection crashes, you can now do a Showtime anytime you crash by 
 holding the shoulder buttons as you crash. This makes the crashes much more fun as you can do them 
 anywhere at anytime. There's also a parallel parking event where you need to use the e-brake to 
 spin and park your car at a high rate of speed.
  
  The only downside to the gameplay is that there's no split-screen play. Although this wont matter 
 for most people, it is annoying for those that loved to play Burnout with people in the same room. 
 The open-ended gameplay also poses a new problem. Since you don't start or finish a race at the 
 same location, this means having to drive all the way back to the start of the race to try again. 
 If you're trying to win a specific race, this can get very annoying.
  
  GRAPHICS  10
  Burnout Paradise is one of the best looking racers on the 360. It may not be as pretty as Forza 
 2 or PGR4, but where it really shines is in the physics. The crashes are very realistic. When you 
 crash your car, the camera changes to a slow-motion view to really show how brutal the crash is. 
 Cars crumple and deform in very realistic ways. Parts will fly off the car, but perhaps best of 
 all is the way the glass shatters.
  
  The cars have nice reflection and bloom touches. The smoke and spark effects also look very nice. 
 The backgrounds are very detailed. Objects will blur as you race past, and there's a very good 
 sense of speed in the game. Best of all, the graphics run at a constant 30fps with no dips in performance. 
 The only gripe I could come up with is that there's no day/night transitions or bad weather effects. 
 But those are very minor details.
  
  SOUND  9
  The Burnout series is known for having awesome soundtracks, and Paradise doesn't disappoint. The 
 main title screen tune is, of course, Guns 'N Roses' "Paradise City." Other artists include Alice 
 In Chains, Killswitch Engage, and many others.
  
  The sound effects are like-wise top notch stuff. Crashes sound brutal and dramatic. Each car also 
 has a unique sound to the engine and nitro boost. The downside is the radio station DJ. Yes, CRASH 
 FM is back, and just annoying as ever. The DJ serves as the in-game help and tutorial. He isn't 
 voiced very well, and when he gives you tips, the whole screen pauses while he speaks and a subtitle 
 scrolls at the bottom. This won't happen during a race, but it happens so often outside races early 
 in the game that I just turned the tips feature off.
  
  VALUE  10
  Like any modern game, the real lasting value is going to come in the form of online play. That 
 isn't to say there isn't much single player content. In fact, quite the opposite is true. Burnout 
 Paradise does an excellent job of stat tracking. The in-game map shows you all of the races and 
 service stations you've found. It also shows you what time and crash records you've set on every 
 street in the city. It's going to take you a while to find all the hidden super jumps, shortcuts, 
 and billboards. That's also a good incentive to just explore the city on your own.
  
  Once you're ready to play online, all you need to do is press the right d-pad. This easily lets 
 you see who in your friend's list is online, and makes it real easy to start races. Not only can 
 you do the usual competitive races from single-player, but also new co-op events. These events 
 task players to perform stunts and jumps together as a team. The wide variety of events online 
 means that this is going to be one game that's hard to put down for a few months.
  
  The achievements are a little on the easy side, but are a good mix between online and offline. 
 Some of the tougher ones will take you a while. Such as getting 100% in the game, or smashing all 
 the billboards in the game.
  
  Overall, Burnout Paradise is an outstanding racing game. The open world is a huge improvement to 
 the series, and gives the genre a fresh take on arcade racing. The wide variety of event types 
 and things to do mean that you'll keep coming back to this game for a long time. If you're a fan 
 of racing games, this is a must buy. Even people that normally don't get into racing games should 
 try it out. Burnout Paradise is the new bar which other arcade racers will be judged against. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciotog
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome beautiful graphics and a great sense of speed. There is a lot to do and explore 
 and you'll probably just spend the first few hour just exploring and learning the terrain. There 
 are 8 major locations; each one corresponds to a point on the compass. All the races start or end 
 at one of these locations. There are 3 types of cars: stunt, speed and aggression. Stunt cars are 
 good at stuns. Speed car can't boost until the boost meter is full and if you use the whole thing 
 in one shot you can do a burnout. Aggression cars get boost from aggression, but loose boost if 
 taken down.
  
  That being said there are a few problems. The DJ is annoying. There is no crash mode and no after 
 touch take downs. Navigation for some of the longer country races can be confusing and annoying. 
 If you miss you're turn you can get lost easily and may end up losing the race. I really wish I 
 had a road map.
  
  Despite the changes, this is still burnout. With all its crazy crashes and sense of speed. The 
 new free roaming environment is awesome and works well! Though it will take a while to figure out 
 how to get from A to B. All in all I really like this game, and I highly recommend it!!!
  
  
  UPDATE: with the release of the new content, which now includes bikes, criterion has out down 
 themselves!! add that to the facts that the game is now $30 bucks and all the content is FREE!!! 
 and to top this all off they have MORE COMING!! that makes this game truly great!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  what do you want from a racing game? high visual effects, perfect controls, smart AI, best design race 
 tracks, uo-to-date cars and upgrads or only adrenalin?
  new BURNOUT is a real burnout like burnout3; you feel real accidents and crash scenes; the gameplay 
 and the rules do not change so many; you can access the your own style in 15 minutes;
  GAMEPLAY: gameplay is smooth as previous; you can reach new style and driving forms soon in the game, control 
 assist you too to reach them; buttoms are useful at right time, when you need boost you do not want 
 to think where it is, you must force it's buttom naturely; you can do it in this game; you feel good 
 when you crashed and laugh at it; the GAMEPLAY is smooth and in the same time pro and is easy and 
 rookie; for pro sit is pro for the rest it is in the middle;
  GRAPHIC: it is so high; you can not find any bad shapes and abnormal effects in the game; the car 
 designs are so perfect and the city act real one; it is alive; the visual effects at the crash-times 
 and races, light effects, the reflex on road surfaces, buildings and streets, cares details and at 
 last the whole graphical works are in top; but smoke details and the breaks traces are not so good; reflexes 
 at the cars bodies are poor and the fire at the back of cars are not found;
  PHYSIC: it is so good, and show you the true forms and provids un-stopable actions in the game; in 
 turns and break and obviously in the crashes you can find everythings in-place;
  at last you must take it and enjoy it; it is the best in racing gener; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth99000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise hooked me from the very first time I loaded it up and saw that the Start screen 
 hits you with a wide shot of Paradise and the cool sounds of Guns 'N Roses' "Paradise City" (what 
 else?) . This is opposed to the usual Burnout fair of some sort of heavy metal remix of the original 
 Burnout theme set over shaky-cam shots of cars driving really fast.
  
  In a way that start screens sets the tone for the whole game. That isn't to say it's laid back 
 or anything, only that it generally feels very different from the usual Burnout games. I feel like 
 this game's title still kind of keeps me from falling in love with it. That is to say, on it's 
 own merits, this game is amazing, but the fact that it's called "Burnout" makes me feel like it's 
 too much of a change. It's silly of course, because Burnout 3 was already made, and let's face 
 it, that game can't be improved upon.
  
  It hits so many of the things that other open-world driving games have missed - For one, you're 
 never far from the next event. That's important. Everyone knows the worst thing in open world games 
 is having to trudge over to mission start point, But in Paradise, they're literally everywhere 
 and they never get taken away. The world is actually fun to drive around in and finding hidden 
 routes and billboards give it an actual purpose. Remember NFS Most Wanted? It was a great game, 
 but did you EVER drive around in the world? I sure as hell didn't. Like anyone else who played 
 it, I just used the menus to instantly skip to the next even I wanted to do. But not in Burnout.
 
  
  Criterion also made some great callbacks in Paradise that give the cars a lot more variety. Not 
 every car class uses the same boost mechanic. The stunt class cars have one long bar that never 
 changes that you can activate whenever you want, speed class cars follow the Burnout 2 philosophy 
 of needing the boost meter to be filled before you can boost, but can be refilled by emptying the 
 boost meter all at once without crashing, allowing for long boost chains. Finally, the aggression 
 class, used for road rage and generally pushing other cars around, have bars that are similar to 
 the stunt class, but become longer or shorter when you get a takedown on another car, and when 
 you get taken down.
  
  The soundtrack has a mix of licensed music (as usual for Burnout games since 3) , some of which 
 are from Burnout Dominator, but it also includes a lot of the old unlicensed music from Burnout 
 1 & 2 and the from the menus in Burnout 3. It's actually a pretty cool, and as long as it has Beautiful 
 Ruin, My Curse, and Block Out The World from Burnout Dominator, I'm happy.
  
  The multiplayer is great. You can drop in and out of online games in literally a couple of seconds. 
 With all the online commands mapped to the D-pad, you don't even have to access the Xbox guide 
 menu at all. While racing against other players is as fun as it always was, Burnout Paradise does 
 a great job of making the Freeburn mode fun and interesting. Freeburn lets you and 7 others basically 
 just drive around the city doing whatever you want but Paradise keeps track of each player's records 
 (i. e. longest airtime, longest drift, most takedowns) for that session so you can compete against 
 the other players to see who can control the most records at once. Freeburn also has random challenges 
 that can be activated by the host whenever he wants that involve all the players in the game working 
 together in some way. They're not usually that exciting, but it can be fun to work together and 
 to talk about how to solve a problem. The problem is that you need everyone to participate for 
 it to work, but it's inevitable that you will eventually run into people who either don't understand 
 what a challenge even is, or just don't care.
  
  In the end, this game basically comes down to one this: If you're looking for the exact same experience 
 as in the previous Burnout games, go play the previous Burnout games. But if you're looking for 
 the best open-world racing game and a fast, fantastic online racer, you can hardly do better than 
 Burnout Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSgt_Mapp
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  If you are tired of racing with no fun. Well then Burnout Paradise is the game for you. I love 
 the stunnin graphics and awesome controls. It is none stop action with smooth loading between playing 
 off line or online play. I stayed up last nite for 8hrs straight just burnin it up. It will be 
 a while before I play Call of Duty 4 again. Some of my friends are mad at me right now but this 
 is must have game to start the new year off! You will not be disappionted! Get it now This is a 
 perfect 10! Plenty of fun for everyone! The streets are nice and wide to cause some damge. The 
 jumps are awesome. The in game music is just right. I also like the fact that you get to take snap 
 shots for permit and it also upgrades as progress in the game. The online play is outstanding. 
 The load time is great! You just jump right on in. You can also take snap shots of some awesome 
 takedowns too! So you can rub it in later on. Is there in reason for me to say anymore... you will 
 need to pick it up and check it for yourself and be prepare to lose some sleep for the nite!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jervo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  As was the case with a lot of other people, I was pretty disappointed/concerned about the state 
 of the Burnout franchise when I started messing with the demo. That said, I've spent a lot of the 
 past 2 days playing it, and now I feel pretty comfortable saying that I get it.
  
  The closest analogy I can come up with is Crackdown, another open-world game. The thing about Crackdown 
 - as with Burnout Paradise - is that while there's official stuff for you to do, a great deal of 
 the game's enjoyment can be found simply by exploring the world. Crackdown had orbs for you to 
 find; Burnout has gates and billboards to smash. I've played for almost 8 hours by now and I've 
 really only done 15 actual events; I've mostly just been trying to find everything there is to 
 find - which also just so happens to be a really good way to learn all the hidden routes and shortcuts.
 
  
  It can be frustrating to not be able to immediately restart an event - something I find myself 
 doing a LOT when I play Burnout 3 - but you get over that pretty quickly, because chances are there's 
 a similar event a few blocks away from wherever you end up finishing. The only real pain is when 
 you're doing a "Burning Route", which is an event specifically tied to the car you're driving, 
 but even then, as you drive yourself back to the starting point, you get a better sense of how 
 to improve your chosen route.
  
  Visually, the game absolutely kicks a$$. The sense of speed is breathtaking, and I'm still driving 
 low-level cars. Crashes look as good as they've ever looked; they are visceral and explosive and 
 while they can slow the game's reckless pace down, they're always well-filmed.
  
  Sound-wise, I should say right off the bat that I pretty much hate everything EA Trax stands for, 
 and I hate hate HATE DJs who tell me what to do.... BUT the very first song that came on when I 
 starting playing yesterday just so happened to be my favorite song of 2007 - LCD Soundsystem's 
 "Us v Them."
  
  Another good thing to point out is that while EA has been as shameless about in-game advertising 
 as any developer out there, the signage in this game is relatively unobtrusive. It's there, to 
 be sure, but it's not nearly as oppressive as it's been in other EA games.
  
  So, yeah. I'm liking it a lot more than I'd originally anticipated; the controversial design choices 
 end up making a bit more sense when you start getting into the game's natural rhythm. It's not 
 just a driving game this time around; it's also a really slick-looking toy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twolegsbad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  I used to love Burnout. I loved it 3 back on my PS2. Then Revenge came out and I put it off because 
 the next gen was around the corner. Then Revenge came out for 360 and I put it off because it was 
 a revamp of a PS2 game and not TRUELY next gen - and Burnout "5", now Paradise had already been 
 announced so I figured I'd wait it out. Now, Paradise is here. I bought it the day it was released, 
 played it for a day, and just posted it on Ebay before writing this review. It's that unfun.
  
  The technical proficiency and the play ingredients for a great game are all there. I don't 
 disagree with the 9-range scores reviewers give it... from a technical standpoint. But I rank games 
 based on how fun they are, not that they should technically be called good.
  
  THE BIGGEST DISAPOINTMENT is that the process around the racing sucks. Don't get me wrong, the 
 racing is Burnout awesome, but everything around them sucks. An open world is great, but when moving 
 at Burnout speeds, concentrating on takedowns and not crashing, who wants to be constantly pausing 
 to look at the map and plot your next turn?
  
  Worse, you can't restart a race without driving all the way back to the starting point, so learning 
 the route so you can race it without the map is extremely tedious. If fact, you'll rarely run the 
 same race twice in a row because you don't want to have to drive back to the finish. Test Drive 
 Unlimited had it right. They managed the open world, but you could restart races and also warp 
 to a race without having to drive to the start - this solved the problems with learning the route 
 and generally resulted in more racing fun and less tedious driving to the race point.
  
  MULTIPLAYER FEATURES ARE MISSING. Again, I can't help but compare this game to TDU, where you were 
 just online as part of being in the game. TDU blew it in that it was sometimes tedious to hook 
 up with friends, but Burnout is missing that fun aspect of running into anyone anywhere anytime. 
 Of course you can "freeburn", but having to select that option takes you out of the experience 
 you are in somewhat. To be fair, the controls for getting online action are easy and fluid.
  
  The biggest problem w/ multiplayer is that local splitscreen is missing. With all the focus 
 on gaming as a social activity it is suprising to me that developers are moving us entirely online 
 and forget that we have real freinds present that sometimes might like to play to. You know, for 
 people with real live freinds.
  
  Also, Showtime just doesn't measure up to crash mode. 'Nuff said about that. One great feature 
 though, is the need to take down cars on the street in order to "get them" from your junkyard. 
 That is sweet. It would be even sweeter if it was viral, as in you could TAKE cars from other players, 
 in a virtually online world.
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE is that, as great as the racing is, the great racing only makes it all the more 
 frustrating that you can't just focus on the racing if you want to. You have to drive around, running 
 back and forth to race start points, with a tedious map (that you can't zoom in on by the way, 
 so good luck if you have a tube tv) , instead of having a good tiem with that Burnout racing (which 
 is still fantastic) . 
  
  I think I'll finally buy that copy of Revenge that I've been putting off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  The Good: Open world racing, Burnout style, seamless online integration, Showtime is awesome, graphics 
 and sound are fantastic, lots of new modes and greatly improved older ones.
  
  The Bad: It is often easy to go off course during races, Showtime isn't quite as good as good ol' 
 Crash Mode, Traffic Checking is almost non existant now, it can be a challenge to find friends 
 during online Freeburn.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Ah Burnout, the racing series that defies all others. It's the one racing series where racing and 
 custom cars aren't the focus. Instead, it's all about crashing up the joint. Well, it looks like 
 Burnout has finally taken a page from it's racing bretheran and has gone open world in Burnout 
 Paradise, the latest edtion and first of the series developed from the ground up for next gen consoles. 
 
  
  Obviously, the core crashing of the series is still in tact, and to it's best extent in Paradise. 
 The crashes are simply spectacular and are probably the best looking crashes ever in a video game. 
 This time, you are cruising around Paradise City, where there are tons of ways to explore. You 
 start out by getting a hunk of junk from the junkyard and turn it into your weapon of destruction. 
 If you have an Xbox Live Vision Camera, you can get your picture taken for your Licence, which 
 you can show off to your friends while playing online. Once you get everything set up, it's time 
 to hit the streets for some serious freeburning action.
  
  In Freeburn mode, you basically get to cruise around Paradise City and crash into stuff, start 
 Showtime mode or find hidden shortcuts and billboards to crash into. There's always something to 
 do while freeburning. To start a race, you simply have to pull up to a traffic light and pull both 
 triggers. Then, you're off. There are four basic races that you can try in Paradise. The first 
 is the Burning Lap, where you must race from point A to point B within a sertain time limit. The 
 second is your standard race, where you race against a. i. controlled opponents and try to take 
 the checkered flag, while avoiding being taken down by your opponents. The third is series favorite 
 Road Rage, where you must get as many takedowns as possable within a time limit. The last mode 
 is a new one called Marked Man. Basically, you must get from point A to point B without being taken 
 out by a. i. controlled opponents. This new mode is quite fun and is a welcome addition to the already 
 great selection of modes. 
  
  Gone is the series trademark crash mode, in favor of the new Showtime mode. Showtime isn't a required 
 part of completing ranks like crash mode was in the previous games, but that doesn't mean it's 
 not worth doing. Showtime can be activated at any time while Freeburning. Basically, when you come 
 to a busy intersection, hold both RB and LB and you will begin Showtime. It's basically the same 
 as crash mode, but this time instead of simply causing a chain reaction, you are able to 'dribble' 
 your car down busy roads to smash as many cars as possable and to build up as big a multiplyer 
 as possable. Basically, the more cars you hit, the more boost you get. The more boost you get, 
 the farther you can bounce your car and the more cars you can hit. Run out of boost, and Showtime 
 is over. Collect multiplyers by hitting busses you encounter in intersections. It is easily possable 
 to get a 10x multiplyer, but it may take some time and effort to earn. Showtime is a blast, but 
 it still doesn't beat the feel of Crash Mode from Burnout 3 and Burnout Legends.
  
  The visuals of Burnout Paradise are amazing, especially the crashes, and the sound effects are 
 fantastic as well. The soundtrack is decent (except for maybe Avril Lavine) , but this is a perfect 
 game to put those custom soundtracks to good use. 
  
  One of the most impressive new features in Paradise is the online functionality. Online play is 
 seamlessly implemented into Freeburn mode. Basically, whenever you want to play online, press right 
 on the D-Pad to pull up the online menu. From there you can send invites to friends to come and 
 Freeburn with you. Showtime can become a bit of a competition online, so it's always fun to go 
 into a friend's city and crash his party by beating his Showtime score on a street. You are also 
 able to set up challenges and make your own course to race upon with friends. The online play is 
 excellent and truely feels part of the overall Paradise experience. 
  
  There are a few shortcomings that are disappointing. While racing, it is very easy to get lost, 
 since the track isn't entirely mapped out for you. You are given an indecator on when to turn, 
 but if you are being a boosting madman, it's almost too easy to miss a turn. Traffic Checking, 
 which was introduced in Burnout Revenge, is almost nonexistant in Paradise. You can hit some cars 
 without crashing, but Traffic Check races are gone, Crashbreakers are gone and now when you hit 
 a car while racing, you crash. 
  
  Dispite these few shortcomings, Burnout Paradise is a breath of fresh air for the series. It introduses 
 some new great ideas, but several of the old favorites were thrown out with the bath water in the 
 process. If only these modes could be brought back in some kind of arcade mode, where you can play 
 more traditional style Burnout multiplayer, all would be well with the world. As it is, Burnout 
 Paradise is by far one of the best entries in the series, but loosing some of it's old modes and 
 features makes it loose some of the Burnout flavor we've grown to know and love. Still, this is 
 truely and exellent game that is the first must play game of 2008.
  
  Gameplay: Open world and seamless online features are really nice, but some of the older modes 
 are greatly missed.
  
  Graphics: The Burnout series once again sets a new benchmark for how crashes are digitalized...
 
  
  Sound: Great sound effects, and the DJ isn't nearly as annoying as he was in Burnout 3. The soundtrack 
 could have been a bit better though...
  
  Value: This is a game that you will get tons and tons of hours of enjoyment out of, so it's worth 
 the price of admission.
  
  Final Thoughts: Big trouble in Paradise... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donscrillinger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  wow this game is really nice .very fast action, crisp graphics, insane sound. ive only been playin 
 it for bout 11 hours now but im very pleased with the game so for .i notice that its like every 
 burnout put together to make one huge city .which is an good thing .cuz i always wanted it to be 
 like that .its an must have for 360 racer fans .you will not put this game down fasho. also the 
 online play is just simply phenomenal. crazy wrecks ,and if you have an xboxcam hook it up while 
 your playing and prepare to lol .this is an sick option to have .wait till you peep out what im 
 typing about .G O OOO O O OOO OO OOOOOOOOO OOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!! BUUUUUUUUUU 
 UUUUU UUUUUUUU UUUUU UUUU UUUUUUU UUUUUUU UUYYYYYYYYYYY YYYYYYYY!! THIS GGGGGG GGGGGG Game .burnout, forza 
 2, test drive, pgr4. man the 360 has to much to choose from 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  The game is really fun and i think it is the best game in the series. I give it a rating for 10 
 cos the game is excellent. Its the best game in the series. The opening of the game is quite fun. 
 You will drive around the city and have a lot of races to play. Playing online is the best cos 
 u can invite about 8 to 10 players to play with you and that's cool. All the players can drive 
 with you and can even race with you. This is a must game for racing fanatics and its worth the 
 money. However those who hasn't played any burnout games will be a bit confused as to the content 
 to the game because u will not be familiar with it. But as u play more of that game, u will really 
 like it. Another additional feature of the game is the destruction of cars. It is a bit similar 
 to NFS Prostreet. But in this game, the cars will be really damaged when hit and it also looks 
 shiny. There will be a lot of places to explore in burnout paradise. My favourite car is Corvette 
 because it looks cool and is fast. And all cars can be fast when driving. So enjoy this game! It 
 can be a blockbuster game this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polish_Dragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Once you start the game, its kind of confusing because they just throw this huge open city at you 
 with just soooo much stuff to do right from the beginning. 
  If you have XBL this is a MUST. The online play is just so addictive and amazing that it actually 
 blew me away at first. I mean you can invite up to eight friends to drive around in the same city 
 as you are, where you can just goof around, do races, challenges and a bunch of other stuff.
  
  One of the other reasons that this game is great for anyone who has not played the burnout 
 series before, is the unparalleled sense of speed AND control the game offers you. Put together 
 its really intense.
  
  Also the damage that you can inflict on the cars looks just plain amazing. If anyone has ever seen 
 those dummy car crash videos in slow motion... yea its basically like that, except shinier. 
  
  So if your in the market for a game that is just plain fun to play, id recommend picking this 
 one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  December 13th, 2007. The Burnout Paradise Demo was released on the Xbox Live Marketpalce & the 
 Playstation Network. It was here we found out (actually before, but whatever..) that the franchise 
 would be taking a HUUUUUUUUUUUUUGE leap like Need For Spped did when they made the change from 
 NFS Underground to NFS Underground 2. And now, after playing the final product, things move very 
 quickly in this city. A city with drive through body shops and absolutley no cops to be found. 
 As well, they didn't even bother to place a speedometer on your game screen. This is a place that 
 everyone can call home.
  
  On the Positive Side: There are constant challenges to be found as in wherever you go, their is 
 a challenge that you can complete. As well, the game has one of the most unique multiplayer styles 
 in any game ever.
  
  On The Negative side: Many of the pop-ups on your display are very small and it is very easy to 
 miss a challenge.
  
  Verdict: A definite buy for anybody. Now, if only Criterion Games would have gone far enough to 
 put the Guns 'N Roses into the soundtrack. Y'know "Take Me Down To The Pardise City..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. There is no doubt about it, the control and racing is better than a lot of 
 other games out there. That is why it gets an 8. It is no less than a great game. The rest of this 
 review tells how it fails to be perfect. 
  
  Since it is open world, you can drive around it whenever and wherever you want. No menus. At all. 
 There is no screen where you choose to go to races, and no screen to allow you to do other stuff. 
 This is both a blessing and a curse. To start a race, you drive up to an intersection and press 
 the brake and accelerate buttons at the same time. That is all. Easy as pie. The actual racing 
 is perfect fun. It isn't too hard, and control is second to none. So getting your car to get takedowns, 
 navigate around cars and all around drive is flawless. 
  
  But since there are no menus, there is no retry or restart options. Quitting is as easy as stopping 
 your car for 5 seconds, but restarting is out of the question. If you don't get 1st place, you 
 need to drive all the way to the intersection that the race started and retry. This get frustrating 
 and takes a lot of time. You can't just appear where you want to. You could just drive to another 
 intersection and do that event, but otherwise, your in for a long drive. 
  
  The worst part is actually during the race. Since there isn't a simple track, you race through 
 the streets of Paradise City. It is incredibly easy to accidentally take a wrong turn or miss a 
 street. Then you need to quit, and if you want to beat the race, drive all the way back. There 
 is a little meter at the top of the screen that shows how on track you are, but if you are paying 
 attention to that, you may miss the obstacle that is right in front of you. You are going very 
 fast, so it is easy to miss the signs that show to take a hard turn. The only times I've lost during 
 a race was when I went off course. It is the most frustrating thing in any racing game I've ever 
 played.
  
  That's not it. The camera is put a little low, so if you go over a small hill, you may not see 
 a small wall or something else that you later crash into. The "crash" animation is cool because 
 it shows how your car gets destroyed when you crash, but it lasts a little long to finish. It follows 
 your car getting destroyed in slo-mo, while all the other cars in the race pass you. It would have 
 been awesome to turn it off in the options, but you can't. It makes me very impatient. 
  
  When you drive around, not in a race, it is fun, and there are other events you can do, like having 
 takedowns on other cars (which I enjoy more than the actual races b/c there is no track you need 
 to follow) and crashing into things. Problems arise that involve the drive-throughs that are scattered 
 around the city. Since you have to make sure not to take too much damage (or you fail events) there 
 are shops where you drive into that heal you. They are very spread out, and when you need to heal, 
 you need to drive a while to them. There are also paint and fuel drive-throughs too, but they are 
 very unnecessary. The idea of trying to not take damage destroys most of what the series is known 
 for. It makes stress that shouldn't be there in the first place. 
  
  The graphics are the best I've ever seen in a game since everything is so detailed, and looks so 
 great. There is no slowdown, too. Amazing. There is a nice selection of songs too. Nothing outstanding, 
 but a nice soundtrack.
  
  When you first pop this in, there is a great first impression. The intro gets you excited for what 
 should have been a perfect game. I dwelled mostly on the negatives in this review, which there 
 are many, but there are also a bunch of positives. When everything is working right, and you are 
 not going off the track or anything, it is some of the best experiences in gaming. I did not mention 
 the online components b/c I don't have Xbox Live, so sorry about that. 
  
  Overall, if you like the series, you should buy this game. It adds and perfects what made the series 
 great, while introducing a slew of frustrations. If you are into racing games, you should rent 
 this. Who knows, you may love this game. Hopefully the sequel will go back to the basic menu selection, 
 but for now, this is a great game, and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xps2spazz101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the best racing game ever. Paradise City is huge, the demo was small but the actual game 
 is huge, over 250 miles of road to explore. The crashes look better than they ever have and Paradise 
 City looks great, every thing is great. The frame rate is great, it stays the same the whole time. 
 Although there were only a few things this game needed for a 10. Better customization with the 
 cars, not as in depth as a Need for Speed game or Forza Motorsport, but enough to make a car your 
 own.
  A cool feature that they added to the races is that there are now barricades or certain roads for 
 you to follow. You have street signs on the top of your screen and thats it. You can get to the 
 finish line anyway you want. I started out a race terrible and was in last place. Normally, if 
 your car wasn't fast enough you would lose no doubt it, but in Burnout Paradise you can go anyway 
 you want, and I ended up winning the race because they took the long way and I took the short way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Burnout: Paradise City is the true next gen sequel to the racing franchise. The city you explore 
 is huge and there's so much to do, you'll be playing for weeks. Let me get this out of the way, crash 
 mode has been replaced by "Showtime"
  
  This mode allows you at any time to cartwheel and roll along the road smashing other cars for points. 
 This is the only mode that i really didn't enjoy that much.
  
  Road Rage is back and more intense than ever. Standard races are also inproved. You're able to 
 go any way you want so long as you cross the finish line first.
  
  Another mode called "Marked Man" has other racers trying to run you off the road and it's one of 
 the best and most intense races. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks great with 60 fps and no pop up. Sound track is the best of the series.
 
  
  I haven't tried online yet, but i'm looking forward to trying it out.
  
  If you're a fan of Burnout or racing in general, get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtile
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. With over 250 miles of road for your inner speed demon, theres never a 
 shortage of something to do. Every intersection, and I mean EVERY intersection is an event. Even 
 if you fail one, you can start a new one, because theres bound to be one near by.
  
  Marked man, a new mode, makes the game even more intense. Being chased by big black cars who are 
 out to destroy you is just plain exhilarating . 
  
  Show time, while definitely not as awesome as crash mode, is still great in its own right. While 
 it feels too random, the huge explosions that can stretch up to miles of roadway are very satisfying. 
 
  
  The best part of the game is its online Freeburn mode. You and 7 other friends can race together, 
 pull off hundreds of different challenges, and just plain have fun. All the haters who dislike 
 Burnout's new open-world format, just try the online with your friends and I guarantee you'll have 
 fun.
  
  All in all, this game is a must-play, with amazing graphics on both systems and easy and excellent 
 online. If you're still on the fence, play the demo with your friends. The game is just like that, 
 except with 120 unique events and over 250 miles.
  
  Welcome to Paradise City. Enjoy your stay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  ------ Plus
  
  - Controls are pretty good, doesnt really differ from any other traditional racing games.
  - 
 The idea of an open world is sick. You have total freedom of going anywhere you want when you want.
 
  - Physics engine is very realistic.
  - Alot of events with freedom of paths!
  - Showtime is the equivalency of the crash mode in previous versions but a bit more exagerated. 
 Aint really a plus nor a minus.
  
  ------ Minus
  
  - To be honest, by reading other reviews, I didnt really think that the fact that you have to drive 
 back to an intersection event once you failed it do it again would effect me so much. BUT, since 
 there are so much events you'll end up failing quite a few. BUT, you can simply move on and do 
 another event and try the previous one later.
  - A bit of "bull" wrecks where you dont know why you lost your wheels! But not too many.
  
 
  Graphics
  
  ------ Plus
  
  - I havn't unlocked every single car yet, but the car style and the crash effects I have seen so 
 far are pretty sick.
  - If you have played the demo, then you know how the graphics look like. PRETTY dam good!
  
 
  Sound
  
  - Hard to say. Its pretty decent. If we compare to burnout revenge there isnt much advancements.
 
  
  Achievements
  
  - Love them. Some very easy, some medium and then some hard. Don't think ill ever get the entire 
 billboards and smashes. Dont think its even worth a try! SO MANY!
  
  Overall
  
  A MUST TRY! A must buy?! For you to judge cause in my case it is! But some of my friends have played 
 it aswell and all have different opinions about the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
